    Abstract  Up to now, there are so many CLIR systems has been researched and built. Generally, These CLIR systems are built upon some search engine to skip building a crawler, an indexer and a searcher component. By this way, these CLIR systems do not have enough documents gathered for identifying pairs of similar content documents in languages and they have to send and receive too much data to and from the search engine and web sites while processing user queries. This is a big 
disadvantage which makes the CLIR systems inefficient. In this paper, we would like to introduce a model of Cross-lingual information retrieval system for Vietnamese-English web sites which include a crawler, an indexer and a searcher and show how gathered documents are processed to efficiently identify and retrieve the similar documents in languages   Keywords  cross-lingual information retrieval, bilingual information retrieval, Vietnamese-English web sites   I  I NTRODUCTION 
 HERE are many researches on CLIR and many efficient CLIR systems had been built to support searching information in different languages. The common system architecture of CLIR is summarized as follow     4 5 6 7    Figure 1.Common architecture of current CLIR  In architecture showed in Figure 1, the Translation tool and Docs Similarity assessment are features which make CLIR systems different According to the above architect ure, whenever user search   information by using a certain CLIR system, it has to translate 
the search query into supported la nguages and sends the translated search queries to a certain Web Search Engine to get lists of document links containing some keywords of the search query in supported languages. After that, the CLIR system has to download document following the lists of document links for similarity assessing process. There are two disadvantages come from the model of the above CLIR system   The CLIR system has to send a very large number of queries to a certain Web Search Engine to get document links 
and then download them for similar assessing process. This makes the bandwidth for the CLIR system increased and slows the network   The CLIR system has to do the same tasks to process user queries regardless some similar queries has been processed. This disadvantage comes from the model that the CLIR does not have its own storage for internet gathered documents and its analyzed results. Thus, the CLIR system has to translate the query into its supported languages, send all translated queries into a certain Web Search Engine, download 
documents following the lists of links the Web Search Engine returned, identify similar documents in languages and then return them to a user every time it receives a query. In above steps, identify similar documents in languages is an important and time-consuming step. If this step repeats many times, the CLIR becomes inefficient The idea to increase the effici ent of searching document in a CLIR system is to build it as a whole entity which contains components greatly combining to process user requests. These components are also carefully designed for CLIR systems to 
resolve their problems. Besides, the CLIR system also concentrates on Vietnamese-English web sites. That means the collection of documents the CLIR system crawled for find similar or translated documents is limited in separate sites The idea of limiting the collection to find similar or translated documents in separate sites comes from many surveys on web sites in Vietnam. There are more and more institutes or enterprises in Vietnam expose themselves to everybody by using their web sites in Vietnamese and in English. Some of them; such as Peoples Committee of provinces, have a special group translating Vietnamese web 
pages in their site into English. Their web sites are really Vietnamese-English web sites II  M ODEL OF S YSTEM  Model of CLIR system in this paper works on VietnameseCross-lingual Information Retrieval Model for Vietnamese-English Web sites Dang Tuan Nguyen, Chinh Trong Nguyen Faculty of Computer Science University of Information Technology, Vietnam National University of HCMC  T 
2010 Second International Conference on Computer Modeling and Simulation 978-0-7695-3941-6/10 $26.00  2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCMS.2010.298 250 
2010 Second International Conference on Computer Modeling and Simulation 978-0-7695-3941-6/10 $26.00  2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCMS.2010.298 254 


  English web sites. A Vietnamese-English web site is defined as follow Definition 1  Given a web site W using two languages Vietnamese and English to present. Assume WP 1 p 11 p 12  p 13 p 1n is set of Ws web pages presented in Vietnamese WP 2 p 21 p 22 p 23 p 2m is set of Ws web pages presented in English. W is a Vietnamese-English web sites if for each p 2i  in WP 2 there is a p 1j in WP 1 which is a translated version of p 2i  All of web sites of Peoples Committee of province in Vietnam are bilingual web sites following definition 1 The proposal model is as follow   Figure 2.Proposal model of English-Vietnamese bilingual IR system  The system model composes four components   Web Crawler: this web crawler is similar to other web crawlers in many search engines except that it crawls only on a specified site and gets only web pages presented in Vietnamese or English. All web pages will be stored by language within their domain name in database so that they can be analyzed as in a site and in a language later   Translated Document Identifying: All of web pages of a site crawled will be processed to identify the translated pages of each page. The results will be stored in database for searching   Indexing: All of web pages crawled in all site will be indexed. There are two index systems for English pages and Vietnamese pages   Searching: Users send query to this component and then get results from it A  Web Crawler Web Crawler in the model is designed to get only web pages in specified web site as follow   Web page Loader: downloads documents at specified URL. The document can be a HTML document or somewhat it can parse  Figure 3.Web Crawler    Content and URL Parser: parses the document gotten from Web page Loader. The results are an URL list and a main content of the document   Document Checker: checks for existence of the main content in downloaded documents If the main content exists all of following step will be skip. Document checker use Rabins fingerprinting method    URL Filter: removes all URLs in different domain name, URLs to document cannot be parsed by Web page Loader, and invalid URLs   URL Checker: checks for existing URLs that are downloaded or being downloaded   Char-set detection and UTF8 conversion: detects charset of the document and converts to UTF8. All documents in proposal model are stored and processed in UTF8   Language Detection: Detects if the document is written 
251 
255 


  in Vietnamese or in English. Detecting method is based on W B. Cavnar and J. M. Trenkles Text categorization method [9 The document will be stored in Vietnamese collection or English collection under domain name of the site B  Indexing There are two collections to be indexed. They are Vietnamese collection containing all Vietnamese documents and English collection containing all English documents in all crawled web sites. Each collection has it own index system Indexing processes is based on Lucenes API library C  Searching Searching process in the proposal model differs from others in CLIR systems. It uses the result of Translated document identifying component for searching. It is designed as follow   Query Normalization   Language Detector: detects if query language is Vietnamese or English to have the appropriate analyzer because each language has different stop words, keywords. If the querys language is other than English or Vietnamese, it will be skipped   English Analyzer: removes all stop words in the English queries, extracts keywords from them and them stems keywords using Porter algorithm   Vietnamese Analyzer: removes all stop words in Vietnamese queries and extracts keywords from them using a dictionary   English Document Search: uses Lucenes API library to search on index system of English collection   Vietnamese Document Search: uses Lucenes API library to search on index system of Vietnamese collection   Result completion: completes search results. After searching by English Document Search or Vietnamese Document Search, the returned documents are all in language of query. Therefore, result completion uses the results of Similar Document Identifier stored in database to get the translated documents of returned documents   Result Format: prepares the results to show in browsers  Figure 4.Searching component III  I DENTIFICATION OF T RANSLATIONS  Translated document identifying component is designed as follow  Figure 5.Translated document Identifying component 
252 
256 


     English to Vietnamese Translator: translates all English documents in each web site into Vietnamese using Google Translation service. Google Translation service is a very good free online translation service. It is based on statistical machine translation method, so the word phrases in translated results are similar to expected word phrases Although it still has some problems in translating, it is excellent at translating abbreviations. English to Vietnamese translation process has been selected because the NLP methods applying in English are better than Vietnamese. So the results of translation are better and stored in separate place under domain name of the web site   Similar Document Identifier: identifies the similarity between Vietnamese documents and each translated document. A pair of a Vietnamese document and an English document of which the translated result has the highest similarity with the Vietnamese document will be identified as bilingual documents. Bilingual documents can be identified like this because they are in bilingual web site IV  C ONCLUSION AND F URTHER WORKS  The CLIR model proposed for Vietnamese-English web sites takes some advantages   The CLIR systems based on the model is complete systems include their own storage for documents and analyzed results so that they work more efficient than others which have to download and process documents every time users request   The model utilizes the translated results of translating groups in institutes and enterprises, especially in Peoples Committee of provinces in Vietnam   The translated document identifying method is no need to be a high precise method. Because the set of documents to identify is small and they are in a bilingual web site, the precision of the method used in this set will be higher than used in the set of all documents on Internet; even though, the method can be a plagiarism detection method. In experiment that the custom plagiarism detection for Vietnamese documents has been used for examining bilingual documents has quite good results   In the model, English documents are translated only once, and then each of them is identified if it is the translated version of some Vietnamese document. The results are stored in database for using later. This mean all documents crawled is required to translate and identif y translated version only once for all searching operation later. This is an advantage in comparison with other CLIR systems   Another advantage of the model is that the query does not have to be translated in the other language to search over two collections. Because of limitations in machine translation the searching only in collection whose language of documents are the same as language of query reduces the incorrectness in translated queries. Therefore, searching results are more accurate However, the model has some disadvantages   The results of searching will be poor in subject and small in number of results if the number of bilingual web pages in bilingual web sites is small. Although there is quite small number of bilingual web sites now in Vietnam, it is increasing because more and more institutes and enterprises in Vietnam need to introduce themselves to people in the world while they have to keep their information updated. Moreover that there are many new free, powerful, easy to use CMS supporting multilingual will encourage more institutes and enterprises establish and keep their multilingual web sites updated   The system built upon proposal model cannot identify the translated version of a document if they are in two separate web sites. This means that there are a document D 1 and a translated version of it, T 1 D 1 is in web site W 1 T 1 is in web site D 2 and there is no translated version of D 1 in W 1 In this situation, the system cannot result both D 1 and T 1 This disadvantage comes from the model which completely based on Vietnamese-English web sites The model is designed to work as Extended Boolean Search model and uses the Lucene library o r In dex e r a n d Searcher components. The system based on the model has been built for experiment and has some pretty good initial achievements such as 95% similarity identified documents are correct, 100% documents are exactly categorized into appropriate language categories After evaluating the system completely, we will extend the system model to work as Semantic Search model on Vietnamese and English queries R EFERENCES  1  Ranbeer Makin, Mikita Pandey, Prasad Pingali and Vasudeve Varma Experiments in Cross-lingual IR among Indian Languages, 2008 2  Jeanine Liileng and Stein L. Tomassen, Cross-lingual Information Retrieval by Fearture Vectors, 2007 3  Jagadeesh Hagarlamudi and A Kumaran, Cross-Lingual Information Retrieval System for Indian languages, 8 th Workshop of CLEF, 2007 4  Manoj Kumar Chinnakotla, Sagar Ranadive, Om P. Damani and Pushpak Bhattacharyya, Hindi to English and Marathi to English Cross Language Information Retrieval Evaluation, 8 th Workshop of CLEF 2007 5  Martnez-Santiago, A. Montejo-Rez, and M.A. Garca-Cumbreras SINAI at CLEF Ad-Hoc Robust Track 2007: Applying Google Search Engine for Robust Cross-Lingual Retrieval. 8 th Workshop of CLEF 2007 6  Aitao Chen, Hailing Jiang and Fredric Gey, English-Chinese CrossLanguage IR using Bilingual Dictionaries, 2001 7  Atsushi Fujii and Tetsuya Ishikawa, Japanese/English Cross-Language Information Retrieval: Exploration of Query Translation and Transliteration, 2001 8  Andrei Z. Broder, Some applications of Rabins fingerprinting method, 1993 9  W. B. Cavnar and J. M. Trenkle, N-gram-based text categorization Proceedings of SDAIR-94, 3 rd Annual Symposium on Document Analysis and Information Retrieval, 1994   http://lucene.apache.org/, 2009 
253 
257 


  5 Table 2 Focal Plane APS Chip Format 1024 x 1024 Pixel Pitch 265 m 12 QE at 810 nm 0.20 Dark Current \(pA/cm 2  Read Noise \(e pixel/frame\6 Full Well Depth \(electrons 3.88 327 10 5   A worst case background estimate was made using a 7 327 7 pixel region, which is slightly larger than the assumed spot size of 6 327 6 pixels.  For OD=0.6 and OD=1.0 exposure times of` 10ms and 30 ms, respectively, were presumed in order to prevent saturating th e camera pixels.  A worst-case sky radiance of 300 W/m 2 sr 265 m was assumed based on extrapolating reported measurements taken by the MER  at 1000 nm Thi s  corresponds t o  a scat t e ri ng angle 10 260 from the Sun The moving-difference filter used for motion detection on the WFOV camera provides a 007 2 enhancement in SNR provided the detected spot moves by at least its diameter from one image to the next.  We expect that a NeymanPearson decision rule [9 iev e a p r o b ab ility o f  detection exceeding 0.99999 a nd a probability of false alarm less than 1E-8 when adding eight acquired frames under worst case conditions Therefore with a 3.9 mm e ffective entrance aperture diameter, robust WFOV camera acquisition is expected most of the time A Satellite Orbital Analysis Program \(SOAP\[10  simulation of an orbiter at an altitude of 400 km above the Mars surface and a lander located at the equator was carried out.  The orbiter was at an inclination of 75 260 The SunMars-OT angle was found to be less than or equal to 10 260  corresponding to high scattered background\ess than 1 of the time that the orbiter is more than 10 260 above the horizon as seen from the lander Uplink Because science data containi ng high-resolution images can be voluminous, the return or uplink from the LT to the OT benefits especially from the use of an optical link To estimate the data volume per sol returned by the optical access link with incident photon fluxes shown in Figure 5 the additive background was estimated using reported measurem case background photon flux of 4.3 327 10 7 ph/s was estimated presuming, once again, a Sun scatter angle of 10 260  Even though the background will vary with Sun angle we used the worst case background to estimate data rates achievable.  A photon coun ting receiver with a photodetection efficiency of 0.1 was presumed with 3 dB of receiver implementation loss and 3 dB of link margin. The Poisson channel capacity and data throughput assuming pulse-postion modulation \(PPM was est i m at ed.  A minimum slot width of 1 ns and PPM orders from 4 to 32 were presumed. The estimated throughput for a code rate of 0.5 as a function of zenith angle is shown in Figure 6\(a a b Figure 6: \(a\ Data rate as a function of photon flux\(b fractional duration as a function of photon flux The one-month duration SOAP simulation was used to determine that the fractiona l \223contact\224 time between the orbiter and lander, defined as the fraction of time that  the orbiter is more than 10 260 above the horizon as seen from the lander, is 1.6%.  Figure 6, also generated using this simulation, shows the fraction of the contact time that the photon flux exceeds various values; for example for OD=1.0, the photon flux exceeds 10 9 ph/s approximately 50% of the time 


  6 Numerically integrating the product of the data rate and the b provides a weighted average data rate that can be used to estimate the data volume per sol.  We obtained 188 Gb/sol for OD=0.6 and 135 Gb/sol for OD=1.0.  These data volume estimates presume data exchange during all contact time;   realistically acquisition will consume some of the contact time. Assuming this does not exceed 30% of the contact time, estimated data volumes of 90-130 Gb/sol are obtained Downlink Both because of the high cost of delivering mass to the Martian surface, and because the data rate needed to send commands to the lander is low, the LT uses a substantially smaller telescope, with a clear aperture diameter of 2.2 cm The receiver on the LT will be based on simple photodiodes and with the OT transmitting 1 W of laser power \(see Table 1\nstantaneous data rates ranging from 0.05-1 Mb/s are expected 5  T RANSCEIVER P ROTOTYPING  Prototype Lander Transceiver Design The prototype LT shown in  Figure 7\(a diameter clear aperture lens with a 25 mm, 3 nm wide narrow band filter mounted in front.  A silicon complementary metal-oxide semiconductor \(CMOS\camera manufactured by Basler \(Model A601\was used as the pointing detector.  A commercial avalanche photodiode was used for the communication detector.  The LT laser is a 1060-nm fiber-coupled Lumics laser diode, coupled to a fiber Bragg grating which limits it to single-mode operation and reduces the linewidth of its output. A single-mode optical fiber patch cord delivers the laser light to the optical head, which transmits a 2 milliradian beam.  This beam divergence exceeds what eventu ally would be implemented for a Mars access link, but was adopted for prototyping so that using commercially available gimbals and components a viable yet cost-effective system design could be devised for proof-of-concept validation.  The laser transmitter can be modulated with streaming video by means of a Serial Digital Interface \(SDI\module that outputs a 270 Mb/s signal.  Alternatively, a pseudo-random bit sequence PRBS\generator at 200 Mb/s PN7 was used to modulate the laser  The optical head of the LT was mounted on a Directed Perception D46B two-axis micro-stepper motor gimbal The pointing detector read-out, processing \(centroid calculation\mbal commanding were performed using a compact PXI crate based processor running real-time LabView from National Instruments The WFOV detector in the prototype LT uses a Fujinon 1.8 mm focal length 1.4 focal ratio fisheye lens.  This commercial lens provides a field of view exceeding 2 004  steradians:  when pointed vertically upwards it is able to image a region extending from straight up to 5 degrees below horizontal.  In order to achieve spectral filtering with this lens custom re-collimation optics were integrated with the lens so that the narrow band filter was in a collimated part of the beam.   This assembly afforded only a 0.7 mm entrance aperture diameter comp ared to 3.9 mm used in our analysis in Section 4 and the optical transmission of the overall assembly was 23%, whereas we expect 50% in a Mars link \(see  Table 1 The WFOV lens introduces significant aberrations.  As a result, it was necessary to perform a calibration procedure to determine the pointing command which, when sent to the LT gimbal, would result in the LT telescope pointing at an object identified in the WF OV camera image as the OT beacon This calibration was done by setting up the lander transceiver prototype in a white half-dome, onto the interior of which we projected a laser spot.  A control loop was closed around the pointing detector and the gimbal in the prototype lander transceiver, so that the gimbal would follow any motion of the laser spot.  The spot was then moved to a range of positions on the interior of the dome and gimbal position was recorded together with the laser spot coordinates measured simultaneously in the acquisition camera. A two-dimensional fitting routine was then used to determine the coefficients in a mapping from pixel coordinates in the acquisition camera to azimuth and elevation angles in the lande r transceiver gimbal.  This procedure is detailed in  Prototype Orbiter Transceiver \(OT\  Design The prototype orbiter transceiver uses a 500 mm f/8 Tamron lens with a 6.9 cm aperture diameter as a receiving telescope.   The navigation camera and pointing detector utilize Basler Model A601 silicon CMOS cameras.  A Perkin Elmer Model C30659-1060-R8BH avalanche photodiode \(APD\he communication detector The FOV of the Navigation camera channel was 0.5 degrees.  A 100-nm bandpass filter \(700-800 nm 


  7   Figure 7  a\ransceiver comprising a wide field of view cam era and micro-stepper motorized 2-axis gimbal, with the entire assembly on a pan-tilt stage \(b ment rack that includes the laser transm itter, the real-time processor housed in a PXI crate, and data transm itting and receiving electronics    Figure 8  a\ter transceiver with a 6.9-cm aperture.  The assembly is shown mounted on a 2-axis gimbal that is mounted on a rotary stage for induced angular slewi ng. A two-axis gimbal was also used in place of the rotary stage for link testing b\ent rack that includes the laser transmitter, real-time processor housed in a PXI crate and data transmitting and receiving electronics  


  8 in front of the Navigation camera.  During testing light emitting diodes emitting within this bandpass can be set up near the LT to assist acquisition.   The pointing and communication detectors are shielded by a 3 nm wide optical narrow-band filter centered at 1060 nm A single-mode fiber-coupled 808 nm diode laser, modulated by a 50-Kb/s pseudo-random bit sequence \(PRBS\data stream was used as the OT laser transmitter serving as a data source and a beacon. The laser beamwidth transmitted from the OT was also 2 mrad for reasons similar to those discussed above for the LT The OT optical head was mounted on a Directed Perception D300 two-axis gimbal and an Optics in Motion fast steering mirror was used for fine poin ting control of the received beam.  The actuators and sensors on the OT were controlled with a compact PXI real time processor running LabView Link demonstrations were performed using the fields of view shown in Table 1. Although the link performed satisfactorily in tracking mode, link acquisition, i.e transitioning from the blind-pointing to the closed-loop tracking mode was not very robust. This was attributed to the fact that the disturbance a ssociated with the rotary base see Section 6\o emulate the angular slew rates was too severe.  Subsequent tests performed with 0.5 260 fields of view were not troubled by these problems 6  P ROTOTYPE L INK        Figure 9:  The link used with the prototype transceivers is shown by a red line on the aerial image.   The link distance is 500 m over an atmospheric path The prototype transceivers described were used for proofof-concept testing of the acce ss link acquisition, tracking and bi-directional data transfer.  The tests described were conducted on the grounds of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory JPL\in Pasadena.  JPL\222s main campus is sited on the side of a relatively steep hill, including a peak of approximately 2000 foot elevation known as the \223mesa,\224 on which we set up one transceiver of the prototype link.  Many of the buildings on the JPL campus are visible from the mesa; the roof of one of these, Building 238, was chosen as the location of the other transceiver \(see Figure 9  Setup for simulating orbiter overflight During a Mars access link pass in which the orbiter overflies the lander, the lander will likely be stationary, so the lander transceiver pointing will need to change to follow the orbiter as it passes overhead.  Moreover, the attitude of the orbiter may be fixed in inertial space, or constrained by other requirements such as the orientation of solar cells, so that it may be impractical to require the orbiting spacecraft to maintain a constant attitude with respect to the direction to the lander.  As a result, motion of the pointing control systems in both transceivers will likely be required to keep the transceivers aimed at each other   Figure 10  Prototype lander transceiver mounted on gimbal simulating motion of the orbiter transceiver     Figure 11 Prototype orbiter transceiver mounted on a second gimbal during link emulation tests  Also as a result of the relative motion, the motion-detection algorithm in the lander transceiver\222s acquisition system will be able to take advantage of the motion of the orbiter across the Martian sky  This relative motion is difficult to produce directly in a ground-based test such as the one set up at JPL.  To simulate the relative motion, the prototype lander transceiver gimbal and the prototype orbiter transceiver gimbal were each mounted on a similar gimbal, which was then driven to simulate the relative motion of orbiter and lander in an access link.  Slew rates between 0.5 to 2 Mesa Bldg 238 518 m 10-deg. Slant path 


  9 degrees/second were typically used.  These rates exceed those corresponding to access li nk conditions, but smooth lower rate slews are difficult to generate using the commercial gimbals in the prototype link  In the case of the prototype LT, the LT gimbal and the LT acquisition camera were mounted side-by-side on an aluminum plate which was then mounted on the lower gimbal.  See Figure 7\(a\est configuration is shown in Figure 8\(a  During link demonstration tests at JPL, acquisition, pointing control, and optical data transmission were demonstrated Pointing acquisition was accomp lished by first manually aiming the prototype orbiter transceiver at the prototype LT to simulate the latter\222s illumination by blind pointing of the former.  The remainder of the acquisition process was automated: the OT\222s beam wa s easily detected by the LT\222s acquisition camera, and the LT then locked onto the OT\222s beam, and illuminated the OT, which then also locked onto the beam it received.  Figure 12 shows azimuth \(a\and elevation \(b\motion of the LT gimbal, as it moves to track out simulated orbiter transceiver motion, introduced by the lower gimbal on which the LT gimbal and acquisition camera are mounted.  Figure 12\(c\he simulated motion of the orbiter transceiver as seen by the LT  WFOV camera  Figure 13 shows the tracking errors recorded in the LT, with 1\b errors of 125 265 rad and 118 265 rad in the x \(azimuth y \(elevation\degrees of freedom, respectively. Figure 14 shows similar performance histograms for the OT, showing somewhat better performance than in the lander transceiver Pointing performance at both ends was sufficiently good to achieve reliable communication with 1 mrad beams although the beams used in the demonstration had widths of 2 mrad.  In particular, these pointing errors would result in pointing loss less than the 3.5 dB allocation 99 % of the time in the transmission from the OT to the LT, and 96.5 of the time in the reverse transmission; consequently pointing errors would result in only a slight reduction in link capacity  During the link demonstration tests we demonstrated data transmission in all of the supported data transfer modes 200 Mb/s\m the LT to the OT, and low-rate PRBS \(50 Kb/s from the OT to the LT   Figure 12  a\ Azimuth axis motion of LT gimbal \(b Elevation axis motion of LT gimbal \(c\ Centroid of OT beacon moving on the WFOV camera    a Angular-travel of base Acquisition Angular-travel of base Acquisition  b Angular-travel of base Acquisition Angular-travel of base Acquisition  c Wide-Angle Camera Record of OT laser spot motion Stray points were random noise prior to acquisition Wide-Angle Camera Record of OT laser spot motion Stray points were random noise prior to acquisition 


  10  Figure 13:  Prototype lander transceiver tracking errors 7  C ONCLUSION  An optical access link would be id eally suited to the task of returning high-rate digital data containing high-resolution images from the surface of Mars to a relay satellite in orbit around Mars.  In such an access link, the range is sufficiently small that only moderately high precision pointing is needed, so that the pointing control systems could be made relatively simple, light, and inexpensive.  We have constructed a prototype of such a system, which uses only a motorized gimbal for pointing control in the lander transceiver, and a motorized gi mbal together with a fine steering mirror in the orbiter transceiver.  Using these prototypes, we have demonstrated sub-milliradian pointing performance, and the transmi ssion of digitized streaming video at a data rate of 270 Mb/s.  Key ongoing developments include making the initial blind-pointing more reliable and building a larger entrance aperture diameter WFOV camera.  We also plan to identify space qualified parts that could be used in future transceiver designs     Figure 14  Prototype orbiter transceiver pointing errors   A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration The authors gratefully acknowledge contributions by Kevin Birnbaum, Jeffrey Charles, Carlos Esproles, Malcolm Wright, Vachik Garkanian, and David Zhu towa rd development and testing of components and support during link emulations  R EFERENCES   C. D. Edwards Jr R DePaula 223Key  Telecommunications technologies for increasing data return for future Mars explor ation, \223 Acta Astronautica 61, 131-138, 2007 Tracking Performance Tracking Performance  Tracking Performance Tracking Performance  Tracking Performance Tracking Performance   


  11  D. S. C o l burn et al  Diurnal Variations in Optical Depth at Mars ICARUS, 79, 159-189 \(1989  3 m o n M. J W o lf f   M D   Sm ith  R T Clancy, D. Banfield, G. A. Landis, A. Ghosh, P. H. Smith N. Spanovich, B. Whitney, R. Greeley, S. Thompson, J. F Bell III, W. W. Squyres, \223 Atmospheric Imaging Results from the Mars Exploration Rovers: Spirit and Opportunity 223 Science, Vol. 306, 1753-1756, 2004   Xi aol i Sun, Gregory A. Neum ann, Jam e s B  Abshi r e and Maria T. Zuber, \223.Mars 1064 nm spectral radiance measurements determined from the receiver noise response of the Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter , \223 Applied Optics Vol 45, No. 17, pg. 3960-3971, 2006  J. Anni s, \223The At m o sphere of M a rs and Opt i cal  Communication, \223 TDA Progress report 42-91, JulySeptember 1987 http://tmo.jpl.nasa.gov/pr ogress_report/42-91/91M.PDF    A.E. Lowm an, J. L St auder 223St r ay  l i ght  l e ssons learned from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter\222s Optical Navigation Camera, \223 Pro ceedings SPIE, Optical Systems Degradation, Contamination, and Stray Light Effects, Measurements, and Control {Ed. Philip T. Chen John C. Fleming, Michael G. Dittm pp 240-248, 2004   G. Ti nnet i V. S. M eadows, D. C r i s p, W Fong T Vellusamy, H. Snively, \223D isk-Averaged Synthetic Spectra of Mars, \223 Astrobiology, V. 5, #4, 461-482 2005     Kjart a n M Ki nch, Jascha Sohl Di c kst e i n  Jam e s F Bell III, R. Johnson, Walter Goetz and Geoffrey A Landis, \223Dust Deposition on the Mars Exploration Rover Panoramic Camera \(Pancam of Geophysical Research, Vol 112 E06S03 doi:10.1029/2006JE002807, 2007  9] Gregory R. Osche, \223Op tical Detection Theory for Laser Applications, \223 Wiley Series in Pure and Applied Optics [Ed. Bahaa E. A. Sale 58, 2002   John C oggi Jam e s Paget M a n Phan, Davi d Stodden, Satellite Orit Analysis Program \(SOAP Version 12.11.02 Beta, The Aersospace Corporation Copyright 1989-2006   B Moision and J. Ham k ins, \223Deep-Space Optical Communications Downlink Budget: Modulation and Coding, \223 IPN Progress Report 42-154, August 15, 2003 http://tmo.jpl.nasa.gov/progress_report/42-154/154K.pdf   Joseph M  Koval i k*, Abhi ji t  B i swas  Jeffrey R Charles, Malcolm Wright, Kevin Birnbaum, Martin Regehr, Vachik Garkanian, \223Autonomous access links using laser communications, \223 Proceedings of  SPIE Volume 7199, Free-Space Laser Communication Technologies, [Ed. H. Hemmati In Press B IOGRAPHIES  Martin Regehr is a senior engineer at JPL At JPL, he has participated in the construction of several SIM testbeds worked on the Formation Control Testbed and has assisted with optical communications development. He holds a BASc from the University of Toronto and a Ph.D. from Caltech Joseph Kovalik received his B.Sc. in physics from the California Institute of Technology and his PhD in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has designed, built and implemented optical communications and metrology systems both at JPL and other national labs. This includes experience with acquisition and tracking of moving objects in order to establish communications links and perform ranging measurements  Abhijit Biswas is  senior engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory working on optical communications for the past 11 years He has a bachelors degree in Metallurgical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur and a Ph. D. in Molecular Science from Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL  


  12  


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





