  1 Recent Improvements in JPL\222s Mission Formulation Process Charles J. Leising, Brent Sherwood, Dr. Mark Adler, Dr. Randii R. Wessen, Dr. Firouz M. Naderi Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA 91109 818-354-8116 Charles.j.leising@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory has introduced a number of improve ments to help Pre-Phase A concept, proposal, and project teams develop and plan missions that have high science value and are implementable for their committed costs 12 These new measures include 
200  Pre-Phase A Life Cycle: detailed Life-Cycle templates map out sub-phases, gates, and reviews for competed and assigned missions 
200  Concept Maturity Levels: consistent approach measures maturity of mission and instrument concepts 200  Cost Risk Subfactors: algor ithm estimates appropriate cost reserve posture very early, based on influence coefficients extracted from recent flight projects 200  Cost and Schedule Profile Rules of Thumb: guidelines establish schedule and cost profiles as a function of mission class, based on historical data 200  Formulation Support Team: institutional experts join all pre-projects to assure tailored support 200  Pre-Project Principles & Pr actices: detailed guidelines clarify concept development expectations in each lifecycle sub-phase 200  Frontline web portal: provides on-line access to current 
information, templates, and standards for study teams proposal teams and pre-projects 
200  Mission Development Workshop: week-long class provides in-depth discussion of techniques for concept development, competition and proposal preparation cost estimating, and early formulation planning 200  Senior management attention: new position of JPL Associate Director for Project Formulation and Strategy coordinates Lab-wide policy through a new Office of Strategic Planning and Project Formulation These measures have noticeably improved the quality consistency, and efficiency of mission concepts, reviews and proposals. Reaction by JPL implementers, program managers and sponsors has been favorable   1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10/$25.00 \2512010 IEEE 
2 IEEEAC paper#1318, Vers ion 1, Updated 2009:10:30 T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  P RE P HASE A  P ROJECT L IFE C YCLES 2  3  C ONCEPT M ATURITY L EVELS CML\ ............................ 3  4  C OST R 
ISK S UBFACTORS 4  5  C OST AND S CHEDULE P ROFILE R ULES OF T HUMB 6  6  F ORMULATION S UPPORT T EAM 6  7  P RE P ROJECT P RINCIPLES  AND P RACTICES  P4\ ............ 6  8  F 
RONTLINE  W EB PORTAL 7  9  M ISSION D EVELOPMENT W ORKSHOP 7  10  O RGANIZATIONAL F OCUS 9  11  C ONCLUSIONS 10  A CKNOWLEDGMENT 11  R EFERENCES  11  B IOGRAPHIES 
 11   1  I NTRODUCTION  Over recent decades, NASA has developed, refined, and documented processes to guide project implementation and the design of spacecraft, science payloads, and mission operations. However, there has not been a commensurate effort to define the Pre-Phase A concept development that leads to these projects in the first place. This is a serious shortcoming since success in meeting project performance cost, and schedule commitments often depends on the completeness and robustness of the engineering and management concept. The shortcoming becomes more critical as NASA science mi ssions face increasingly tough technical challenges, tighter bu dgets, and fewer new starts Mission sponsors believe a primary cause of project overrun 
is unwarranted optimism by project proposers. Indeed such optimism occurs naturally, because concepts cannot be developed sufficiently by the time they are estimated and proposed to uncover the lessons that will be learned later JPL concluded that standards for measuring and communicating concept maturity \226 and for evaluating implementation complexity and risk \226 were needed to overcome this dilemma Largely to address the challe nge of really \223knowing what we are proposing,\224 JPL stra tegically improved its PrePhase A processes, tools and in frastructure. Several of the changes are modeled on the last decade\222s success improving institutional support to flight projects [1 is p a per describes nine improvements in three categories four new 


CML tied to a life cycle milestone CML that occurs between life cycle milestones N A S A  M i l e s t o n e s    D e c i s i o n  P o i n t s Major Project Gates Reviews AO release Project Selection Draft AO Down Select Project Phase Step 2 Proposal Concept Development Phase B Preliminary Design Technology Completion Advanced Studies AO D r i v e n  Pr o j e c t s PMSR Portfolio Gate Concept Review Baseline Commitment Review/Gate Step 1 Proposal Implementation Risk Review Step 1 Proposal PDR KDP-C Cost Preview Proposal Reviews PIs identify mission concepts CML Commitment Gate/Proposal Submitted Step 2 Initiate Pre-Project Acquisition Strategy Meeting SRR  MDR KDP-B Science Definition Team Instrument AO Science Advisory Group N A S A  M i l e s t o n e s    D e c i s i o n  P o i n t s As s i g n e d  Pr o j e c t s KDP-C PDR Major Project Milestones Reviews Phase A Concept & Technology Development Advanced Studies Project Phase Phase B Preliminary Design Technology Completion CML KDP-A MCR Pre-Phase A Concept Development Mission Study Report   2 tools Pre-Phase A Project Life Cycles, Concept Maturity Levels, Cost-Risk Subfactors, Cost and Schedule Profile Rules of Thumb four new information resources  Formulation Team Pre-Project Principles & Practices  Frontline web portal, Mission Development Workshop and new institutional coordination at the highest level of the Laboratory \(Associate Director position supported by an executive office Note JPL simultaneously renovated its support to science Principal Investigators \(PI\aged in competitive proposals, including techniques for investment coordination capture planning, proposal development, and staged review These tools and resources are described in a companion paper available to PIs who partner with JPL 2  P RE P HASE A  P ROJECT L IFE C YCLES  Although NASA\222s Project Life Cycle extends back into PrePhase A, the authors concluded the Pre-Phase A segment lacked sufficient detail to gui de advanced study teams or proposal teams during concept development. We defined the Pre-Phase A Life Cycles and missing details for two types of projects: \223competed\224 proj ects selected through NASA Announcements of Opportunity \(AO\; and \223assigned\224 projects selected by NASA HQ without formal competition These two lifecycle templates marry up to NASA\222s Project Life Cycle but capture salient differences in how the two project types originate. Figure 1 shows both lifecycles highlighting sub-phases, approval gates, and reviews Assessments from ongoing usage continue to cause refinement of the details Both lifecycles begin with an Advanced Studies sub-phase New concepts are typically conceived during this period The duration of this sub-phase varies from several months to a number of years. The focus is on defining science and mission objectives, validating critical technology conducting trade studies and iden tifying at least one feasible implementation approach. Early development is usually done by a core team led by a scientist \(e.g., PI, JPL scientist or Science Advisory Group representative\ and mission architect, supported by mission design, system engineering and key specialties For AO-driven studies a Concept Review is scheduled far in advance of any upcoming solicitation to evaluate candidate mission concepts for science value, implementation risk cost range, and the trades that exist among these three attributes. The long lead tim e is possible because NASA mission Announcements of Opportunity are scheduled predictably, and generally include science scope following well known recommendations by external science advisory boards. The proposing Program Office formulates a portfolio of mutually competing proposals that balances responsiveness to the science community with available institutional resources. Portfolios may range from just a few mission concepts to over a dozen. Funds and human capital are applied to evolve the concep ts toward parity for the next stage  Figure 1 \226 JPL Pre-A Project Life Cycles blend seamlessly in to the standard NASA Project Life Cycle after providing structure for the high-leverage early stage s of concept definition. AO Driven Projects Life Cycl e \(upper\tailored to support PIs aiming for competitive mission award. Assigned Projects Life Cycle \(lower builds flexibility into the scope-cost-risk position prior to KDP-A. \(See Section 3 for explanation of CML notation  1 2 2 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 1 1 2 2 4 4 5 5 7 7 6 6 8 8 CSR Submitted 4 3 3 Site Visit 3 1 4 3 


  3 Still some months before NASA releases the draft AO, the teams expand the trade space, perform broad tradeoff analyses and select their pref erred design points. A Cost Preview examines cost drivers, modeling idiosyncrasies and preliminary cost projections and then recommends fundamental scope adjustments to maximize the probability that the ultimate proposed co st will match an acceptable risk posture. The Concept Development sub-phase of the Life Cycle begins and the selected design point is further refined Once the draft AO is released the formal bid portion of the Life Cycle begins, which then extends throughout the Step 1 Proposal sub-phase. The Step 2 competition and the period following selection through Preliminary Mission System Review \(PMSR\ comprise the equivalent of Phase A. After PMSR, the lifecycle transitions into the NASA Project Life Cycle For assigned projects the Con cept Development sub-phase begins when NASA approves and funds a Pre-Project Results are typically documented in a Mission Study Report. After MCR and KDP-A \(i.e., the beginning of Phase A\e project follows the NASA Project Life Cycle 3  C ONCEPT M ATURITY L EVELS CML Until now there was no NASA standard for measuring or rigorously comparing the state of maturity or completeness of concepts during the critical early stages of development This deficiency hampered validation of key concept characteristics such as the thoroughness of underlying trades, or the consistency of science, technical, and programmatic baseline assumptions. Thus, sponsors have been unable to assess the ap propriateness of individual concepts for consideration at various sub-phases of the formulation life cycle, and have not been able to consistently determine readiness to proceed through lifecycle gates, or understand and communicate uncertainties in cost and risk One example of this deficiency is highlighted by the Decadal Survey process, in which the National Research Council \(NRC\must sift through and prioritize hundreds of concepts submitted by the science community. Because the NRC\222s findings are among the highest-leverage, longestlived decisions in space sc ience, the community could benefit from a systematic way to compare alternatives In response, JPL conceived and introduced a simple Concept Maturity Levels \(CML\alogous \226 but orthogonal \226 to the Technology Readiness Scale \(TRL already widely used throughout the aerospace industry Figure 2\We defined the seven-level scheme illustrated in Figure 3. Definition and use of the CML scale are discussed in detail in [2 at fo llows i s a su mmary Inchoate concepts are judged to be at CML 1, the \223cocktail napkin\224 stage. Science and mission objectives are broadly defined, as are high-level descriptions of a mission approach, notional spacecraft design, payload, and launch vehicle class. Anticipated scientific, engineering, and technology challenges are documented  Figure 2 \226 Familiar TRL scale provided the model for an analogous tool applicable to concept maturity  Figure 3 - CML scale for measuring concept maturity is orthogonal to TRL \226 mature concepts can be based on immature technologies, and vice versa CML 1 CML 2 CML 3 CML 4 CML 5 CML 6 Cocktail Napkin Initial Feasibility Trade Space Preferred Design Point within Trade Space Concept Baseline Initial Design F=ma CML 7 Prelim Integrated B/L CML 1 CML 2 CML 3 CML 4 CML 5 CML 6 Cocktail Napkin Initial Feasibility Trade Space Preferred Design Point within Trade Space Concept Baseline Initial Design F=ma CML 7 Prelim Integrated B/L 


  4 To reach CML 2, calculations are performed to demonstrate that the concept is feasible \(i.e., that at least one way of accomplishing the mission \223closes\224\without \223violating the laws of physics.\224 Estimated cost must fall within the desired range. An initial reference design allows this assessment The next level of maturity, CML 3, is achieved by defining exploring and characterizing a broad trade space around the reference design point. Alternative mission architectures and system designs are identified and compared in terms of science return, performan ce, cost, and risk. Most importantly, the sensitivity of the concept to key technical and programmatic parameters is revealed. At CML 3 the science leadership, potential sponsors, and potential implementers all have enough information to iterate mission scope and support flexible planning CML 4 requires that a preferred concept design point be selected from within the trade space and further defined Mass, performance and cost are refined and integrated to subsystem level by a multi-disciplinary team, e.g., the concurrent engineering environment of Team X After the implementation approach reaches a level of definition appropriate for extern al peer review \(i.e., for a Step 1 proposal or Mission Concept Review\t is considered to be at CML 5. This includes identification of partners, submittal of Technology Assistance Agreements and reconciliation of multi-techni que estimates of cost and schedule reviewed by responsible implementers By the time CML 6 is achieved an integrated draft baseline has been generated and validated. This baseline includes descriptions of the science, instruments, mission design system and subsystem design, ground system design operations timelines, technology demonstration plans, and all programmatic implementation aspects. It is validated by extensive and detailed implementation risk reviews completed technology demonstrations, thousand-line integrated master schedules, grass-roots and independent cost estimates. The result is fidelity appropriate for a Step 2 Concept Study Report After additional planning and engineering work have been completed the draft baseline is upgraded to a preliminary baseline with coordinated costs, schedules and requirements. At this point the maturity is considered to be at CML 7.  Projects should be at this level of maturity at the Mission/System Design Review. If the review is successful the \223concept\224 is seamlessly ingested into the project implementation world, accompanied by a complete pedigree: how it originated, what changed as it evolved how sensitive its objectives are to controllable parameters how its estimates of cost and risk were developed, and how extensively they have been challenged For completeness, we define two additional levels: CML 8 and 9, which correspond to existing maturity-level criteria already well-defined for the Pr eliminary Design Review at the end of Phase B and the Critical Design Review midway through Phase C The CML scale is a language enabling a better understanding of the history, maturity, underlying assumptions and potential defi ciencies associated with concepts during the development cycle. But the descriptions provided above are brief and leave much open to interpretation. To help teams get the full benefit of this tool we expanded the definitions for each level along 23 discrete engineering and management dimensions that have proved important on multiple, recent JP L flight projects \(Figure 4 We concluded that we could produce better, more implementable concepts by increasing attention to these engineering and management elements as they evolve throughout the concept development life cycle Descriptions of the expected maturity for each of the 23 elements are captured in assessment matrices generated for key gates in the Pre-Phase A Project Life Cycle. JPL uses these matrices in a tabletop setting to identify areas that need to be bolstered as the te am prepares for major lifecycle milest  The e xpe ct ed  mapping of CML to lifecycle gates is shown in Figure 1; triangles indicate direct alignment with formal life cycle milestones 4  C OST R ISK S UBFACTORS  Early in the life cycle one of the most challenging 223unknowables\224 is establishing an adequate cost reserve position. Experience shows that major cost impacts often arise from hardware, software, or test anomalies emergent in Phase D \226 how can these be an ticipated at the time the mission is being initially scoped, when so little has been invested in detailed engineering design? Fortunately JPL has implemented enough space scien ce flight projects by this point to discern some trends To help establish preliminary reserve levels during this early portion of the life cycle we analyzed the cost performance of thirteen JPL projects over the last decade. We interviewed the project managers and staff of the thirteen projects and looked at financial records to identify cost growth above the estimates ma de early in the life cycle Contributions due to external factors not under the control of the project manager \(e.g., delay in launch vehicle availability\were removed and root causes for any remaining internal cost growth were identified. Root causes were grouped into risk factors, such as \223mission complexity\224, and further broken down into two or more subfactors that could be easily identified prior to the start of a project. An example of a risk subfactor would be \223mission with multiple flight elements\224. Statistical analyses were then used to correlate the existence of one or more subfactors with cost growth. The resulting correlations were then verified against a second set of missions JPL concepts advancing to CML 4 now use the Cost-Risk Subfactors algorithm \(Figure 5 as one technique to estimate 


  5 appropriate cost reserves. Con cept teams plan a 20% reserve to cover \223unknown unknowns.\224 Five additional percent are allocated for each pr imary risk subfactor, identified in red and with \(P\n the figure, and two percent are added for each secondary subfactor. For example, assume a concept has multiple flight elements \(e.g., cruise stage plus lander\a mission critical instrument with TRL < 5, and multiple programmatic interfaces \(e.g another NASA center, ESA and DOE\ut no other risk factors. Such a concept should assume cost reserves of 20 + 5\(1\ + 2\(1 + 1\ = 29   Figure 4 - Fourteen engineering and nine management elements provide the basis for deta iled, consistent assessment of CML. Concepts are assessed according to a preponde rance of the levels they have achieved across all 23 dimensions   Figure 5 \226 Cost-Risk Subfactors, derived fr om the prior decade\222s JPL flight proj ect experience, yield an algorithm for consistent, very early projection of appropriate cost reserves Engineering Elements 225 Mission Objectives & Requirements 225 Mission Design 225 Spacecraft System Design 225 Ground System Design 225 Technical Risk Assessment Mitigation 225 Technology Maturity 225 Inheritance 225 Master Equipment List 225 Technical Margins 225 Trade Space 225 Mission Assurance Approach 225 Modeling & Simulation Approach 225 Launch Vehicle Options 225 Planetary Protection Approach Management Elements 225 Acquisition Approach 225 Project Organization 225 Schedules & Margins 225 Cost, Cost Risks & Reserves 225 Implementation Plans 225 Subsystem Make-Buy 225 Work Breakdown Structure 225 Testbeds, Models & Spares 225 Coordinated Cost, Schedule & Scope COST RISK SUBFACTORS COST RISK SUBFACTORS MISSION COMPLEXITY SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE 1. Mission with multiple flight elements \(P 1. New system architecture \(P 2. Mission with multiple objectives 2. System architecture applied to new environment and technology 3. Precision lander mission 3. Level 1 Requirements not well defined in formulation phase \(P 4. Operation in harsh environments \(P 4. System with many ACS modes SIGNIFICANT TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT 5. System with many deployments 1. Mission enabling spacecraft technology with TRL<5 \(P 6. Excessive reliability requirements \(P 2. Mission critical instrument technology with TRL<5 7.Pointing control stability requirements beyond state of art 3. Lack of fallback option for mission critical technology CONTRACTOR CAPABILITIES MATCH 4. Multiple interfaces affected by mission critical technology 1. Contractor inexperienced in mission application \(P NEW SOFTWARE OR UNVALIDATED SOFTWARE INHERITANCE 2. Foreign Partner delivering hardware that is mission critical or on critical path 1. New software architecture 3. Not enough experienced personnel available 2. New fault protection PROGRAMMATIC /COST &SCHEDULE MARGIN 3. New software team 1. Less then 12-month Phase A/B 4. Undocumented software inheritance without the same development team 2. Less than 30-month Phase C/D TECHNICAL MARGINS 3. Schedule margins below guidelines \(P 1. New design with multiple parameters not meeting the margin requirements specified in the design principles \(P 4. Multiple programmatic interfaces 2. Inherited hardware with any single technical parameter not meeting the technical margin requirements specified in the design principles MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION 1. Inadequate team and management experience \(P 2. Insufficient workforce 3. Risk mitigation plan not completed during formulation phase 4. Selection of science instruments late in phase B \(P P\= Primary risk subfactors All others \(S\ = Secondary risk subfactors.  Required budget reserve % = 20% + 5\(number of P's\% + 2\(number of S's 


  6  Figure 6 \226 Cost and Schedule Rules of Thumb provide ea rly-CML teams a quick way to benchmark their assumed project resource profiles 5  C OST AND S CHEDULE  P ROFILE R ULES OF T HUMB  Our teams are routinely ch allenged during concept development to estimate adequate cost and schedule profiles for Phases A through D. Ba sed on two decades of JPL missions, we developed metrics categorized by mission class to provide quick benchmarks \(Figure 6\. They are embedded in Team X and are widely used by Pre-Phase A teams to confirm that their cost and schedule profiles are \223in family.\224 For example, a planetary mission with development cost between $250 - 1000 M would typically use 8 - 12 months and 3 - 5% of its total development budget to complete Phase A 6  F ORMULATION S UPPORT T EAM  When a study or proposal team reaches Step 2 or is designated as a pre-projec t, they are assigned an institutionally funded representative from the Formulation Support Team to help them interpret NASA and JPL requirements and to assist them get off to a quick and effective start. Process support includes the following 200  Planning documents and templates 200  Life cycle review criteria and agenda 200  EVM and WBS tailoring 200  Pre-Project Principles and Practices 200  Flight Project Practices, Design Principles and NPR 7120.5 200  Gate product list 200  Cost and schedule \223rules of thumb\224 200  Cost risk subfactors 200  Schedule analysis 200  Concept maturity assessments 200  Requirements \223PIT Session\224 process and document architecture The Formulation Support Team comprises senior engineers with experience in management and one or more technical disciplines. They attend proposal, pre-project or project team weekly staff meetings a nd help formulate plans that address project-unique requir ements. They also provide an  additional communications channel to upper management if needed The team is organized and deployed following the model of JPL\222s Project Support Team, used successfully for several years to assist flight projects. The two institutional support teams share personnel to assure cross-pollination between formulation and implementation and to help project teams transition seamlessly into implementation Projects recently supported include Juno GRAIL NuStar  DESDynI, MSO, ST-9, and Urey 7  P RE P ROJECT P RINCIPLES  AND P RACTICES  P4 The CML scale discussed earlier provides a metric for measuring maturity but it does not address whether the concept has sufficient design margin or flexibility to survive 


  7 the requirements growth, development problems and performance shortfalls that ar e typically encountered during implementation. In order to characterize a concept\222s 223robustness\224 we needed to identify some additional quantitative criteria. Questions that needed to be addressed included: \(1\w much scien ce margin is appropriate at CML 3? \(2\How is the value of inheritance quantified at CML 4? \(3\How much reserve is needed at CML 5 In 2001, JPL first issued the Flight Project Practices FPP and Design Principles DP im p r o v e in stitu tion a l  consistency in implementing science mission flight projects The project community has derived high value from these documented guidelines. We concluded that advanced study and proposal teams need anal ogous guidelines tailored to the type of design decisions they make throughout early CML. Adequate and reasonable standards for the conduct of early formulation work could reduce downstream situations where flight projects find themselves attempting to implement insufficiently defined or weakly-traded mission concepts arising from ambitious studies or proposals Thus JPL created the Pre-Project Principles & Practices  P4\, a body of guidelines intended as a \223front end\224 to the FPP and DP. Criteria for the content and completeness of a concept are captured as \223Princip les\224, e.g., a description of what must be included in a mission operations concept Processes to be followed during concept development activities are defined as \223Practices\224, e.g., a requirement that advanced-study participants archive intermediate products in an online library We have found that acceptance of process constraints especially by entrepreneurial engineers and scientists hinges on their understanding of why the constraints make sense. Thus to facilitate accep tance and foster innovation the P4 has three features: \(1\ale is provided throughout; \(2\practices are limited to those repeatedly proven as necessary or extrem ely effective; and \(3\h principles and practices are iden tified as either guidelines or requirements. The mix emphasizes guidelines for the early CML, and shifts toward rigorous, specific requirements as CML progresses User groups originated, drafted, and iterated the P4 guidelines and requirements over a two-year period. Results were validated by the broader user community and program managers. The P4 is already in use and being migrated to a web-hosted client to support access and query by lifecycle review, concept element \(e.g., system design\ML or textstring search The hardcopy edition is organized into 23 sections describing the engineering and management concept elements listed in Figure 4. The requirements and guidelines in each section are divided into sub-sections corresponding to the three lifecycle subphases: Advanced Studies spanning CML 1 \226 3; Concept Development for CML 4 \226 5 and Early Formulation for CML 6 - 7 At the beginning of each section, a flow chart maps the evolution of the relevant requirements across the lifecycle Figure 7\he correspondin g row from the CML matrix details how the maturity increases The P4 also includes the subset of Flight Project Practices and Design Principles that affect specific actions and decisions that have to be made during early portions of the lifecycle. Although there are no flight project practices directly applicable during the Advanced Studies sub-phase a moderate number are applicable during Concept Development, and the preponderance of requirements identified for Early Formulation are reproduced from the FPP. The complete FPP is being made accessible from the P4 web client. Additional chapters in P4 describe early formulation lifecycle reviews the CML matrix, and the overall concept development process 8  F RONTLINE  W EB PORTAL  JPL\222s Project Support Website, developed nine years ago, is widely used by the project implementation community. To provide analogous support to the \223Frontline\224 community we created the Frontline web portal \(Figure 8\ as a consolidated source of information for concept development, proposal preparation and early formulation. It provides links to institutional and NASA requirements processes, event calendars, and upcoming proposal opportunities; and provides reference descriptions of ongoing projects, Team X studies, lifecycle reviews, and gate products 9  M ISSION D EVELOPMENT W ORKSHOP  Upgrading tools and providing information is insufficient to substantively improve the \223culture\224 of formulation and achieve the goals described ear lier. We recognized that systemic development of a frontline community was needed, in which formulators and implementers could share their views, experiences, and lessons. Only by bridging these cultures could we create better-understood and moreimplementable mission concepts, and implement missions closer to what the scientists originally envisioned Our principal mechanism for frontline community development is a training and discussion forum called the Mission Development Workshop \(MDW\This week-long off-site workshop was organized to supplement JPL\222s highly successful Project Manager Worksh incorporates case studies, panel discussions, and presentations by Laboratory experts to teach and inspire participants, and give them a \223safe\224 environment to challenge principles and assumptions  


  8 5.8 Technical Risk Assessment and Mitigation Technical risk assessment involves identifica tion, analysis, and mitigation of risks These risks need to be identified early and continuously re-evaluated  Principles 1. Unprecedented Capabilities G\\226 The concept includes a list of unique and unprecedented mission capabilities outside JPL or NASA experience.  \(CML 1  Rationale: Unprecedented capabilities represent potential risk areas that should be identified to inform the initial feasibility studies 2 Implementing New Functionality G\\226 The concept includes an identification of alternative approaches for implementing unprecedented ne w capabilities and/or significant technology or engineering development. \(CML 2  Rationale: Cannot conclude the concept is feasible without identifying backups for new technology and major engineering development Practices 1 Early Identification of Top Risks G\ocument to risks and potential mitigations. \(CML 3 Rationale: Understand the risk implications of each option being evaluated so that they can be compared Figure 7 \226 Excerpt from JPL\222s Pre-Project Principles a nd Practices illustrates stru cture of this knowledgemanagement resource. Note: In this example Principles are truncated at CML 3   Figure 8 \226 Frontline web portal provides one-stop access by JPL\222 s project formulation co mmunity to relevant and current information, st andards, and links Risk list expanded to include second tier subsystem and/or instrument risks CML 6 Project risk management process implemented Selected mitigation development options into baseline detailed Strategies for control allocation & release of tech margins & cost reserves documented A 5 x 5 matrix with relevant risk drivers include selected mitigation/ development options\ used Mitigation/ development options for risks characterized documented How to implement new functionality; Initial risk drivers & developments documented What is unprecedented CML 7 CML 5 CML 4 CML 3 CML 2 CML 1 Risk list expanded to include second tier subsystem and/or instrument risks CML 6 Project risk management process implemented Selected mitigation development options into baseline detailed Strategies for control allocation & release of tech margins & cost reserves documented A 5 x 5 matrix with relevant risk drivers include selected mitigation/ development options\ used Mitigation/ development options for risks characterized documented How to implement new functionality; Initial risk drivers & developments documented What is unprecedented CML 7 CML 5 CML 4 CML 3 CML 2 CML 1 What is unprecedented How to implement new functionality Evaluate alternate approaches for implementing new functionality 5X5 Risk Matrix Risks associated mitigation approach Risk list including subsystem risks To identify potential risk areas To assess feasibility To support trade space exploration To support development of an implementation approach Baseline project risk posture For continuous risk management Preliminary Risk Management Plan For preliminary costschedule-design integrated baseline What is unprecedented How to implement new functionality Evaluate alternate approaches for implementing new functionality 5X5 Risk Matrix Risks associated mitigation approach Risk list including subsystem risks To identify potential risk areas To assess feasibility To support trade space exploration To support development of an implementation approach Baseline project risk posture For continuous risk management Preliminary Risk Management Plan For preliminary costschedule-design integrated baseline  


  9 Figure 9 shows a typical MDW agenda INTRODUCTION COSTING Motivation for the Workshop  Cost Estimating and Pricing Vision for the Future of JPL\222s 7 Business Units  Cost and Schedule Risk Analysis Profiling Frontline Players  Cost Risk Subfactors 226 How to Apply Them Science Participation throughout the Life Cycle Project Scheduling Panel 223New Mission Concepts \226 How Developed, Sold and Kept Alive during Formulation\224  JPL\222s Annual Business Cycle and Investment Process  Formulation Life Cycle   CAPTURE PLANNING  PROPOSALS Panel 223How to Capture Assigned Missions\224  Introduction to Proposal Development Capture Team Roles  Panel 223Proposal Lessons Learned\224 Competitive Solicitations, Gates and Guidelines  The Proposal Partnership Non-NASA Business  How NASA Conducts TMCO Reviews Capture Planning Toolkit  A O Proposal Development Toolkit Case History 223Example of a Recent Project Capture Strategy\224  Panel: Recent Wins CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT  FORMULATION PLANNING Concept Development Overview Instrument Projects Panel 223Science \226Driven Concept Design\224  Case Study 223Planetary In-situ Science Mission that Looks Too Good to be True\224 Designing a Concept for Survival  T op Priorities for Newly Approved Projects Technology as a Driver for Concept Development  Panel of JPL Project Managers 223Decisions Made during Early Formulation that had Major Impacts on Implementation \226 Good and Bad\224 Pre Project Principles and Practices  Nurturing Innovation   Team X   A FTER-DINNER SPEAKER 223System Engineering with a Clean Sheet of Paper\224  Figure 9 \226Mission Develo pment Workshop informs JPL\222s Frontline community on topics across the breadth of formulation work, and provides a key venue for sharing experiences, lessons, and questions The objectives of th e workshop are to 200  Include and involve key implementation leaders as a vital part of the formulation community 200  Expose frontline practitioners to the entire set of activities required to acquire and develop new missions and instruments 200  Increase the effectiveness of JPL\222s science community interactions, advanced planning, concept development cost estimate validation, proposal preparation, and preproject planning 200  Increase robustness of mission concepts developed for proposals and assigned missions, to minimize downstream technical and co st problems when projects are implemented 200  Promote formulation as a special skill supported by a valued career path Attendees include practitioners at all levels: program managers, line managers, scientists, pre-project and proposal leaders, mission designers, system engineers concept developers, costing experts, and administrative staff. To date, almost 250 JPL frontliners have participated in the MDW. It has been very favorably received 10  O RGANIZATIONAL F OCUS  Mission failures a decade ago cat alyzed JPL organizational and process changes to improve project implementation [1  Similarly, recent challenges in the competitive and cost credibility environment for sp ace science missions catalyzed the formulation improvements described in this paper Underpinning JPL\222s ability to institutionally change its formulation culture and make new standards \223stick\224 is a new climate of attention to the front end, led from the top JPL began this transformation in 2005 by creating the position of Associate Director for Project Formulation and Strategy. The position reports directly to the JPL Director and oversees all aspects of wo rk leading to the assignment and approval of mission, instrument, and technology projects by sponsors The Associate Director created an executive office through which to coordinate best practices across the seven JPL business lines, and assure the individual businesses work synergistically. This Office of Strategic Planning & Project Formulation \(Figure 10\ works with program managers, line managers, and other experts to define and monitor appropriate policies and standards; to develop and provide frontline infrastructure; and to manage allocation of opportunity investment funds. The office \(Office 150 staffed by 16 personnel, some of whom are matrixed into the Engineering & Science and Business Management directorates. There are five principal offices 200  Office 151 is an analysis support shop for the JPL Strategic Management Council, with emphasis on the integration of strategic investments, policies, and progress in meeting institutional objectives 200  Office 152 provides funds, infrastructure, and Fellowlevel consultation to all JPL advanced-study teams This includes Team X \(JPL\222s ensemble of pre-project design and costing teams, tools, and facilities for rapid in-depth, CML 1 \226 4 mission and instrument studies The office develops approaches to improve effectiveness and creativity of concept development e.g., the Rapid Mission Arch itecture team for early tradespace exploration\nd fu nded internal solicitations for innovative mission concepts. It also partners with line management to nurture JPL\222s cadre of mission and instrument architects throug h training and on-the-job experience 


  10  Figure 10 \226 JPL Office of Strategic Planning & Project Formulation coordinates frontline methods across the Laboratory 200  Office 153 provides institutional oversight of JPL processes for acquiring projects. It allocates institutional funds to Program Directorates for this purpose; coordinates institutional gates and reviews throughout formulation; provides training and senior consultation in capture planning and proposal writing develops and maintains proposal templates, tools and information resources; manages \223war rooms;\224 and coordinates proposal production and delivery 200  Office 154 hosts the Formulation Support Team described earlier, and develops and maintains the associated tools and se rvices. It coordinates development and maintenance of CML criteria and the P4, and works with Program Offices to assess concept maturity at lifecycle gates. It also maintains the Frontline web portal, and produces the Mission Development Workshop. Office 154 is a team\222s \223launch pad\224 to the Project Support Office 200  Office 155 provides institutional support for modeling and simulation, with principal focus on early system and mission planning. The office also coordinates use of external development funds for decision support system analysis, modeling and simulation. It is JPL\222s primary interface to NASA\222s Program Assessment and Evaluation \(PAE\Office and long-range planning offices in NASA\222s Exploration Systems and Science Mission directorates 11  C ONCLUSIONS  JPL has significantly improved executive attention, detailed support, infrastructure, and best-practice standards for PrePhase A teams during advanced studies, concept development, proposal preparation, and early formulation From the top down, the Laboratory is more focused on developing concepts with better definition, thorough trade space exploration, mature element descriptions, wellarticulated risks, and validated cost reserves. Concept teams are formed earlier than ever before and provided with upgraded tools and processes to improve the robustness of their product. They are shepherded by institutional experts through documented Pre-Phase A Life Cycle gates. The Concept Maturity Level framework is routinely used to Associate Laboratory Director for Project Formulation & Strategy 150 Strategic Planning & Formulation Office 151 Strategic Analysis Support Office 152 Advanced Concepts Development Office 153 Opportunity Development Office 154 Project Formulation Support Office 155 System Modeling and Analysis Office 1521 Advanced Design Methods Office 1531 Proposal Support Office Mission architects Tools Team X New methodologies Capture strategies Strategic funding support Proposal gates standards templates reviews processes Formulation Team support to Step 2 Proposals and Formulation Teams P4 Standards, tools templates examples Frontline website Infrastructure support for modeling and simulation JPL Laboratory Director Associate Laboratory Director for Project Formulation & Strategy 150 Strategic Planning & Formulation Office 151 Strategic Analysis Support Office 152 Advanced Concepts Development Office 153 Opportunity Development Office 154 Project Formulation Support Office 155 System Modeling and Analysis Office 1521 Advanced Design Methods Office 1531 Proposal Support Office 151 Strategic Analysis Support Office 151 Strategic Analysis Support Office 152 Advanced Concepts Development Office 153 Opportunity Development Office 154 Project Formulation Support Office 154 Project Formulation Support Office 155 System Modeling and Analysis Office 155 System Modeling and Analysis Office 1521 Advanced Design Methods Office 1521 Advanced Design Methods Office 1531 Proposal Support Office 1531 Proposal Support Office Mission architects Tools Team X New methodologies Capture strategies Strategic funding support Proposal gates standards templates reviews processes Formulation Team support to Step 2 Proposals and Formulation Teams P4 Standards, tools templates examples Frontline website Infrastructure support for modeling and simulation JPL Laboratory Director 


  11 assure appropriate engineering and management maturity at these gates Teams have easy access to hundreds of guidelines and lessons captured in the Pre-Project Principles & Practices  Dedicated Formulation Support Team services now extend to Step 2 proposal teams and pre-projects. A new web portal and week-long training workshop support the whole Frontline community including key implementation leaders Finally, key organizational changes provide the \223wheelbase\224 and resources to systematize and continue these improvements. JPL anticipat es the outcome of these measures will be better support to the science community and our sponsors in the form of highly valued flight projects with more accurately fore casted technical, cost, and schedule challenges A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES   IEEEAC Paper 1359 presented at 2004 IEE E Aerospace Conference; \223JPL\222s Approach for Helping Flight Project Managers Meet Today\222s Mana gement Challenges\224, C. J Leising, dated 12/22/03  AIAA Paper 2009-6824 pr esented at AIAA Space 2009 Conference and Exposition, Pasadena, California Measuring the Maturity of Robotic Planetary Mission Concepts", R.R. Wessen, M. Adler, C.J. Leising, B Sherwood, Sep. 14-17, 2009 B IOGRAPHIES  Jeff Leising has 42 years experience at JPL in various engineering, project and program management positions. He has worked for NASA on unmanned space flight projects to the Moon, Mars, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. He has also worked for DOE in solar photovoltaic and solar thermal energy, with DOT in electric and hybrid vehicle development, and with DOD in tactical information fusion. He manages Office 154, Project Formulation supporting proposal teams and new projects as they establish plans and requirements, identify risks and reserve postures, and establish integrated baselines. His technical background is in propulsion, system engineering, and management processes. Jeff graduated from Cornell University with Bachelors and Masters in Mechanical Engineering Firouz Naderi is the Associate Director of NASA\222s JPL responsible for project formulation and strategy. Dr. Naderi has spent most of the last decade managing programs in pursuit of a most fundamental question \226 are we alone in the universe? He led the Mars Exploration Program at JPL for five years \226 a period that saw successful launch of three missions to Mars including the much heralded twin Mars rovers Spirit and Opportunity. This program has the goal of determining if Mars is currently or was a habitat for life. Prior to becoming the h ead of the Mars program he spent four years as the program manager of the Origins Program\227NASA\222s ambitious plan to search for other Earths around other Suns. Dr. Naderi who was born in Shiraz Iran, received his Ph.D from the University of Southern California \(USC\has been with JPL for 30 years a career which spans program and project management for satellite communications systems, Earth remote sensing observatories, astrophysical observatories and planetary systems. He is the recipient of a number of awards including NASA\222s Outstanding Leadership Medal the Technology Hall of Fame medal and, NASA\222s highest award the Distinguished Service Medal. Other awards include the Liberal Prize in 2004 and the Ellis Island Medal of Honor in 2005. Dr. Naderi is a Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \(AIAA Brent Sherwood has five years at JPL preceded by 17 years at Boeing. He manages Office 150 Strategic Planning & Project Formulation providing institutional coordination of Frontline methods, standa rds, support, and funding to JPL\222s seven business lines. He has worked on human planetary exploration engineering and Mars Sample Return concepts, ISS module manufacturing, Sea Launch program development, and various commercial space projects. His technical background is in space architecture system configuration, manufacturing engineering, strategic planning, and business development. Brent graduated from Yale with a B.A. and Master of Architecture; and from the University of Maryland with an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering Mark Adler is currently the Chief Engineer of the Strategic Planning and Project Formulation Office at JPL, and is a JPL Fellow. At JPL, Dr. Adler he has been the Cassini Lead Mission Engineer, the Mars Program Architect, and the Mars Exploration Rover Spirit Mission Manager. Previous to that he was the Advanced Technology Section Head at Hughes Aircra ft Company. He has a Ph.D in Physics from Caltech, an d an M.S. in Electrical Engineering and B.A. in Mathematics, both from the University of Florida   


  12 Randii Wessen has been an employee of the California Institute of Technology\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory for twenty-five years. Dr. Wessen is currently the Deputy Manager of the Project Formulation Office. Prior to this Dr. Wessen was the Navigator Program System Engineer, the Tele-communications & Mission Systems Manager for the Mars Program, Manager of the Cassini Science Planning Operations Element, the Galileo Deputy Sequence Team Chief, and the Voyager Science Sequence Coordinator for the Uranus & Neptune encounters. Dr. Wessen received his Bachelors of Science in both Physics & Astronomy from Stony Brook University, a Masters of Science in Astronautics from the University of Southern California and a Doctorate in Operations Research from the University of Glamorgan, Wales, United Kingdom. He co-authored the books \223Neptune: the Planet, Rings and Satellites\224 223Planetary Ring Systems.\224 


  ci i i cA I I M rr m I   13  21 0 2 24 ln  cA i ci rr Mm I    21 0 21 ln 4 2 003\006 265 f  25  006 265 003  26  Figure 24 Ratio of critical ionization current to discharge current with xenon and krypton for a cathode anode geometry similar to that used in this experiment  In Figure 24 it can be seen that for operation with xenon and krypton \(argon would lay between the two\ion at low flow rates < 1sccm at currents above 30Amps 1 Below 1 the flow is only partially ionized while at 1 the flow can be expected to be highly ionized and may exhibit behavior similar to MPDT\222s  If the thrust production mechanism in the T6 hollow cathodes was indeed more electromagnetic at low flowrates rather than electrothermal the electromagnetic component of thrust level should be independent of cathode and orifice operating pressures and appear almost instantaneously as the discharge is switched on and off. This data can be seen in the transient thrust measurement in Figure 25   Figure 25 Transient thrust measurement as T6LA is switched on at t=22, off at t-47 and the mass flow is switched off at t=70. Cathode is operated at 25Amps with 0.2mg/s argon  As seen above the additional thrust component appears almost instantaneously \(with some delay due to the inertia of the target thrust balance\he discharge is switched on and removed instantaneously as the discharge is extinguished. As the mass flow is switched off however a characteristic transient is seen as the cathode and feed lines depressurize. If the thrust component which appears during the discharge was indeed electrothermal it would take 10-20 seconds to reach steady state as seen in the mass flow switch-off transient however it does not. In addition the theoretical MHD thrust determined by the Maecker formula for a similar geometrical configuration to the T6 cathode matches close to the thrust extrapolations level at zero mass flowrate as shown in Figure 26   Figure 26 T6 thrust characteristics with theoretical MHD thrust at the respective current levels  This data strengthens the hypothesis that the T6LA operates in an MPDT type mode at low flowrates and high currents    


  14 F  Electrostatic acceleration  One other mechanism which coul d also play a role in the thrust generation in both the T5CA and T6LA is electrostatic acceleration of ions through a potential drop due to the formation of a region of positive plasma potential. The existence of this positive column has been seen extensively in experimental measurements and has been proposed as a means of acceleration as ions fall down the potential hill. The structure of the plasma potential is of particular interest because it ma y also be directly associated with the attainable ion energies. High energy ion erosion has been identified as the most probable near-term cause of failure during extended life tests at NASA JPL on the NSTAR ion thruster 51 The plasma density and potential profiles downstream of the keep er electrode in the NSTAR hollow cathode have been extensively measured with scanning probes by Herman and Gallimore 52 Jameson, et al 53 and by Sengupta, et al 54   The source of the energy to pr oduce these ions in excess of 90eV is likely to be RF plasma potential oscillations in the near cathode plume from plasma instabilities 55 Goebel postulated that the source of these plasma potential oscillations is likely turbulent ion acoustic waves generated in the hollow cathode discharge plasma or ionization instabilities termed predator-prey modes in the near-cathode plume region. Evidence indicates that discharge plasma potential oscillations measured by Goebel et al. had amplitudes about twice the average discharge voltage, large enough to account for high ener gy ions accelerated through the potential gap between the oscillation peak and cathode potential 56   Although ions of extreme energies have been attributed to these RF plasma oscillations, the existence of a spatially rising plasma potential cannot be ignored as a source of bulk ion acceleration. It has b een sufficient to regard the spatial or temporal profiles of the plasma potential obtained by the measurements were suffi cient to be considered the mechanism for the generation and direction of high-energy ions well in excess of the discharge voltage. The details of how discharges establishes a spatially rising plasma potential downstream of the keep er or the reasons for the absence of a non-monotonic profile have not yet been fully identified and explained  In the case of a potential hill, an electric field exists across a plasma potential drop  dx dV E 212  M VVe V f e  28 The ion velocity at any point follows from conservation of energy to give the particle velocities shown in Figure 27  0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 Ion Energy [eV Ion Velocity [km/s Krypton Argon Xenon  Figure 27 Corresponding ion velocities with krypton and xenon for a given energy  Investigations by the author 57 on a \274 inch hollow cathode with an electrostatic energy analyzer operating on xenon and krypton have shown that bulk acceleration of ions is found, particularly with increasing discharge current and decreasing mass flowrate, where peak plasma potentials are likely to increase. An exampl e of this bulk acceleration is shown in Figures 28 and 29 for xenon   Figure 28 Ion energy distributions at 10 amps with xenon  At 10Amps discharge current the ESA data shows slightly energy peaks up to 62.4eV which are likely caused by ion acoustic waves. However the plot also begins to show a bulk acceleration of the 2.44sccm and 2.05sccm conditions 212  27  In this case, the velocity gained by a singly charged particle moving through the potential is   2 1 0 2 


  15 20eV\ereby the complete distribution is shifted up in energy; a process exemplified at higher currents. At 16Amps Figure 26 shows peak ion energies are significantly higher than for the 10Amp condition and with much greater bulk acceleration of plasma; the data for the 2.05sccm flow condition for instance shows little to no ions with energies less than 35eV. The 2.94sccm condition shows a decrease in collected cu rrent contrary to the trend which may be due to some thermal movement, MHD vectoring of the plume or plume expansion   Figure 29 Ion energy distributions at 16 amps with xenon Since no measurements of plasma potential have been made of the T5 or T6 configurations it is not possible to confirm or deny the significance of such a mechanism in our thrust measurements however such a mechanism would only be significant if the plasma was highly ionized and remained in that state through the accelerati on process. If this were the case then plasma potential hill acceleration may play a role in thrust production. Future investigations will aim to identify the role of this mechanism in thrust production by taking plasma potential measurements C ONCLUSION   An overview of the design considerations for hollow cathode thruster optimization has been presented along with data collected from configurations of the T5 and T6 hollow cathode thrusters. The basis for several thrust production mechanisms has been proposed  Analysis of the T5CA results indicate that the thrust mechanism may be explicable by electrothermal type operation in a conventional gas-dynamic mode however with significant plasma pressure contributing to increased thrust as a result of the electron pressure component at the orifice exit. The exact thrust mechanisms of the T6 hollow cathode have been debated for some time. Our results indicate that for high specific im pulse there is considerable evidence that at high currents and low flowrates, the hollow cathode operates as a low power MPD thruster. Due to the relatively low currents, elect ron convective and radiative losses dominate performance and thus give poor thrust efficiencies. If this is the case operation at elevated currents is likely to significantly improve performance and thrust efficiency; although this will be well beyond the rated current capacity for the T6 cathode. Indeed multi-channel hollow cathodes have been proposed and built for MPD thrusters for some time. If the hollow cathode thruster is to have a place in the family of MPD accelerators, it may be as a very low power thruster <2kW \(owing to the low discharge voltages very little power conditioning required. Thrust efficienci es are unlikely to improve significantly since this will scale quadratically with discharge current and will quickly enter much higher power regimes of operation.  Analysis would indicate that while electrothermal acceleration does play a role in T6 thrust production, it does not increase significantly as mass flow is decreased. This suggests that either electron temperature does not increase significantly at lower flow rates or that the energy equipartition between electrons-ions and electronneutrals remains too low for any substantial increase in heat transfer. If the flow in the T6 cathode is also substantially ionized it has also been shown that plasma potential hill acceleration may play a role in thrust production however this requires further investigation  Further detailed analysis is required to verify the existence of each mechanism and to understand the best means in which to utilize them to give greater performance. Further work is also required on anode design in order to optimize performance and increase efficiency. The low voltages obtained in the T6LA and T5CA designs highlight the importance of plasma anode interaction and anode geometry. Previously keeper design has been considered relatively insignificant; however as has been shown optimized keeper design is imperative for hollow cathode thrusters, but also for neutralizers for Hall thrusters, ion engines and plasma contactors for minimization of discharge voltage R EFERENCES   1  Gray, H L, "Development of ion propulsion systems", GEC Rev 12, 3, 154-168, 1997 2 Wallace, N C and Feam, D G, "The design and performance of the T6 ion thruster AIAA Paper 98-3342, 1998 3 Fearn, D, Singfield, A, Wallace, N, Gab-, S and Harris, P The operation of ion thruster hollow cathodes using rare gas propellants AIAA Paper 90-2584, 1990 4 Latham, P M, Martin, A R and Bond, A, "Design, manufacture and performance of the UK-25 engineering model thruster", AIAA Paper 90-2541, 1990 5 Harris, P T and Gair, S, "A revi ew of the cathode construction for the RAE 10/25 mN thruster", IEPC Paper 88-078, 1988 6 Philip, C M and Fearn, D G Recent hollow cathode investigations at the Roya l Aircraft Establishment AIAA paper 73-1137, \(1973 7 Fearn, D G The operation of hollow cathodes under conditions suitable for ion beam neutralization Proc Conf on Electric  


  16  Propulsion of Space Vehicles, Culham Laboratory, UK, \(April 1973\100, pp 146-150, 1973 8 S. Pottinger, P. Gessini, D. We bb, R. Intini Marques and S. B Gabriel, \223 Electric Propulsion Research at the University of Southampton 224, Journal of the British Interplanetary Society, Vol 59, No. 5, May 2006 9 P. Gessini, S. B. Gabr iel and D. G. Fearn, \223 Thrust Characterization of a T6 Hollow Cathode 224, IEPC Paper 05-257 29 th International Electric Propulsion Conference, Princeton, NJ October-November 2005 10 P. Gessini, S. B. Gabr iel and D. G. Fearn, \223 The T6 Hollow Cathode as a Microthruster 224, AIAA Paper 2005-4078, 41 st  AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference & Exhibit Tucson, AZ, July 2005 11 QinetiQ Study, European Student Moon Orbiter 12 Walker, R., \223The SIMONE Mission low-cost Exploration of the Diverse NEO Population via Rend ezvous with Microsatellites\224 IAC-03-Q.5.05 54th International Astronautical Congress of the International Astronautical Federa tion, the International Academy of Astronautics, and the International Institute of Space Law Bremen, , Sep. 29-3, 2003 13 Rayman, Marc D. and David H. Lehman, \223NASA\222s First New Millennium Deep-Space Technology Validation Flight,\224 Second IAA International Conference on Low-Cost Planetary Missions Laurel, MD, April 16-19, 1996, IAAL-0502 14 P. Bodin, S. Berge, M. Bjork A. Edfors, J. Kugelberg and P Rathsman \223 The SMART-1 Attitude and Orbit Control System Flight Results from the First Mission Phase 224, AIAA-2004-5244 AIAA Guidance, Navigation, and C ontrol Conference and Exhibit Providence, Rhode Island, Aug. 16-19, 2004 15 H. Kuninaka, Y. Shimizu, T Yamada, I. Funaki and K Nishiyama,,\224 Flight Report During Two Years on HAYABUSA Explorer Propelled by Microw ave Discharge Ion Engines\224  AIAA-2005-3673, 41st AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference and Exhibit, Tucson, Arizona, July 10-13, 2005 16 Rayman, M. D., Fraschettia, T. C., Raymonda, C. A., Russell C T, \223Preparing for the Dawn Missi on so Vesta and Ceres\224, IAC-05A3.5.B.011, 56th International Astronautical Congress, 17 - 21 October 2005, Fukuoka, Japan 17 Moerel, J., Mar\351e, T., Bombelli, V., Simon D., \223 Economic Benefits of the Use of Non-Toxic Mono-Propellants for Spacecraft Applications 224  , AIAA-2003-4783  39th AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference and Exhibit, Huntsville, Alabama July 20-23, 2003 18  Richie E Wirz Dissertation Discharge Plasma Processes of Ring-Cusp Ion Thrusters, Ph.D Thesis, California Institute of Technology 2005 19 Gesini, P., \223Hollow Cathode Thrust Measurement Using a Target\224, PhD Thesis, University of Southampton, 2006 20 Jankovsky, R. S.,  Sankovic, J. M., Oleson, S., \223 Performance of a FAKEL K10K resistojet 224, AIAA-1997-3059 AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference and Exhibit, 33rd, Seattle, WA, July 6-9, 1997 21 Coxhill, I., Gibbon, D.,\223 A Xenon Resistojet Propulsion System for Microsatellites 224, AIAA-2005-4260 41st AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference and Exhibit, Tucson, Arizona, July 10-13, 2005 22 Grubisic A.N., Gabriel S.B Development of an Indirect Measurement Micro-to-Milli-Newton Thrust Balance American Institute of Astronautics and Ae ronautics, Journal of Propulsion and Power, \(pending   23 Grubisic A.N., Gabriel S.B Thrust Characterization of the TSeries Hollow Cathode Microthrusters American Institute of Astronautics and Aeronautics, J ournal of Propulsion and Power pending 24 Grubisic A.N., Gabriel S.B., \223 Hollow Cathode Thrusters for AllElectric Spacecraft 224 IAC-07-C4.4.07, 58 th International Astronautical Federation Congress Hyderabad, India, September 2007 25 Grubisic A.N., Gabriel S.B. D. G. Fearn, \223 Characterization of the T-Series Hollow Cathode Thrusters for All-Electric Spacecraft 224 IEPC-2007-81, 30 th International Electric Propulsion Conference, Florence, Italy, September, 2007 26 Grubisic A.N., \223 Ion Energies in an Open-Diode Hollow Cathode Discharge 224 AIAA-2008-5095, Joint Propulsion Conference Connecticut Convention Centre, Hartford, CT, July, 2008 27 Polk J.E., Grubisic A. N., Goebel D., \223 Emitter Temperature Distributions in the NSTAR Discharge Hollow Cathode 224 AIAA2005-4398, 41 st AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference, Tucson, AZ, 2005 28 Grubisic A.N., \223 Temperature Characterization and Optimization of an NSTAR Discharge Cathode for the Deep Space-1 Gridded Ion-Engine 224 Masters Thesis, International Space University, Strasbourg, France 2005 29 Sarver-Verhey, T. R., \223 28,000 Hour Xenon Hollow Cathode Life Test Results 224 IEPC Paper No. 97-168 \(1997 30 Rawlin, V. K., \223 A 13,000 Hour Test of a Mercury Hollow Cathode 224 NASA TM X-2785 \(1973 31 Rehn, L. and Kaufman, H.R 223Correlation of Inert Gas Hollow Cathode Performance,\224 AIAA Paper No. 78-707 \(1978 32 Mandell, M.J. and Katz I., \223 Theory of Hollow Cathode Operation in Spot and Plume Modes 224 AIAA. Paper No. 94\2263134 30th AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference  33 Pottinger S J and Gabriel S B 2003 IEPC 28th Int. Electric Propulsion Conf  Toulouse, France, 17\22621 March 2003 34 Malik, AK, Montarde, P, Haines, MG, Spectroscopic measurements on xenon plas ma in a hollow cathode J PHYS D APPL PHYS, 2000, Vol: 33, Pages: 2037 \226 2048 35 Mark W. Crofton, \223The F easibility of Hollow Cathode Ion Thrusters: A Preliminary Characterization,\224 AIAA-2000-5354 36 th  AIAA/ASME/SAE/ASEE Joint Propulsion Conference and Exhibit July 16-19, 2000  37 A. K. Malik, D. G. Fearn, \223The Study of the Physics of Hollow Cathode Discharges,\224 IEPC-93-026 AIAA/AIDAA/DGLR/JSASS 23rd International Electric Propulsion Conference September 1316, 1993 38 P. Gessini, S. B. Gabr iel and D. G. Fearn, \223 Thrust Characterization of a T6 Hollow Cathode 224, IEPC Paper 05-257 29 th International Electric Propulsion Conference, Princeton, NJ October-November 2005 39 G. Mikellides , I. Katz, D.M Goebel, J.E. Polk, \223Theroretical Model of a Hollow Cathode Plasma for the Assesment of Insert and Keeper Lifetimes\224, 41st AIAA Joint Propulsion Conference Arizona, 2005 40 Goebel, D. M., Jameson, K. K Katz, I, and Mikellides 1. G Potential fluctuations and energetic ion production in hollow cathode discharges Phys. Plasmas Vo1.l4, 2007, 103508 41 Grubisic A.N., Gabriel S.B Development of an Indirect Measurement Micro-to-Milli-Newton Thrust Balance American Institute of Astronautics and Ae ronautics, Journal of Propulsion and Power, \(pending 42 Sahli, A., Turchi, P.J., \223 Low Power Plasma Thruster Based on a  


  17  Hollow Cathode Discharge 224, AIAA Paper No. 94-3126 \(1994 43 Williams, G., Smith, T., Do monkos, M., Shand, K., and Gallimore, A., \223 Laser Induced Fluorescence Characterization of Ions Emitted from a Hollow Cathode 224 AIAA Paper No. 99-2862  1999 44 Domonkos, M. T., Gallimore, A. D., and Patterson, M. J., \223 An Evaluation of Hollow Cathode Scaling to Very Low-power and Flow Rate 224 IEPC Paper No. 97-189  1997 45 Katz, I. and Patterson, M. J., \223 Optimizing Plasma Contactors for Electrodynamic Tether Missions 224 Tether Technology Interchange Huntsville, AL, Sept. 1997 46 Mikellides I., Katz ., Goebel D. M., and Polk J. E 223 Theoretical Model of a Hollow Cathode Plasma for the Assessment of Insert and Keeper Lifetimes 224, AIAA Paper No 2005-4234 \(2005 47 Choueiri, E., \223On the Thrust of Self-Field MPD Thrusters\224 IEPC-97-121, International Electric Propulsion Conference, 1997  48 Choueiri, E. Y., \223Scaling of Thrust in Self-Field Magnetoplasmadynamic Thruster s," Journal of Propulsion and Power, Vol. 14, No. 5, 1998, pp. 744-753 49 Diamant, K. D., Choueiri E. Y., and Jahn, R. G., \223 Spot mode transition and the anode fall of pulsed magnetoplasmadynamic thrusters 224 Journal of Propulsion and Po wer, Vol. 14, No. 6, 1998 pp. 1036\2261042 50 1Choueiri, E. Y., Kelly, A. J., and Jahn, R. G., \223 MPD thruster instabilities studies 224 19th International Electric Propulsion Conference, Colorado Springs, CO, 1987, AIAA-87-1067 51 Sengputa, A. \223 Destructive Physical Analysis of Hollow Cathodes from the Deep Space 1 Flight Spare Ion Engine 30,000Hr  Life Test 224. 29th International Electric Propulsion Conference, IEPC-2005-026, 2005 52 19D. Herman and A. Gallimore, \223Near discharge cathode assembly plasma potential measurements in a 30-cm NSTAR type ion Engine\224, AIAA Paper 2004-3958, 40th Joint Propulsion Conference, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, July 11-14, 2004 53 15K. Jameson, D.M. Goebel, R Watkins, \223Hollow cathode and keeper region plasma measur ements\224, AIAA Paper 2005- 3667 41th Joint Propulsion Conference, Tucson, AZ July 11-13, 2005 54 20A. Sengupta, \223Experimental inve stigation of discharge plasma magnetic field confinement in an NSTAR thruster\224, AIAA Paper 2005-4069, 41th Joint Propulsion Conference, Tucson, AZ July 11-13, 2005 55 D.M. Goebel, D.M. Goebel, K Jameson, I. Katz, I. Mikellides J. Polk, \223Energetic Ion Production and Keeper Erosion in Hollow Cathode Discharges\224 IEPC-2005-266 29th International Electric Propulsion Conference, Princeton University, Oct. 31- Nov. 4 2005 56 D.M. Goebel, D.M. Goebel, K Jameson, I. Katz, I. Mikellides J. Polk, \223Energetic Ion Production and Keeper Erosion in Hollow Cathode Discharges\224 IEPC-2005-266 29th International Electric Propulsion Conference, Princeton University, Oct. 31- Nov. 4 2005 57 Grubisic A.N., \223 Ion Energies in an Open-Diode Hollow Cathode Discharge 224 AIAA-2008-5095, Joint Propulsion Conference Connecticut Convention Centre, Hartford, CT, July, 2008         B IOGRAPHY   Angelo N. Grubisic was born on the 24 th of June 1981. He received his Bachelor of Engi neering degree in Aerospace Systems Engineering from Coventry University in 2003 followed by a Master of Science in Space Studies from the International Space University in 2005. In 2006 he spent a year as a propulsion researcher based with Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd. and Surrey Space Centre. In 2009 he was awarded a PhD in Advanced Propulsion from the University of Southampton. In 2008 Dr. Grubisic was placed with NASA Jet Propulsion Advanced Propulsion Group as part of an entrepreneurial Kauffman Fellowship Currently Dr. Grubisic is a Research Fellow at the University of Southampton.  His research interests include hollow cathode, electron guns, gridded ion thrusters and spacecraft systems engineering  Stephen B. Gabriel was born on August 13, 1949 in Glasgow, U.K. He received th e B.Sc. degree in natural philosophy and the Ph.D. degree in plasma physics from the  University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, in 1971 and 1977 respectively. From 1975 to 1979, he was a Postdoctoral Research Fellow with the Department of Aeronautical Engineering, Bristol University, Bristol, U.K. From 1979 to 1983, he was a Member of the Staff with the Electric Propulsion and Plasma Technology Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\alifornia Institute of Technology, Pasadena, where he mainly worked on electric propulsion, including gridded ion thrusters and MPDs, and plasma spacecraft interactions. From 1983 to 1985, he was a Senior Systems Engineer with the British Aerospace, Space and Communications Division Stevenage, U.K., where he led small systems engineering propulsion teams on several ESA studies. In 1985, he returned to the JPL to become Group Supervisor with the Natural Space Environments Group within the Reliability Engineering Section, where he worked on many of the major interplanetary missions, such as Magellan, Galileo, and Cassini, as well as other missions such as Topex. In 1990, he retu rned to the U.K. to become a Lecturer with the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, University of Southampton, Southampton  


  18     where he was promoted as a Senior Lecturer in 1995 and a Personal Chair, Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics in 2003. His current main research interests include the fields of electric propulsion, including hollow cathodes advanced gridded ion thrusters and pulsed plasma thrusters space environments, in particul ar, solar energetic particle modeling and X-ray and UV effects on materials, and formation flying of nanosatellites  


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


