  1 Standards-Based Wireless Sensor Networking Protocols for Spaceflight Applications Raymond S. Wagner, Ph.D NASA Johnson Space Center 2101 NASA Parkway, Mail Code EV814/ESCG Houston, TX  77058 281-244-2428 raymond.s.wagner@nasa.gov   Abstract 227Wireless sensor networks \(WSNs\he capacity to revolutionize data gathering in both spaceflight and terrestrial applications 12 WSNs provide a huge advantage over traditional, wired instrumentation since they do not require wiring trunks to connect sensors to a central hub.  This allows for easy sensor installation in hard to reach locations, easy expansion of  the number of sensors or 
sensing modalities, and reduction in both system cost and weight.  While this tec hnology offers unprecedented flexibility and adaptability, implementing it in practice is not without its difficulties Recent advances in standardsbased WSN protocols for industrial control applications have come a long way to solving many of the challenges facing practical WSN deployments.  In this paper, we will overview two of the more promising candidates \226 WirelessHART from the HART Communication Foundation and ISA100.11a from the International Society of Automation  \226 and present the architecture for a new standards-based sensor node for networking and applications research T ABLE OF 
C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  C HALLENGES OF W IRELESS S ENSING 2  3  O VERVIEW OF WSN  S TANDARDS 2  4  E XPERIMENTAL M ETHODOLOGY FOR COMPARING STANDARDS 
5  5  C ONCLUSIONS 6  R EFERENCES 7  B IOGRAPHY 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  Wireless Sensor Networks \(WSNs\gm for acquiring sensor data.  Rather than gathering sensor data through wired data buses, WSNs employ a wireless backhaul to transmit sensor readings to central locations for 
aggregation and further processing.  This provides a number of possible benefits in spacecr aft design, not the least of which is the potential to substantially reduce system weight by eliminating wiring harnesses and connectors.  Untethering sensors from wires also opens up a new range of possibilities.  Sensing infrastru cture need no longer be fixed  1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10 25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1159 Version 1, Updated 2009:12:31 after spacecraft design and manuf acture:  should situational awareness be enhanced by re-locating a sensor from one panel to another, this is easily accomplished.  Similarly additional sensors can be easily incorporated into the existing suite, providing a more detailed measurement set 
without requiring more wires to be strung behind bulkheads and through walls of pressure shells.  Finally, wireless sensors can be re-used between vehicles once their initial missions have been ended.  A WSN node can be relocated from a spent vehicle, such as a lunar lander, to one currently in service, such as a lunar rover or habitat.  The node can even be outfitted with a new set of sensors in the process retaining the common radio and networking hardware, to give a new functional unit built mostly from recycled parts Re-purposing wired systems would be much more difficult requiring wiring to be stripped from one craft and re-strung in another and necessitating substantial disassembly of spacecraft in both cases While this technology offers 
unprecedented flexibility and adaptability, implementing it in practice is not without its difficulties, particularly with respect to achieving reliability that is on par with wired sensor approaches.  Any practical WSN deployment must contend with a number of difficulties in its radio frequency \(RF\environment including multi-path reflections and interference from other systems.  Techniques must be designed to overcome all these factors, while at the same time operating at a low enough power draw to allow node lifetimes on the order of years using small, onboard batteries In recent years, a great deal of focus has been given to solving these common problems for WSN applications in industrial automation and control, where the modern 
factory, refinery, or offshore drilling platform presents an incredibly challenging RF envi ronment.  These efforts by government, academic, and industr ial partners have resulted in standards-based wireless sensor network \(SB-WSN protocols capable of communication reliability approaching that of wired solutions with a very low per-node power consumption and network lifetimes on the order of years Given similarities in operational requirements between mission-critical industrial processes and spaceflight applications \226 namely, the insistence that data transport be both extremely reliable as well as timely \226 we maintain that 


  2 these SB-WSN protocols hold great promise in the aerospace arena as well In this paper we will overview the two major standards to emerge from the industrial control field \226 WirelessHART from the HART Communication Foundation and ISA100.11a from the International Society of Automation ISA\IEEE 802.15.4 standard and provide a level of robustne ss and reliability that should make them well suited to spaceflight applications.  We will provide a technical review of both protocols starting with their inspiration as a means to extend the capabilities of ZigBee \226 the first commercial 802.15.4-derived protocol \226 which has had limited uptake in the mission-critical industrial control market We will then discuss the methodology of an in-house performance evaluation of these protocols in a controlled environment and present preliminary results 2  C HALLENGES OF W IRELESS S ENSING  Because sensor nodes are designe d to operate without wire interconnects for data transfer, they will typically not have wired power connections.  This means nodes must rely on local power sources such as power scavenging or onboard batteries for both data processing and communication Sensor nodes must often be small and have service lives on the order of years, so this necessitates very low power operation.  With wireless communication representing the largest portion of a node\222s power utilization, the node must therefore restrict itself to very low-power transmission with periodic sleeping/waking of radio circuitry.  Such lowpower radio-frequency \(RF communication is extremely vulnerable to a variety of distortion and interference mechanisms.  Multi-path reflections can distort signals limit data rates, and cause signal fades that prevent nodes from having clear access to channels, especially in a closed environment such as a spacecraft.  Other RF signal sources such as wireless internet, voice, and data systems may contend with the sensor nodes for bandwidth.  Finally, RF noise from electrical systems and periodic scattering from moving objects such as crew members can collectively contribute to a highly unpredictable, time-varying communication environment Communication reliability is key when replacing wired systems with wireless equivalents, so to cope with this difficult RF environment, a WSN must rely on several different mechanisms to deliver reliable performance.  For example, it must utilize intelligent channel access mechanisms in order to constantly monitor and exploit channel quality and availability, which may vary rapidly with time. In addition, it must employ an intelligent routing mechanism that can move data reliably from a source node back to the central data manager, possibly utilizing multiple different paths relayed through multiple different intermediate nodes. Finally, it must provide simple, reliable mechanisms to expand and contract \(scale\network allowing nodes to enter and leave as necessary and changing the routing structure accordingly.  Moreover, in addition to providing all these services, the WSN must be designed so that nodes make minimal use of their radios both for data transfer and network coordination, to permit years-long operational lifetimes Designing such robustness at the outset is incredibly challenging, and it requires expertise at all layers of the networking stack, from physical radio design to channel access schemes, routing protoc ols, and distributed dataprocessing algorithms.  Fortunately, a critical mass of effort across a variety of fields in wireless sensing has emerged in the last few years, resulting in the development of WSN standards that can be leverage d by spaceflight applications We will now provide a brief overview of these standardized protocols 3  O VERVIEW OF WSN  S TANDARDS  Robust, reliable wireless sensor/actuator networks stand to benefit a number of industries, and as a result much effort has been expended in recen t years to develop design standards for WSNs addressing many of the aforementioned problems.  The core of these efforts is the IEEE 802.15.4 standard, which targets low-data rate applications requiring wireless interconnections between measurement, analysis and control devices \226 aggregations which can be classified as personal area networks \(PANs\s puts 802.15.4 in the same general family as th e Bluetooth standard \(IEEE 802.15.1\hough the low-power and low-data rate nature of its intended applications differentiates it from the latter An 802.15.4 PAN can be analyzed using a simplified version of the Open System Interconnection \(OSI\ocol stack consisting of the following layers \(bottom to top physical \(PHY\edium access control \(MAC NET\ication \(APP\specifies only the PHY and MAC layers.  The remaining layers are provided by subsequent protocols such as ZigBee, WirelessHART ISA100.11a The 802.15.4 PHY specification requires radios to operate in one of three frequency bands: 868-868.8 MHz \(Europe one channel\, 902-928 MHz \(North America, 30 channels and 2400-2483.5 MHz \(worldwide, 16 channels\ber of modulation schemes are allowed in the original 2003 standard and the 2006 and 2007 updates, but the most common are flavors of direct se quence spread spectrum.  To regulate access to the channel, the 802.15.4 MAC describes a carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance CSMA-CA\scheme.  That is, a device with a message to send will first listen to the channel, and if there is no activity it can begin transmitting its data.  If the sending device finds that the channel is already in use, it waits for a random period and then checks the channel for activity again, either transmitting or waiting for another random 


  3 number period depending on what it observes.  Typically some limit on the number of attempts to make will be set so that devices do not wait ad infinitum to send a single me  Standardized WSN networking stacks build on top of the PHY and MAC provided by 802.15.4, adopting those two layers either outright or with some modification.  We will now discuss the three most prominent alternatives, starting with ZigBee ZigBee ZigBee is a protocol that is more-or-less designed to ride directly above the 802.15.4 PHY and MAC layers providing NET and APP layers to yield a complete protocol stack.  As is the case with all 802.15.4-based systems ZigBee is designed for low-power, low-data rate applications.  The ZigBee prot ocol has gone through several iterations to date, the most recent of which is the ZigBee 2007 specification.  ZigBee 2007 defines two protocol stacks.  The first is simply called \223ZigBee\224 and is very similar to the previous singlestack ZigBee releases.  It is designed for light-duty use in the home and the office \(e.g home lighting control\.  The second, called \223ZigBee PRO\224 is a more robust protocol designed for industrial control applications.  It provides more reliable performance but requires implementation of a la rger and more complicated protocol st   ZigBee defines three classes of devices: ZigBee Coordinators \(ZC\, ZigBee Routers \(ZR\, and ZigBee End Devices \(ZED\work has one ZC, which is responsible for network formation and which can also aid in message routing.  ZR\222s also participate in routing and can run a sensing/actuation application as well.  ZED\222s only run applications and cannot participate in message routing \226 each ZED must report to either a ZR or the ZC [5,6  ZigBee uses the 802.15.4 PHY and MAC layers directly and the 2007 version allows for some limited frequency agility in the PHY layer, so that radios can be automatically switched away from problem channels when throughput falls off.  Regarding the NET layer, both ZigBee Coordinators and ZigBee Routers participate in multi-hop routing of messages; ZigBee End Devices only address messages to their associated parent routing device, which is found within their radio transmission range.  With these device roles, a ZigBee network can have one of three topologies: \(1\ar, where all non-coordinator devices report directly to the coordinator;  \(2\ere all ZOD\222s report to a routing device, and routing devices communicate up and down a tree of routing devices in a well-defined hierarchy crowned by the ZC; and \(3\esh, where both ZOD\222s and routing devices are free to communicate with any other routing device within radio range.   While ZODs are allowed to periodically cy cle into a low-power sleep mode in networks using 802.15.4\222s limited duty cycling feature, ZR\222s must in general always remain awake.  Some limited provision for ZR duty cycling does exist using the 802.15.4 \223beaconing\224 mechanism, which attempts to establish a crude synchronization among nodes, though the period of sleep/wake cycles is limited by the inability of low-cost ZigBee hardware to maintain precise timing Beaconing in general also re quires longer wake times from    While ZigBee has found a market in home and office settings, the protocol has not been as widely embraced by the industrial process measurement and control industry even in its more robust ZigBee PRO form.  It has been found that the solely contention-based MAC is not able to reliably provide the message delivery required by critical industrial applications.  Since 802.15.4-based sensor nodes occupy the shared industrial, scientific, and medical \(ISM RF band, they can expect to observe transmissions for a variety of protocols with higher radiated power, such as IEEE 802.11 and Bluetooth.  In the presence of such traffic the 802.15.4 MAC will always b ack off, potentially leaving the nodes unable to get the channel access required to send time-critical messages in a timely manner.  This is exacerbated in situations wher e a great deal of multi-path reflection is to be expect   As a result, a pair of standards for high reliability wireless networking of sensors in very difficult RF environments has emerged  WirelessHART  The first, WirelessHART, is specified in the HART Field Communications Protocol, a long-established device measurement and control protocol in industrial automation Revision 7 of the protocol augments the formerly wirebound HART with a wireless data delivery mechanism based on the 802.15.4 physical layer.  WirelessHART is designed from the ground up to enable wireless sensing and actuation in very harsh industrial environments, where communication over the wireless network must have reliability comparable to wireline communication.  It also assumes that wireless assets will be deployed where wired assets are difficult to place, so that WirelessHART devices must be able to operate for a long time on a single set of batteries  WirelessHART uses the 802.15.4 PHY, operating in the 2.4 GHz band and employing D SSS channel coding.  A significant departure is taken from the 802.15.4 MAC in the WirelessHART specification, however.  The WirelessHART MAC,  based on the Time-Synchronized Mesh Protocol \(TSMP\ginally developed by Dust Networks, Inc., employs time-division multiplexing of the channel rather than the carrier-sensing and random backing off of the 802.15.4 MAC.  This alternative MAC design was motivated by the extremely hostile radio-frequency \(RF 


  4 environments that WSN\222s are likely to encounter in industrial environments.  Industrial deployments can be expected to be plagued by RF interference from other wireless systems such as Wi-Fi networks and cordless phones, RF noise from machinery, physical obstruction of radio paths between devices, multipath effects between sources and receivers, and node losses due to depleted battery supplies and environmentally unfriendly operating conditions.  In addition, these effects are likely to be highly time-variant, precluding an a pproach that attempts to compensate by carefully calibrating a network to account for conditions at the time of its deployment.  A robust, agile system capable of working around changing ambient conditions must be desi   The cornerstone of the WirelessHART MAC is time division multiple access \(TDMA the channel, rather than the CSMA-CA approach taken by the 802.15.4 MAC.  This first requires time synchronization among nodes, which is maintained by embedding time offset information in acknowledgement \(ACK sent to confirm successful reception of messages.  Piggy backing this service on ACK packets allows TSMP to avoid expensive beaconing approaches for synchronization such as in the 802.15.4 MAC.  Once a pair of nodes is synchronized, a schedule can be established for communication.  Time is divided into slots, and proper synchronization allows for agreement between the pair on slot start time [9  Next, the nodes must decide which sub-band of the 16 available in the 2.4 GHz PHY they will use.  To do so, they agree on a start point in a sequence of channels.  Beginning at this channel, at each new slot the pair switches to the next channel in the sequence.  If two nodes find that they are unable to communicate on a poor-quality channel in a given slot, they need only wait one slot-length for a new chance to communicate.  Blacklisting of channels with repeatedly poor performance is supported so that these can be skipped in the slotted sequencing of channels   Each receiving node in TSMP sends an ACK to the sender upon successful reception.  Shoul d the sender not receive an ACK, it may switch to an alternate neighboring node on its 223parent\224 list and re-try the transmission. This parent list records valid next-hop neighbors for a given destination and is formed when the sending node initially joins the network Each parent\222s entry in the sending node\222s parent list is mirrored by the node\222s entry in that parent\222s corresponding 223child\224 list.  Since alternate parents occupy different points in space, this adds an elemen t of spatial diversity to the overall MAC scheme.  Furthermore, since the re-try to the alternate parent will be at a later time-slot and on a different frequency, the scheme also features time diversity and frequency diversity.  Finally, the direct sequence spread spectrum channel coding in the PHY layer adds code diversity, for a system with a great deal of diversity and hence, agility in coping with difficult wireless environments   In fact, data transport in a well-form ed W i relessHART network is typically greater than 3-sigma \(99.7300204 reliable, and can approach greater than 6-sigma 99.9999998   All nodes in a WirelessHART network are full-function devices capable of routing multi-hop traffic.  Thus, all WirelessHART networks form full mesh network topologies.  Note that, while each node is a router, each can also be efficiently battery pow ered due to the aggressive duty-cycling that the TSMP protocol allows \(< 1% time full-power Nodes can peri odi cal l y be put i n t o a l o wpower \223sleep\224 states with thei r radios powered down, since time synchronization guarantees that when nodes \223wake\224 and power up their radios, they will all be doing it at the same time.    Graph routing tables are computed by a central network manager and distributed to nodes on routing paths so that they know which neighbors are their next-hop parents on the path to the requested destination node. The number of parent choices av ailable at each node can be varied depending on the criticality of the route [9  Finally, WirelessHART supports application messages which conform to the HART device communication protocol.  In an adaptation of WirelessHART to spaceflight applications, however, this layer would likely be ignored instead treating the payloads of WirelessHART packets as generic buffers for application data  ISA100.11a  WirelessHART has become the first robust standard on the market in industrial automation, but following its introduction an effort began in ISA to develop a standard suitable to a wider class of plant control networks than just those made of HART devices.  The first standard to come out of the ISA100 wireless group is ISA100.11a, which provides a wireless backend suitable to use with all manner of legacy device communication protocols at the application layer.  ISA100.11a is in the final stages of ratification and should be released sometime in late 2009 or early 2010  ISA100.11a shares many aspects in common with WirelessHART, including a TDMA MAC scheme based on Dust Networks\222 TSMP algorithm, and in fact many features found in WirelessHART are designed into ISA100.11a The ISA protocol aims to provide a larger set of options however, for industrial WSNs.  Specifically, ISA100.11a reintroduces a contention-based MAC along the lines of original 802.15.4/ZigBee specifi cation in addition to the WirelessHART-like TDMA-based MAC to enable higher throughput when desired.  While this CSMA-CA option will suffer the same ill effects as ZigBee in difficult RF environments, it will allow sensor nodes to have greater bandwidth in more friendly environments.  Thus, balancing of reliability and throughput is possible, with the option of trading reliability for throughput in more harsh environments or achieving higher throughput in environments that are more friendly to low-power wireless 


  5 networking.  Additionally, ISA100.11a supports a more simple class of non-routing device, whereas WirelessHART requires that all devices be capable of routing network traffic.  While this limits the number of alternative paths available in the network, it does allow designers to trade off device cost for routing redundancy.  Several other distinctions of varying importance exist between the two protocols,  such as details regarding security, wired plant backbone networks, and the inclusion of packet fragmentation and re-assembly in   The co-existence of these two advanced industrial WSN protocols seems likely.  A working group within ISA100 has been investigating a merger of the standards, and this continues to remain an eventual possibility.  In the interim dual-boot devices are likely to provide a solution to coexistence:  nodes may be able to boot either the ISA100.11a stack or the WirelessHART stack as designated during their commissioning, with code blocks common to the two protocols shared by the  implementations of each  4  E XPERIMENTAL M ETHODOLOGY FOR COMPARING STANDARDS  We began our investiga tion of IEEE 802-15.4-based protocols by using off-the shelf WSN hardware from Crossbow, Inc.  These parts used the 802.15.4 PHY and MAC layers directly and were configured in a star topology with each node reporting directly to the network base station.    This configuration is analogous to an instance of the ZigBee protocol stack, configured in a star topology below the application layer Moreover, nodes were operated at their full duty cycle, so th at they did not periodically enter a low-power \223sleep\224 state.  Nodes were mounted in the Lunar Habitat Wireless Testbed \(LHWT\n the foreground of Figure 1.  The LHWT resides at Johnson Space Center in Houston, TX and serves as an environment for testing the co-existence of multiple wireless systems in a closed, reflective environment si milar to that expected in a habitable environment on the lunar surface or on orbit For, a test application, we chose wireless micrometeoroid orbital debris \(MMOD\mpact detection, which provides quite a challenging problem for a wireless data acquisition system.  Nodes monitor singl e-axis accelerometers mounted perpendicular to the habitat hull for high frequency transient signals corresponding to impact events.  Signals may then be analyzed for feat ures of interest useful for solving problems such as impact localization.  In this example, however, nodes merely attempted to acquire sample points from the transient impact signals at the maximum sample rate afforded by their onboard analog-todigital \(A/D\ers.  Measurements were summarized into packets that were then sent to the base station for display and logging The results were rather disappointing, and stemmed from two main sources: \(1\ of communication reliability afforded by the 802.15.4 MAC and \(2\he processing architecture of the sensor nodes used in the experiment Regarding the communication reliability, when the network was configured to operate in a 2.4 GHz sub-channel that happened to be shared with another wireless system \(e.g., an 802.11 local area network\y able to send packets to the base station.  In many cases, nodes dropped connectivity with the base station entirely.  Even when the network was re-configured to broadcast in a less crowded 2.4 GHz sub-band,  nodes would occasionally suffer excessively long communication latencies with the base station.  This behavior confirms the criticism of the 802.15.4/ZigBee MAC with regards to the lack of frequency agility in the available sub-bands Regarding the processing architecture, the high-bandwidth requirements of MMOD data acquisition proved to be quite illuminating.  We used a calibrated \223pinger\224 to generate impacts on the hull, and we verified through the use of accelerometers and a wired data acquisition system that the impacts generated highly repeatable accelerometer traces across multiple experiments.  However, when analyzing the results gathered from the wireless sensors, we found that the recorded signals were far fro m uniform.  In several cases nodes missed the transient event entirely, reporting only background signals over the course of the experiment.  In others, samples indicated widely varying peak magnitudes although maximum values should have been nearly consistent when using the calibrated pinger  Although the accelerometers used with the Crossbow nodes do not have a high enough bandwidth to capture transient impact signals without some under-sampling, aliasing is not sufficient to explain the cases where nodes missed ping events entirely.  Further inve stigation into the architecture of the code running on the nodes revealed the likely cause to be the method of task scheduling on a   node's embedded microprocessors.  Simply put, to capture high-frequency events such as MMOD impacts, nodes must be able to sample their sensors constantly without interference from other tasks, such as servicing the network stack.  When nodes use a single microprocessor to co-ordinate both data acquisition and networking, hi gh-frequency transient events are likely to be missed either in part or in total.  This motivates a new sensor node architecture more suited to both robust signal acquisiti on and robust networking  Forward Plan  In response to these shortcomings, we have designed a new wireless sensor platform which should serve as a robust research and development tool for evaluating WSNs in a variety of contexts.  The platform is modular, allowing components to be changed out to enable investigations concerning competing WSN protocol stacks, data processing algorithms, and sensor modalities.  The design is shown in the diagram in Figure 2 


  6  Figure 1: Lunar Habitat Wi reless Testbed \(foreground at Johnson Space Center in Houston, TX  The core of the new node, referred to in the figure as the main board, manages the data acquisition and processing.  It contains a low-power microcontroller, off-chip expandable memory, and the node\222s power supply. The microcontroller on the main board schedules sampling of the board\222s sensors \(using its own A/D module\he sensed data prior to transmission The main board interfaces with a radio module.  Typically a commercial off-the-shelf \(COTS\ponent, the radio module consists of a second microcontroller, radio circuitry and antenna assembly.  The radio module fully implements the  networking stack for the protocol under investigation and interacts with the main board mainly through transmit and receive commands over a hardware interface \(e.g serial bus With an integrated main board and radio module, the core of a multi-purpose sensor node is complete.  We can then add an application-specific sensor card, containing all the sensors needed from the application under investigation as well as auxiliary hardware such as digital signal processing chips or more advanced A/D components when application requirements exceed the comput ation and signal processing capabilities of the main board\222s microcontroller.  In such a scenario, the microcontroller may be used primarily to schedule the distributed sensing tasks, leaving the bulk of data acquisition and analysis to these more powerful secondary modules The goal of this modular design is twofold.  First, it allows us to build a WSN \223developmen t kit\224 that can quickly be customized to meet new distributed sensing needs for applications research.  Second, it allows us to interchange radio modules implementing different WSN protocol stacks while running the same front-end sensing applications to meaningfully compare the capabilities of different protocols and standard implementations We plan to interface this design with radio modules implementing both the WirelessHART and ISA100.11a stacks, for which COTS components are now coming to market.  Using this platform, we intend to pursue the following lines of investigation 200  RF issues How reliable is the data delivery of these advanced industrial WSN protocols in practice?  How resistant are transmissions to multipath and other RF interference? What are achievable throughput rates? How well does this system co-exist with other 2.4 GHz devices such as wireless LAN 200  Power issues How power-hungry are these protocols in practice? Do they achieve operational lifetimes on the order of years as advertised?  How does the sensing task affect battery lifetimes?  How do scheduled and event-driven sensing differ in their power requirements  200  Application issues How feasible is it to accurately sense high-frequency transient events Can timing information derived from the CDMA MAC be used to accurately synchronize timestamping of measurements across nodes  200  Protocol issues How will future protocols improve upon WirelessHART and ISA100.11a e.g., next-generation ZigBee\  When the market matures, which standard or standards will be best suited to spaceflight applications?  Will modifications of standards be necessary 5  C ONCLUSIONS  Standards-based WSN protoc ols developed for demanding industrial environments hold much promise for aerospace applications.  They have been designed to cope with extremely difficult RF environments to provide highly reliable data delivery and operational liftimes on the order of years using only onboard batteries.  Preliminary research verifies the shortcomings of protocols relying solely on the CSMA-CA MAC of 802.15.4, such as ZigBee, and encourages further investigation into newer protocols with TDMA MAC options, such as WirelessHART and ISA100.11a.  Using a modular platform dividing the processing load of sensing and networking between a pair of processors, we intend to fully investigate these protocols from both network and applications research angles 


  7  Figure 2: architecture of sensor node under development; radio and sensing modules interface with a main controller board R EFERENCES   IEEE standard 802.15.4-2003, http://standards.ieee.org getieee802/download/802.15.4-2003.pdf  IEEE standard 802.15.4-2006, http://standards.ieee.org getieee802/download/802.15.4-2006.pdf  IEEE standard 802.15.4a-2007, http://standards.ieee.org getieee802/download/802.15.4a-2007.pdf  223ZigBee and ZigBee PRO: W h ich Feature Set is Right for You?\224, Embedded.com, Oct. 2008 http://www.embedded.com/design/210700316   J.K. Young, \223C l eari ng Up t h e M e sh About W i rel e ss Networking Topologies\224, Embedded.com, Aug. 2008 http://www.embedded com/design/networking 210200649 \(part1\bedded.com design/networking/210200676 \(part 2   i kipedia, http://en.wikipedia.org wiki/Zigbee   e   Synchronized Mesh Protocol \(TSMP   irelessHART Technical Data Sheet\224, HART Communication Foundation http://www.hartcomm.org protocol/training/resources/wiHART_resources/wirelessh art_datasheet.pdf  223IEC 62591 Indust ri a l com m uni cat i on net works \226 WirelessHart Communication Network and Communication Profile\224, International Electrotechnical Commission \(IEC\ document 65C/532/CD, 2009  J. Song, S. Han, A.M M ok, D. C h en, M Lucas, M  Nixon, W. Pratt, \223WirelessHART: Applying Wireless Technology in Real-Time Industrial Process Control\224 Proc. IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium, 2008, pp. 377-386  T. Lennval l S. Svensson, F. Hekl and, \223A C o m p ari s on  of WirelessHART and ZigBee for Industrial  Applications\224, Proc. IEEE Intl. Workshop on Factory  Communication Systems, 2008, pp. 85-88  223W i r el ess Sy st em s for Indust r i a l Aut o m a t i on Process Control and Related Applications\224, International Society of Automation \(ISA\andard 100.11a, Draft 2a, 2009    B IOGRAPHY  Raymond Wagner leads the wireless sensor network research and development program at NASA's Johnson Space Center, and he is involved in related programs for development of wireless communications systems for habitat and surface operations.  He has been with Johnson Space Center since the Fall of 2008, prior to which he earned his Ph.D. in electrical engineering at Rice University in Houston, Texas with a thesis concerning distributed data processing algorithms for wireless sensor networks.  His research interests include wireless sensor networks, digital signal processing, computer networking and wireless communications   


in both sectors Proposition #17: The more information shared the stronger grows the relationship among partners Content Management Even more than in commerce, website content management was found to pose a major challenge in government. Quite a few participants pointed out that government agencies were lacking a sound STRATEGY for the management of content. The experts referred to the growing complexity of public web content along with government?s obligation to make public information publicly and reliably available. Government agencies obviously try to strike a balance between citizens? need for information and the extent of government services to provide that information electronically. Document Life Management, the management of document flows, as well as the proper ARCHIVING of electronic records and removed web content along with previous versions of websites were mentioned repeatedly as major challenges in e-Government content management. Frequently mentioned was also the lack of web content in languages other than English. While web content management in eCommerce was also reported to be a major challenge, it seemingly had a lower degree of complexity and urgency in part because the legal requirements in this area were far less demanding. In e-Commerce, customer profiles and transactions in progress were enabled to trigger the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 presentation of select content, and content was found to lead into certain types of transactions with certain groups of potential customers. On basis of mining transactional data and maintaining very detailed customer profiles eCommerce organizations it was found had developed a HIGH SOPHISTICATION in fine-grained market and customer targeting. Structured transactional data and nonstructured content was reported to be increasingly joined in ways that sophisticated searches had become possible yielding a plethora of relevant information to identify new marketing opportunities. Also, customer relationship management \(CRM customers to keep their profiles updated such that more targeted approaches with pinpoint accuracy could be performed Proposition #18: Content management is more challenging in government than in the private sector due to volume of information and complexity of linked content 4.3 Stakeholders Relations Additional thematic analysis did not yield additional major concepts than previously reached in pilot. This demonstrates that the cluster is reaching a maturity stage in terms of developing a theory. Three areas needing attention appeared in e-Government: i collaboration and iii to E-Commerce, which mainly emphasized DIVERSITY OF STAKEHOLDERS only Governance in E-Government Relations The governance narrative reflected an ongoing concern in the e-Government side regarding management and CONTROL OF GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE. This appeared particularly important due to a clear border between elected officials and nominated professional staff. While POLITICAL SWINGS may help projects keep going, they may also require more explanations from the professional levels about the rationale of EGIS projects and the ways to measure their effectiveness [32] The importance of governance was also reflected through emphasizing POWER STRUGGLEs among different stakeholders to achieve their particular interests and the fear of stakeholders from losing control Proposition #19: Stakeholders governance structure 


Proposition #19: Stakeholders governance structure influences ECIS and EGIS design and deliverables Proposition #20: The process of convincing topleadership to support an EGIS project is harder than in private sector Diversity of Stakeholders This ties up nicely to the next narrative, diversity of stakeholders. To achieve a stable and balanced governance structure one needs to balance relationships among different types of stakeholders, elected and nominated officials, political and professional staff, and federal and local stakeholders. This objective becomes even harder when the boundaries of the system are rigidly fixed for a long period, most of the professional staff retains, the needs are vast and the interests are quite different from each other, pulling into different directions 12, 24]. For example, participants reported the fear to partner with ?a too big city?, and to create dependency on their resources and governance structure. Diversity appeared as a critical issue also for the e-Commerce sector due to shaky, temporary and unstable partnership structures. TRANSACTION-DRIVEN PARTNERSHIPS is the main reason for these weak partnership structures. When value of transaction determines the partnership, ad-hoc coalitions appear with different sizes, resources and political power. While partnerships of these sorts help to cover weaknesses of partners, they also make it harder to find a common denominator in shared set of goals Consequently, this increases the fear of partners, that the partnership can be unbundled at any given moment Proposition #21: The structure of alliances in eCommerce is weaker than the structure of alliances in eGovernment Collaboration as a Critical Component of EGovernment Finally COLLABORATION and INVOLVEMENT of stakeholders in the process were regarded as of highest importance in the e-Government sector. Collaboration was a necessity of many governmental entities, due to diversity of stakeholders and the need of scaling resources to better serve citizens. For example, while small cities benefited from array of information systems offered to them by bigger cities, bigger cities benefited from such collaborations by providing a better service to citizens reducing the cost of EGIS and provide a more standardize structure and control of process Proposition #22:  Government stakeholders tend to collaborate on mid-to-long terms while stakeholders in the private sector tend to collaborate on short-to-mid terms 4.4 Citizen/Customer Focus Citizen/Customer Needs CITIZEN/CUSTOMER NEEDS define much of the way processes and deliverables of technologies are designed both in e-Governement and e-Commerce. Nevertheless there is a big difference in the way these needs are being regarded and the reason for understanding them. The pilot highlighted the robust process B2C implements to deliver a product or a service: understand CUSTOMER NEEDS through mechanisms of surveys and TRACKING behavior gathering this information makes it possible for companies to focus on HIGH VALUE CUSTOMERS and to TARGET SEGMENTS OF CUSTOMERS according to personal characteristics; creating TAILORED BRANDS and services to these particular segments of population; finally, since needs are DYNAMIC, companies have to repeat this process. The main goal of the above illustrated process is to target customers according to their needs and lock them in with the service/product these companies suggest Needs serve in B2C as an instrumental good since is they Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


6 are valued because they lead to something else, a bottomline result, while for G2C needs of citizens serve as an intrinsic good, that is they are valued for their own sake In G2C needs evolved around the desire and obligation to serve these, for example through providing MORE SERVICE ON THE WEB, and a ONE STOP SHOP, one locus addressing and serving citizens needs. The technology in this case serves as the instrumental value to reach a better level of service to more people and to enhance consistency of content toward a CITIZEN-CENTRIC APPROACH. A concern raised in this context was that citizens are unaware that eGovernment services exist or consider them not to be on a high-level standard like the ones belong to the private sector Proposition #23: In both the private and public sectors designing information systems is highly influenced by customer needs, or citizens? needs respectively Proposition #24: Targeting customers via identifying individuals or groups is more sophisticated and frequent in e-Commerce than targeting citizens in e-Government Creating a Strong Customer Experience The other side of the coin of revealing the customer needs in B2C is creating these needs through shaping the CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE. While traditionally marketing were the one mainly interested in the customer experience perspective, recently other departments including R&amp;D joined in shaping and creating this experience. Companies understand that the experience determines much of the transaction or future activities of customers. Experience is a complex concept and companies try to reduce uncertain part from their point of view, the part that they cannot influence in the customer experience. Some aspects might be controllable by the companies, e.g. creating a SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT, enhancing an EASY and CUSTOMIZED online experience, and partially learning how to work with customer EMOTIONS effectively through the technology. There are some aspects that can be analyzed but less transformative, for example the CORE VALUES a customer assigns to an experience. An important note is that this issue was not found and raised in the eGovernment focus groups discussions Proposition #25: Creating and understanding a customer experience is more likely to be found in eCommerce than creating and understanding a citizen experience in e-Government Proposition #26: The higher the enhancement of the social environment of the customer, the more likely it is that the experience will be stronger Citizen Participation Understanding needs and evolving experience is a different matter than involving the customers in the process of developing a product or a service. Involving customers is reported to be prevalent in Web 2.0 applications [7, 37] but according to our findings, which involved other B2C interactions, it was totally ignored On the other hand e-Government assigns citizen participation in the process a high weight and importance Nevertheless, they make sure that the border between participation and control is not blurred. In other words G2C encourages PARTICIPATION in the decision making but not shifting the decision to the citizens Proposition #27:  Participation of citizens in G2C processes and in the design of EGIS is higher than participation of customers in B2C and ECIS, respectively 4.5 Digital Divide/s Similarly to first pilot conducted, we found that the cluster of digital divide was very minor to non-existent in terms of weight it was given by e-Commerce focus group while it served a big portion of the attention in their counterparts from the e-Government sector. The public 


sector is well aware to this issue and defines it through levels, first and second levels digital divide/s [3]. The first level of digital divide/s focuses on lack of infrastructure private and public and more generally it deals with ACCESS from a technological point of view. The secondlevel of digital divide/s refers mainly to the usage level From the users/citizen point of view it includes the lack of SKILLS or AWARENESS as to how to use information communications technologies effectively and efficiently From the government point of view it focuses on how to make content ACCESSIBLE \(e.g., content that would be accessible by people with disabilities challenge of accessibility from a LANGUAGE perspective that is not yet implemented. The pilot manifested that eGovernment is more focused on the second-level of digital divide/s, that is more on the content, than the traditional one E-Commerce marginalizes and neglects the concept of digital divide/s. It is of less importance to this sector since the drivers are transactions. For example localization of content will occur if a market exists and there is a demand from consumers. The concept itself implies a certain criterion of social responsibility, which contemporarily many companies like to brag about. This pilot demonstrates that words are nice but they are not applied necessarily in the interactions of companies and consumers. It emphasized differences in justifications to the existence of e-commerce vs. e-Government entities business and economic sustainability vs. service and executing policy. Digital divide/s is a ?nice to have concept to e-Commerce and is a top-priority challenge to e-Government Proposition #28: Addressing the challenges of the digital divide/s is more likely to be found in eGovernment than in e-Commerce Proposition #29: Addressing second-level digital divide/s takes more attention in EGIS projects than firstlevel digital divide/s 4.6 Discussion and Summary We set out to investigate, identify, and characterize the similarities and differences between e-Commerce and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 e-Government since we believed that the findings from such a study would benefit academic knowledge and eCommerce and e-Government practice alike. In the following we discuss and summarize our observations and insights Similarities between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #1 According to our findings both ECIS and EGIS benefit their respective organizations significantly more when the underlying workflows and processes are not only electronic re-embodiments of their paper-based antecedents but rather streamlined, simplified, or completely discarded and replaced by different workflows and processes, which take full advantage of the technology. This seems to be increasingly understood in both commerce and government. We also found completely new workflows in both sectors, which would not have been possible without ECIS and EGIS A great incentive for streamlining and redesigning workflows and processes we found in the increased degree of collaboration within and between the sectors which has become possible in an instantaneous fashion through ECIS and EGIS We further found that collaboration between partners within and across sectors works better when it unfolds on the basis of formal agreements. In government, it was noted that imposed collaboration works poorly as opposed to collaborative engagements based on freedom of choice Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on 


Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on ECIS/EGIS reduces cost and speeds up the process on both ends even if the private-sector partner provides systems, infrastructure, and maintenance Along with transactional collaboration and integration we found increasing collaboration within and across sectors also in the area of information sharing. If collaboration thrives, we saw even the partial alignment of strategic objectives as a result. Information quality played a critical role in this context. A positive feedback between perceived IQ, information sharing, and the strength of the relationship seemed to exist We found in both sectors that similar governance structures of organizations influenced how collaborative ECIS and EGIS were designed. Remarkably, in both sectors the perceived needs of citizens \(and customers respectively sytems. In e-Commerce, organizations were interested in providing a social environment, which was conducive to a positive experience as a customer These findings suggest that ECIS/EGIS-related phenomena have important characteristics in common which go beyond the mere technical resemblance of systems and methods. Process redesign practices might be a worthwhile subject of further study. Likewise, practices and principles of organizational and technical collaboration appear to provide valuable experiences to be shared Differences between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #2 However, we also found formidable differences in practices, principles, and drivers between e-Commerce and e-Government Transaction processing was found more sophisticated and of far higher volume in commerce than in government. On the other hand, information processing and management, including the archiving of electronic records we found much more developed in the public sector than with private firms. The drivers of innovation were stronger in e-Commerce than in a e-Government however, the overall sophistication of EGIS did not appear to lag behind ECIS by orders of magnitude. Yet private sector firms were found to make far more elaborate use of historical data and data in processing in order to optimize desired organizational outcomes than government agencies. Lower information quality was also found to lead to more immediate and economically more negative effects in e-Commerce than in e-Government Still, governments struggled more than commercial organizations to maintain acceptable levels of information quality leading to far greater challenges, for example, in content management Interestingly, leadership in government appeared to be more supportive of \(in particular, collaborative projects than their commercial counterparts. It also appeared that collaborative structures in the public sector were markedly stronger than those in the private sector Although many EGIS initiatives seemingly greatly cared about citizens? involvement and participation, we found that private firms had an edge in creating a customer experience.? Almost in contradiction to this finding, we noticed that citizens were far more influential in the design of EGIS than customers were in the design of ECIS. At this point, we refrain from speculative explanations for the lack of a sufficiently large base of data Overall, what we found different between eCommerce and e-Government suggests that the two phenomena follow different trajectories despite many similarities and technical commonalities. One obvious explanation lies in the sector-specific differences, which produce different drivers also in this area. It will be 


produce different drivers also in this area. It will be interesting to analyze to what extent Enterprise  Resource Planning \(ERP introduced in government, may help align the trajectories between e-Commerce and e-Government to a higher degree than we found in this study Surprise Findings The process of involving diverse participants and the rich data that evolved from the focus groups illuminated few important phenomena, which need to be discussed One strident finding is the absence of discussion or reference to the issue of ethics both in the e-Government and e-Commerce focus groups. A whole array of clusters Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 emerging from the discussions \(e.g., information management and digital divide not raise any challenges or concerns related to normative decisions of right and wrong. The prevalence of information technologies and usage involves many questions of ethics. Managers gathering and analyzing personal and sensitive information on customers government officials deciding to implement information systems according to political constraints, and accuracy and level of information quality provided to customers and citizens are few examples of the inter-linkage between ethics and e-Government and e-Commerce Striping decisions and strategy from a system of values and norms may be more easy and beneficial in the short horizon, but in the long run may cause inherent difficulties in managing e-government or e-commerce initiatives Another problematic phenomenon we found is the disregard of issues of digital divide/s by the private sector The public sector makes many efforts to understand and address needs of diverse groups in society. EGIS hels the public sector to reach growing portions of the population more efficiently and effectively, through for example providing information in different languages or making information more accessible to populations with disabilities. The private sector, on the other hand, may address indirectly issues of digital divide/s, including issues of access and usage, but only if economic profitability is attached to these needs. Digital divide/s was not raised in the private sector as a concept, because it is not addressed directly, but as a by-product of other initiatives Limitations and future research In our samples of participants from the two sectors we found after the focus groups were conducted that eGovernment experts on average were from higher levels in the organizational hierarchy than e-Commerce practitioners who were more technically oriented and versed. Our results, hence, may be skewed that they represent more strategic perspectives in e-Government and more operational/tactical perspectives in eCommerce We also recognize that what we present here is the result of an exploratory study based on a limited number of participants. Our study attempts to lay theoretical foundations for more quantitatively oriented research on the subject, which will lead us to more generalizable results. We plan to use the twenty-nine propositions developed here in a successive study aimed at closing that gap 5. Acknowledgement We are indebted to our two graduate students Tim Carlson from the Master of Science in Information Management \(MSIM doctoral program who helped us prepare for and conduct this research 6. References 


6. References  1] R. N. Anthony, Planning and Control Systems; a Framework for Analysis. Boston: Division of Research Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University, 1965 2] S. Arthur and J. Nazroo, "Designing Fieldwork Strategies and Materials," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 109-137 3] K. Barzilai-Nahon, "Gaps and Bits: Conceptualizing Measurements for Digital Divide/S," The Information Society, vol. 22, pp. 10, 2006 4] K. Barzilai-Nahon and H. J. Scholl, "Similarities and Differences of e-Commerce and e-Government: Insights from a Pilot Study," in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Ed. Waikoloa/Big Island, HI: IEEE, 2007, pp. 92c\(1-10 5] B. Bozeman, " Exploring the Limits of Public and Private Sectors: Sector Boundaries as Maginot Line.," Public Administration Review, vol. 48, pp. 672-674, 1988 6] Y.-P. Chang and J. Yan, "Positioning in a New Dynamic ECommerce Business Model," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing \(WICOM 2007 IEEE, 2007, pp. 3592 - 3595 7] E. Constantinides and S. J. Fountain, "Web 2.0: Conceptual Foundations and Marketing Issues," Journal of Direct, Data and Digital Marketing Practice, vol. 9, pp. 231-244, 2008 8] J. W. Creswell, Educational Research: Planning Conducting, and Evaluating Quantitative and Qualitative Research, 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Merrill, 2005 9] S. S. Dawes, "Interagency Information Sharing: Expected Benefits, Manageable Risks," Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, vol. 15, pp. 377-394, 1996 10] G. DeSanctis and M. S. Poole, "Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory," Organization Science, vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 11] H. Finch and J. Lewis, "Focus Groups," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 170198 12] L. S. Flak and S. Nordheim, "Stakeholders, Contradictions and Salience: An Empirical Study of a Norwegian G2g Effort," in Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, \(HICSS39 eGovernment Track 75tig 13] G. E. Gorman, P. Clayton, M. L. Rice-Lively, and L Gorman, Qualitative Research for the Information Professional: A Practical Handbook. London: Library Association Publishing, 1997 14] T. L. Greenbaum, The Handbook for Focus Group Research, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 15] T. L. Greenbaum, Moderating Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Group Facilitation. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 16] A. Groenlund, "State of the Art in e-Gov Research Surveying Conference Publications," International Journal of Electronic Government Research, vol. 1, pp. 1-25, 2005 17] A. T.-k. Ho, "Reinventing Local Governments and the EGovernment Initiative," Public Administration Review, vol 62, pp. 434-444, 2002 18] M. Janssen, G. Kuk, and R. W. Wagenaar, "A Survey of Web-Based Business Models for E-Government in the Netherlands," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 25 pp. 202, 2008 


pp. 202, 2008 19] C. Kaylor, R. Deshazo, and D. Van Eck, "Gauging EGovernment: A Report on Implementing Services among American Cities," Government Information Quarterly, vol 18, pp. 293-307, 2002 20] C. H. Kaylor, "The Next Wave of e-Government: The Challenges of Data Architecture," Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, vol. 31 pp. 18-22, 2005 21] R. Klischewski and H. J. Scholl, "Information Quality as the Capstone of E-Government Integration, Interoperation and Information Sharing," Electronic Government, an International Journal, vol. 5, pp. 203-285, 2008 22] R. A. Krueger and M. A. Casey, Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Applied Research, 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 23] E. Madriz, "Focus Groups in Feminist Research," in Handbook of Qualitative Research, N. K. Denzin and Y. S Lincoln, Eds., 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000, pp. 835-850 24] A. Mathie and J. C. Greene, "Stakeholder Participation in Evaluation: How Important Is Diversity?" Evaluation and Program Planning, vol. 20, pp. 279-285, 1997 25] L. Mohan and W. K. Holstein, "Eis: It Can Work in the Public Sector," MIS Quarterly, vol. 14, pp. 434-448, 1990 26] E. W. T. Ngai and F. K. T. Wat, "A Literature Review and Classificatiuon of Electronic Commerce Research Information &amp; Management, vol. 39, pp. 415-429, 2002 27] W. J. Orlikowski and D. Robey, "Information Technology and the Structuring of Organizations," Information Systems Research, vol. 2, pp. 143-169, 1991 28] R. Park, "Measuring Factors That Influence the Success of E-Government Initiatives," in 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 IEEE, 2008, pp. 218 - 218 29] M. Q. Patton, Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods, 3 ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications 2002 30] H. Rainey, R. Backoff, and C. Levine, "Comparing Public and Private Organizations," Public Administration Review vol. 36, pp. 233-244, 1976 31] J. Ritchie, J. Lewis, and E. Gillian, "Designing and Selecting Samples," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 77-108 32] K. A. Schildt, S. Beaumaster, and S. Bailey, "Organization Antecedents of Successful It Management," presented at Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS'06 Government Track, Kauai, 2006 33] B. C. Stahl, "The Paradigm of E-Commerce in EGovernment and E-Democracy," in Electronic Government Strategies and Implementation, W. Huang, K. Siau, and K K. Wei, Eds. Hershey PA: Idea Group Pub., 2005, pp. 1-19 34] A. L. Strauss and J. M. Corbin, Basics of Qualitative Research: Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1998 35] Y. Wang, J. Li, P. Liu, and F. Yang, "Electronic Commerce Research Review: Classification and Analysis," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications Networking and Mobile Computing, \(WiCom 2007 Shanghai, PR China: IEEE, 2007, pp. 3505 - 3508 36] M. Ward and S. Mitchell, "A Comparison of the Strategic Priorities of Public and Private Sector Information Resource Executives," Government Information Quarterly vol. 21, pp. 284-304, 2004 37] M. Zajicek, "Web 2.0: Hype or Happiness?" presented at Proceedings of the 2007 international cross-disciplinary conference on Web accessibility \(W4A 2007 


  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





