  1 Implementation of a Relay Coordination System for the Mars Network Daniel A. Allard Jet Propulsion Laboratory  California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena, CA 91109 818-354-4344 Daniel.allard@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227Mars network relay operations involve the coordination of lander and orbiter teams through long-term and short-term planning, tactical changes and post-pass analysis 1  
2 Much of this coordination is managed through email traffic and point-to-point file data exchanges.  It is often difficult to construct a complete and accurate picture of the relay situation at any given moment, as there is no centralized store of correlated relay data  The Mars Relay Operations Service \(MaROS\being implemented to address the problem of relay coordination for current and next-generation relay missions.  The service is provided for the purpose of coordinating communications sessions between landed spacecraft assets and orbiting spacecraft assets at Mars. The service centralizes a set of functions previously distri buted across multiple spacecraft operations teams, and as such greatly improves visibility into the end-to-end strategic coordination process. Most of 
the process revolves around the scheduling of communications sessions between the spacecraft during periods of time when a landed asset on Mars is geometrically visible by an orbiting spacecraft.  These 223relay\224 sessions are used to tran sfer data both to and from the landed asset via the orbiting asset on behalf of Earthbased spacecraft operators  This paper will discuss the relay coordination problem space, overview the architecture and design selected to meet system requirements, and describe the first phase of system implementation  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 
1 2  P ROBLEM S PACE 1 2  A RCHITECTURE 6 2  I MPLEMENTATION 7 2  C ONCLUSIONS 11 R EFERENCES 12 B 
IOGRAPHY 12 1  I NTRODUCTION   Modern Mars surface missions rely primarily upon relay orbiters to provide delivery of uplink commands and   1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10/$25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1510, Version 1 Updated November 1, 2010 sequences as well as downlink of science and engineering data products. Martian relay first saw use by the Mars Exploration Rover \(MER\issions, utilizing the Odyssey and Mars Global Surveyor \(MGS\pacecraft as relay 223providers\224 [1  A pri m ary dri v 
er for the use of relay is the scarce power availability of lander spacecraft and the high power cost of direct-to-eart h \(DTE\transmissions, verses the lower power cost of lander-to-orbiter relay and higher power capabilities of the orbiters.  To date over %98 percent of MER data has been delivered to Earth by relay, and Phoenix was completely reliant upon relay over the life of the mission.  Odyssey has so fa r carried the brunt of relay operations, however the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter MRO has joined the relay picture in support of Phoenix operations and more recently MER  Use of relay by the Phoenix mission exposed a number of deficiencies in the legacy pr ocess.  In particular it was challenging to make sense of the overall state of relay at any 
given moment in time.  The Relay Data Engineering \(RDE effort [1 was i m p l e m en ted to prov id e au t o mated track i ng  of planning and pass performance data over the Phoenix mission era, however without additional significant upgrades to the planning syst em architecture it was difficult to complete the true \223picture\224 of the relay state  Following the end of Phoenix it was decided that a new system would be implemented to provide core multimission coordination capabilities for relay utilization planning and post-pass assessment.  This system would be architected around a central data base of relay information in such a way as to provide a high level of \223situational awareness\224 of relay process state 
 This paper will describe the architecture and implementation of MaROS including overview of the information problem space and implementation approach 2  P ROBLEM S PACE  The first phase of MaROS development supports the strategic relay coordination process as well as post-pass assessment.  The primary day-to-day operational users of the system are the lander and orbiter teams; however, multimission planning and management are also expected to derive value from the system  Primary driving requirements include the following 


  2   The system must provide users with the mechanisms to identify relay opportunities based on geometric view periods between spacecraft in the relay network.  Lander and orbiter teams need to be able to negotiate pass utilization in a dynamic fashion over the course of a monthly relay process   The system must calculate predictions of uplink and downlink data \223latencies.\224  Uplink latencies represent points of time before which the lander team needs to provide an uplink product to the orbiter team for delivery to the orbiter on the desired overflight pass.  Downlink latencies are predictions of the times that the first and last bits of data from a pass will be made available to the lander ground data system for processing   The system must identify conflicts between pass utilization requests by lander teams for and the corresponding acknow ledgements by orbiter teams   The system must report as-flown results of overflights \(relay passes\ and compare these to any predicts \(data volumes, gains, latencies, etc   The system must provide a visualization of the relay data picture so that the relay \223situation\224 is clearly understood by everyone involved in the relay coordination process.  Note that nearly all data are time-based and thus a timeline is a useful way to visualize this data   The system must track and report all modifications of the data set  This process involves several stages   Submission of system constant parameters such as Ground Data System \(GDS\ uplink and downlink processing times  Submission of light time data  Submission of orbital geometries  Submission of formal requests from the lander team to the orbiter team  Submission of acknowledgements by the orbiter team  Submission of post-pass analysis data including pass volumes and performance profiles  These data types will be described in greater detail in the following section  Relay Coordination Information Space  MaROS must ingest, persist and calculate a range of data types to provide an accurate corr elated picture of relay state This information is a primary driver for the resulting information architecture, particularly relational object and database structures  In this first phase of development, all data interactions with MaROS are completely executable using only file-based transactions. MaROS must integrate with several legacy ground data systems, and building around a file-based interface minimizes the impact of integration with these legacy systems.  Input and output formats include Extensible Markup Language \(XML\ [11 C o mma Separated Value \(CSV\and some legacy text formats Future phases of the service will likely include update of data by graphical user interface and direct service calls  The following describes the types of information managed by the system  Light Time Data   Light time data are a series of calculations of the time it takes light to travel to Mars and back at any given moment These times change as the Earth and Mars move closer to and fa rthe r from each other over the course of their orbits It is provided via a legacy text-based file format and is utilized in the calculation of data transfer latencies between Mars and Earth  Lander View Period Geometries   Lander view period geometries represent potential relay opportunities as such are fundamental to downstream calculations and processes. The geometry includes important  data such as the start and end times of a view period, the maximum elevation of the pass, and lander orientation data.  Based upon the available view period geometries, lander teams identify the set of requests to make on the orbiters  Overflight Identifier  Overflight passes are identifie d with a descriptive, unique identifier that helps users and system software correlate and report information about the pass.  The pass identifier is built from concatenating with underscores the hailing craft ID \(e.g. ODY\, the responding craft ID \(e.g. MRA\, year day of year and the pass number of that day. The current operations style is such that the orbiter is always the hailing craft, and so a pass ID might look like this  ODY_MRA_2008_266_03  This ID would mean, \223Odyssey hailing, MER-A responding, year 2008, day of year 266, third pass of the day.\224  The overflight ID could be generated at the first point that view periods are provided to the system.  However, longrange calculations of view period geometries are not necessarily accurate, especially for low-orbit spacecraft such 


  3 as the Mars Reconnaissance Or biter that is affected by atmospheric drag.  The total number of passes per day and the time ranges of those passes can vary greatly from the initial calculations to the final set of passes.  Therefore the IDs are not generated until a later point in the process when the lander team is prepared to begin requesting passes for utilization  Orbiter Events  Orbiter events are a set of time-based information relating to a specific orbiter.  These in clude time windows of Deep Space Network \(DSN d downlink antenna tracks 223non-relay\224 periods when an orbiter is not capable of performing relay, and changes in orbit number and transmission data rates.  This data is used in the calculation of uplink and downlink latencies, the identification of conflicts arising from requests during non-view periods, and for display with other time-based data  Ace Schedule   The Ace Schedule is a tabular set of data describing the staffing profile of the relay Ace position.  During nominal operations, a relay Ace is required to ensure the delivery of lander forward link data products to the orbiter. The schedule data is used primarily by MaROS in the calculation of the nominal uplink latency described below  Overflight Summary   A primary output of the MaROS is the Overflight Summary File \(OSF\This summary describes the \223state\224 of the relay space, and the contents vary a ccording to the phase of the process and any filters applied to its\222 download.   Data in this file includes geometric orbit times, latency calculations conflicts, requests, and acknowledgements.  Lander and orbiter teams typically use this data in the generation of overflight requests and acknow ledgements.  The OSF is provided in XML and CSV formats  Orbiter Requests  The lander team\222s desire to utilize a specific pass for relay is expressed in the form of a \223request\224 to the orbiter team Requests are typically generated from geometric data such as that extracted from an OSF.  Pass times are often adjusted from geometric times to \223mask\224 off the ends of the view period when the orbiter is nearest the horizon.  Lander teams provide a number of additional parameters as part of a request including lander-specific relay session configuration parameters and surface craft orientation  Once orbiter requests are submit ted to the system they can be extracted as part of an OS F and are also viewable via a Graphical User Interface \(GUI\eline  Overflight Acknowledgements  Once lander teams identify a set of passes for requests orbiter teams review the list and respond with a set of 223acknowledgements.\224  Nominally, acknowledgements closely or exactly match requests, however there are times when all or some part of a request cannot be implemented For example, an orbiter may not be able to transmit at the requested data rate.  Acknowledgements can be exported as part of the OSF and are also viewable upon the timeline GUI  Uplink and Downlink Latencies  Important considerations for the use of a pass are the forward and return \(uplink and downlink\pass latencies One function of the MaROS is to calculate latencies in response to data being provided to the system  Uplink Latencies  Uplink latencies represent the time before which the lander team needs to provide the fo rward link product for delivery to the lander via and orbital relay pass.  Multiple uplink times are calculated for each pa ss to in support of \223nominal\224 operations as well as for off-nominal and emergency situations.  All uplink latency calculations incorporate the availability of uplink DSN passes.  The following uplink latencies are calculated by MaROS   The \223Nominal Uplink Time\224 represents the time by which a lander team must provide the forward link product with enough margin to not unduly impact the orbiter team operations schedule.  This time takes into consideration staffing of the Ace role that person responsible for ensuring the delivery of the uplink product to the relay spacecraft   The \223Drop Dead Uplink\224 tim e includes the margin for uplink processing but does not take into account available ace staffing.  This is typically only referenced in off-nominal situations   The \223Last Bit Uplink\224 time represents the last possible time that the uplink product can be delivered and have any chance of being completely receive d by the relay spacecraft.  This is typically only referenced in emergency situations  Downlink Latencies  Science teams are always eager to receive their science products as quickly as possible.  This drives the need for ground data systems to process and deliver data products to science as quickly as they can be made available.  However with orbiters such as Odyssey, there is no trigger in the ground data system to indicate that data delivery has begun or has finished, and so lander teams rely upon a set of predicted downlink latencies to drive data processing.  The following downlink latencies are calculated by MaROS  


  4  The \223First Bit Downlink Time\224 is the moment when the first bit of a downlink pass is available in the lander team\222s telemetry database.  At this point mission teams can being viewing streaming telemetry values and get a first idea of the state of the pass  The \223Last Bit Downlink Time\224 is the point at which all data has been received by the lander team.  This is typically the point at which science products can be manufactured out of raw telemetry data In the legacy system, the Odyssey mission team provides latency calculations including the time that an uplink needs to be provided to the orbiter team and the predicted first and last bit times that telemetry data will be received on the ground.  With MaROS, late ncies are calculated for all orbiters using common algorithms  One major challenge of MaROS implementation is the maintenance of accurate latencies in spite of a highly dynamic data set while at the same time minimizing time spent in latency computation Planning Warnings  A planning warning describes a situation where use of a given pass at a certain time could result in an eventual conflict.  Many planning warnings involve periods of time where multiple spacecraft are in view of each other.  For example, if an orbiter is in view of two landers over the same time period, both of those landers might request the same overflight at the same time, a situation that the current generation of relay orbiters cannot support.  Planning warnings can be identified as soon as a set of view periods is provided to the system Conflicts A \223conflict\224, unlike a warning, is identified to be a situation that could result in the lander request not being capable of completely executing.  Some example conflicts include  The acknowledgement having data different from the request, including hailing start and end times data rates and relay session configuration parameters  Request times spanning a period where the lander does not actually have visibility with the orbiter 223non view periods\224  Requests spanning times when the relay orbiter is not available for relay, regardless of visibility 223non-relay periods\224\, possibly driven by orbital mission science activities or problems Conflicts represent situations that must be addressed by lander and orbiter teams for the successful implementation of relay.  For this reason, e nd-users are notif ied of conflict identification at the moment they are detected  Scorecards   The scorecard is a \223snapshot\224 of the state of the pass once it is complete.  The scorecard includes information such as the total number of bits, frames and packets uplinked and downlinked, the average transmitter power levels and the windows of time when the DSN antenna was in lock with the orbiter antenna.  Both the lander team and the orbiter team provide scorecards  Overflight Performance Assessment   Performance assessments take the form of time-ordered sets of data, or \223profiles\224, either of predictions or measurements of any of a variety of overflight performance parameters These include information such as elevation angle transmission power, and frames received.  These profiles are typically plotted together on the same timeline to identify issues with the pass  Off-Nominal Relay  223Expect the unexpected\224 in the world of relay   An orbiter may suffer a failure that restricts or prevents the use of relay for a period of time at any point in the cycle.   This may be represented by data in the form of a \223non-relay period\224 orbiter event provided by the Orbiter team, which may further submit an updated acknowledgement set to 223deny\224 previously requested passes over that time   Miscalculations or change s in orbiter trajectory may invalidate previously published geometric vi ew pe riods.  Lander view periods, requests and acknowledgements will become misaligned and data updates to \223repair\224 the problem may be submitted in any order  Changes in relay may occur at an y time during the process These drive the need for the system to handle publication of data in nearly any order  The Relay Coordination Process  In the first phase of MaROS deployment, relay coordination involves the upload and download of a set of data files containing the different types of information described above.  The following table lists the input and output files managed by the service   File Type Acronym Content Light Time File LTF Light times to and from 


  5 Earth and Mars Orbiter Sequence of Events File OSOE DSN Antenna tracks transmission data rates system configuration parameters Lander Orbital Propagation Timing Geometry LOPTG Geometric pass data Overflight Summary File OSF Correlated report summarizing information published to MaROS Output Ace Schedule None Staffing schedule for flight mission controllers 223aces\224 Orbiter Request File ORF Lander desirements for relay utilization Overflight Acknowledgement File OAF Orbiter team agreements Scorecard None Post-pass statistics Overflight Performance Assessment File OPAF Pass predict and actual data  Table 1: Relay Coordination Files  These files are uploaded and/or downloaded over the course of a monthly relay cycle The following diagram loosely depicts the coordination process through the execution of the overflight    Figure 1: Overflight Lifecycle  Configuration data and light time information can be provided to the system long in advance of the overflight Light time data in particular can be calculated years in advance of a pass  The LOPTG, OSOE and Ace Sche dules are provided to the system in advance of pass utilization, allowing for early identification of planning warnings and calculation of latencies  With key baseline data in place, lander teams may now start the \223short term\224 process by deciding upon a selection of passes to request for utilization.  Teams can request OSF files containing geometric and timing information \(such as latencies\d in turn provide ORFs with the desired set of relay passes identified  Orbiter teams are notified as each ORF is submitted and respond in turn with an OAF indicating whether the specified requests are accepted, modified or denied.  Major differences between the requests and acknowledgements are flagged as conflicts and conflict notifications are delivered to subscribed orbiter and land er team members.  At this point, lander teams may continue \223negotiating\224 pass requests by submitting follow-up ORFs to the system and the orbiter teams may respond with any number of OAFs Eventually lander and orbiter teams settle on a pass 


  6 utilization schedule and the orbiter teams implement the relay passes with the orbiter  Once the pass is complete, lander and orbiter teams provide Scorecards and other assessmen ts \(i.e. OPAF\pass performance  The overall process latency is kept to a minimum by automated notification of system updates to end-users.  For example, orbiter teams typically subscribe to notification of lander pass requests  Note that this diagram shows only one \223nominal\224 process Different orbiter and lander teams could potentially provide data in nearly any order to the system and at different rates  2  A RCHITECTURE  Architecture Style  MaROS is architected in the st yle of a centralized database and presented as a \223service\224 to end users and external systems.  This is in contrast with the legacy system approach, which was essentially a set of point-to-point file transfers supported by em ail-based notifications The centralized database style matches well to the asynchronous interactions of lander and orbiter teams and enables the desired accountability of information, as all the information that needs to be accounted for is stored in the sam  Deployment MaROS server components are deployed to institutionally maintained hardware visible to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\ight operations network.  This hardware includes a set of standard software packages and support for MySQL databases.  The system provides and load balancing and backup functions enabling MaROS to meet key operational performance requirements such as a high level of accessibility and minimal down times Database  The chosen approach to the pe rsistent store is to use a relational database, specifically MySQL.  Relational databases are used widely in industry and there is a general level of familiarity and accept ance of them by JPL ground data system teams. MySQL in particular has been used for operational tasks for years and has shown a high degree of reliability over that time Client Access to Data Client systems require access to a broad set of data using command line and web UI clients.  Certain architectural considerations must be addressed before data interfaces are implemented First there is the question of whether or not to allow clients direct access to the data as it is represented in tables.   The primary benefit of this approa ch is that users can take advantage of the full expressiveness of the SQL syntax for queries.  However, once client applications are implemented using data queried directly from tables, any changes to those tables may impact clients in unexpected ways.  This greatly affects the ability of the database schema to evolve over time, essentially exposing the schema as an external interface Rather than expose the schema directly, the MaROS system provides access to service requests that report data according to pre-defined struct ures, with a limited set of filters available to apply.  Shared information is provided to clients as structured \223objects\224 often composed of data from multiple relational tables \(and at the same time hiding the manner of that composition The next consideration is how to provide the service interface to clients.  One approach would be to implement a client library and provide that library to clients.  This is not a desired approach as user software will always be dependant upon including the library and this limits the technologies that can utilize it \(e.g. a Java library will require a Java application to use it\an 223implementation agnostic\224 approach is desired, preferably one that has seen use elsewhere in the software industry Two broadly used \223implementation agnostic\224 industry approaches to extern al transactions are the use of SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol\ST Representational State Transfer SOAP is an XML based W3C standard protocol used to transfer \223objects\224 of information from one point to another [3 R E ST i s a pattern of use of http, wher e \223resources\224 are published and retrieved using basic http GET and POST [4   SOAP is a relatively complex protocol and typically clients require additional libraries to deal with it, and in some prototyping performed demonstrated poor performance as compared with the equivalent da ta transactions using REST On the other hand, using REST is largely a matter of constructing URLs that map to the specific resources of interest.  Furthermore, REST is seeing growing use by JPL systems For these reasons, REST is chosen as the method of performing remote service transactions Layered View  With these basic considerations out of the way we construct a layered view of the architecture and discuss the components of the system 


  7  Figure 2: Application Architecture At the highest level is the client layer.  There are two types of clients, web based and command-line.  The goal is to implement these clients as thin layer as possible and defer all data processing issues to the lower layer service.  For the command line client, this is relatively easy to achieve, as the command line client is used for simple transactions such as 223publish 1 to n files\224 or \223fetch the overflight summary from time A to B\224. On the other hand, the web GUI cannot be implemented as independently of the information space as the command line client, as a pr imary use of the GUI is to provide visualization of the rela y data space.  For example field names on tables are hard-coded and mapped to fetched parameter values The transaction layer handles the ReST service calls from external clients.  This relatively thin layer is exposed in the architecture to minimize impact of the external interface approach on future versions of the software.  For example, if at some later point the SOAP protocol was embraced, only this layer would be impacted by the change Below the transaction layer is the \223information service\224 layer.  This layer performs all of the business logic of the service, including upload l ogic, latency and conflict calculations, email notifications and output data correlations.  The remainder of the discussion will focus on the functions of this layer At the very base of the arch itecture is a relational DBMS Data is stored in tables.  The database provides short and long term persistence for the system.  As mentioned before no direct access to this layer is provided to external clients Security  Authentication and authorization is handled at the transaction layer.  User identity is validated using an institutional Lightweight Direct ory Access Protocol \(LDAP service [5  U s er  au tho r ization to perform specific transactions and access groups of data is handled by maintaining a mapping of users and user groups to specific mission sets and types of transactions.  For example, one user may be authorized to publish Phoenix orbiter event files, and another may only be allowed \223read only\224 view access to specific mission data The original implementation of the security component was written in PHP with the rest of the transaction interface however this implementation when integrated with the Java added some unnecessary complexity to the application structure 2  I MPLEMENTATION  2.0 Overview This section will review the components of the system 223bottom-up\224 to discuss primary functions, design and implementation decisions 2.1 Database Structures  A MySQL database provides persistent store of all data in the first phase of implementation. The information space is broken down into tables, with a table or set of tables representing system objects All relay data is related to the source file it was provided with.  Derived data is related to the sources from which it was derived.  For example, when the ORF is generated it is required to contain all of the source files that went into its making.  This includes \223raw\224 data such as view period geometries, requests and acknowledgements.  But it also includes derived data such as latencies and conflicts, and those can be calculated from data that is not actually included in the OSF.  Ther efore the sources of the calculation generation need to be maintained in parallel with the actual computations The following diagram generalizes data relations in the schema  


  8 Figure 3: Generalized Relations For most information types a single table is enough to represent the object, including view periods, ace schedules and requests.  Each insert or update of an object record is tracked with an entry in a corresponding source file or manual update table to meet the requirement of tracking all data modifications An additional relation is between calculated objects and their sources.  On the web GUI and in the OSF, calculated latencies and conflicts need to be matched with the passes they were calculated from.   The overflight ID would appear to be an easy way to relate th e sources and the calculations However, in several cases the overflight ID is insufficient For example, latencies are calculated upon the submission of view period data, however those view periods don\222t have the overflight ID generated yet.  Another reason is that there are multiple types of requests \(tentative, proposed and formal\e overflig ht ID but each with its own associated set of latencies and conflicts The following diagram shows the relationships of planning warnings and overflight conflicts to source object tables with some key parameters included  Figure 4: Warnings and Conflicts Relations Note that each conflict or warning has a pair of identifier references, a \223primary ID\224 and a \223secondary ID\224.   This is because each warning or conflic t is calculated \223pair-wise\224 Even if, say, three view period geometries overlap, it would result in two warnings \(one for each pair\te also the inclusion of an additional source file table.  This allows the service to map the warning or conflict back to the file of the source without having to query the source object to look up its source file 2.2 Information Service  The information service layer handles all of the business logic.  It is responsible for managing the upload and download of data to and from the service and for calculations and notifications.  Much of the job of the service layer is to execute specific upload and download logic upon request for publication and download of data This logic interacts with the database persistent store managing and encapsulating data as intermediary Java objects This service layer is written in Java version 1.5 Information Upload  The MaROS accepts the publication of a number of data file types.   When files are published to the system, upload logic is executed specific to the input data type.  Generally there are two forms of data upload: \223delete and replace\224 and 223insert and update\224.  For data types such as the light time file and orbiter events file, data received via a new upload file replaces data in the database over the same time range and for the same set of orbiter and landers.  For data types such as requests and acknow ledgements, existing records with the same pass identification \(i.e. same overflight ID the input data are updated rather than replaced, as the new data may not contain all of the parameters already present in the database and it is desired that the existing parameters be maintained unless explicitly cleared.  For example, a request in the database may contain a full set of data parameters while the new published data may only contain changes to specific fields such as the orie ntation or hail times.  The new data upload will only affect the fields included in the input file One important early consideration was to decide whether to perform derived data calculations for latencies and conflicts upon data publication or retrieval.  Triggering calculations upon retrieval would simplify the database architecture by removing the need to track and store such values.  However it would introduce additional latency on the data retrieval and with multiple users requesti ng data it increases the total number of calculations.  With calculations triggered upon publish the results need to be stored in the database for later retrieval.  This minimizes the total amount of computations performed and helps to minimize the latency of data retrieval.  For these reasons the MaROS system performs calculations as data is published rather than retrieved Once data upload is complete, a set of triggers is executed to perform calculations and deliver notifications.  The following diagram shows the process flow of the upload 


  9  Figure 5: Upload Process Flow Information Download   The service layer performs extraction and correlation functions in the download of the Overflight Summary File OSF\ in the delivery of relay information to the web user interface in JSON format  The download of the OSF is a sp ecial case as far as triggers are concerned.  A \223formal\224 do wnload, specified as an input parameter to the service, triggers the generation of overflight IDs over the time range of the requested file  One important download function supporting download for OSF and data for the web GUI is correlation of data to data sources.  This includes not only the mapping of data to the providing source files, but also the mapping of derived conflict and latency data to the related view periods and requests  Notifications   At the end of upload data processing, notifications are published to alert end-users and systems that some form of data transaction has been completed.  Users subscribe to notifications via the web UI  In the first phase notifications consist of emails sent subscribed users.  They consist of any requests or acknowledgements published to the system as well as any conflicts detected  Later versions of the service will provide notification via Java Messaging Service \(JMS\ Within JPL, JMS servers are widely available on the fl ight operations network to drive ground systems automation functions  2.3 REST Transaction Layer The REST transaction layer handles http service requests performs user authenticatio n and interfaces with the information service layer for upload and download of data The transaction layer was originally written in Hypertext Preprocessor \(PHP\7 PH P i s a l i ght wei ght we b sc ri pt i n g  language that can be embedded into html, and there is use and familiarity with the language by local ground data systems The REST interfaces were built rapidly with PHP over the course of the development cycle and were easy to update However, using PHP for the tr ansaction layer and Java for the service layer introduced some complexity and latencies into the picture.  The initial design had the PHP executing a Java application with each REST call.   This introduced the latency of the Java virtual machine startup and shutdown times.  This latency was readily apparent from the web GUI where each fetch call to the se rvice took an unreasonable amount of seconds to execute.  This end-to-end throughput would turn out to be the primary quality concern of the first phase One approach to mitigate this would be to keep a Java process running full-time a nd create a socket interface between the PHP and the Java.  However this adds additional, unnecessary complexity to the overall application infrastructure.  After review of some alternatives, it was decided to instead migrate the transaction layer to a Java Servlet [8 im p l e m en tati o n  simplifying and streamlining the overall infrastructure Once the Servlet was implemented and deployed, the service request latency from the web GUI dropped from ~10 seconds to one second or less 2.4 CommandLine Clients  Two command line clients are pr ovided with the first phase of development: a general file publisher and an Overflight Summary File \(OSF\downloader.   These clients are written in Python, a scripting language with very little structural overhead.  Python sees growing use by JPL ground data system elements and is available as part of common flight system third party software libraries.  Command line clients are intentionally very thin, with most script functionality performing the mapping of command line inputs to REST service transaction parameters 2.5 Web UI Client The phase 1 user interface focuse s upon the visualization of strategic and post-pass assessment data.  Primary views include timelines displaying relay events and correlated summaries of pass state. The information service provides data to the web GUI as Javasc ript Object Notation \(JSON    The GUI is written using FLEX, a language for the development of web Flash applications.  FLEX and Flash bring a great deal of rich client functionality including charts and dynamic sort-able tables.  The choice enabled rapid development of complex UI features, especially the timeline charts The web UI in turn greatly aided in the rapid development of the lower level system components.  File updates and 


  10 calculation results could be immediately verified by viewing the data on a timeline or on a chart.  Data alignment issues are especially easy to identify using the timeline, verses, say analysis of the contents of output summary files and database records  2  I MPLEMENTATION A PPROACH  This section discusses the process of development in terms of the order of components implemented and drivers for these choices.  As multiple deve lopers were involved some of this work was going on in parallel, however the nature of the information domain and business logic created a number of implementation dependencies One particular challenge in this first phase has been the volatility of interface specifica tions \(SISs\ecially for OSOE, OSF, ORF and OAF file types.   All of these specifications changed more th an once, driven largely by lessons learned from early integration and continued evaluation with service end-users Core infrastructure components were implemented first These included the PHP server infrastructure and basic data upload and download functions.  Data functions were integrated with the databa se according to an early incomplete version of the schema.  Once the basic download 223fetch\224 functionality was complete and data made available as a set of resources, work began upon the web user interface, specifically the timeline pane.  Having the timeline available would greatly simplify \223gross\224 data validity checking especially to identify correct and incorrect data overlaps.  As each new data type was made available in the database the timeline was updated to include the new information The first data types implemented were the view period data from the LOPTG and light time values from the LTF These were chosen in part because they are fundamental constructs to the informat ion architecture and for the visualization of the domain and also because the formats would not be changing during the first phase, as there was no plan to update the legacy information specification \(SIS files for these data types.   To provide this data to the system, a prototype version of the upload script was implemented, along with a simple download \223fetch\224 script to validate database content With lander view period data now available for upload and download, work began on Planning Warnings and the overall conflict infrastructure.  The warning and conflict identification code was implemented as a standalone set of Fi g ure 6: Timeline View 


  11 classes, intentionally not tightly integrated with other upload and download logic The next phase of data ingestion work included implementation of Orbiter Events and Ace Schedules These provided immediate benefits for visualization and are also used in the computation of pass latencies Next implementation began on orbiter requests \(ORF acknowledgements \(OAF\nd the downloaded summary file \(OSF\ One of the more challenging aspects of the request implementation turned out to be the handling of multiple types of requests \(tentative, proposed, requested and acknowledgements \(planned and implemented desired by the end-user teams.  The additional types added complexity to the database architecture, upload and download logic and the web visualization With a first cut of requests and acknowledgements now available the conflict infrastructure was updated to include the identification of Overflight Conflicts.  These were included on the timeline display in alignment with the corresponding view periods and requests Also, at this point all of the data was now in place to begin work on latency calculations.  An initial set of \223fake\224 latencies was first provided to support timeline visualization while the actual latency calculations were implemented Figure 6 shows the timeline with most data types present Figure 7 shows a close-up of the view period with an associated request, and ackn owledgement and latencies   Figure 7: View Period Display The Scorecard and OPAF were the last input data types to be implemented.  Once these were available to the web GUI, charts were developed to visualize the pass performance data The last major piece of functionality implemented was to support notifications, including a web UI interface for the selection of desired notification and an event reaction mechanism in the service As more and more data was provided to the timeline, the inherent latency of the PHP/Java structure became more and more apparent.  At this point it was decided to update to a Java Restlet, and with the update saw an order of magnitude performance increase 2  C ONCLUSIONS  Products Developed  The first phase of development involved the production of web components, command line scripts and core service applications.  For this phase, command line scripts provide the interfaces for strategic pl anning, while the web GUI is provided to meet system visualization and analysis requirements.   The core services perform all transaction management, business logic and data management functions Rapid development of the MaROS is a challenge that has driven some technical decisions that we look to address in the ensuing development phases Development Lessons Learned Some lessons learned from our development include 200  Besides meeting operational analysis retirements the visualization client has been critical for rapid development.  For example, the confirmation that view periods, requests and acknowledgements align is accomplished with a click of a button and a scan at a screen verses laborious comparisons of data file output.  The timeline UI has been especially valuable during integration in the resolution of issues, particularly for problems with calculated data such as conflicts and latencies 200  The PHP service did remain easy to maintain through many modifications over the course of development.  However, the additional interfaces to work with the Java add complexity and latency and so the transaction layer was re-implemented as a Java Servlet, seeing and order of magnitude improvement in throughput performance 200  Inadequate fetch throughput supporting web GUI queries is the primary outstanding quality concern Ongoing efforts will addres s this with database table indexing and an overall simplification of the service application architecture with the migration from the PHP and the removal of the Java application startup and shutdown latencies Final Words  


  12 The first phase of the impl ementation of the MaROS has been a challenging rapid development endeavor.  However the architectural choices made and the decision to develop visualization interfaces from th e start enabled the team to implement priority phase 1 requirements with the time and staffing provided the task R EFERENCES   Dani el All a rd, C h arl e s Ed wards, \223Devel op m e nt of a R e lay Performance Tool for the Mars Network,\224 2009 IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 7-14, 2009  Hohpe and W ool f, Ent e rpri se In t e grat i on Pat t erns Designing, Building and Deploying Messaging Solutions 2004 Addison-Wesley   http://www.w3.org/TR/soap    http://www.infoq.com/articles/rest-introduction    http://www.computer.org/portal/web/csdl/doi/10.1109/MI C.2004.44   http://onflash.org/ted/2008/01/what-is-flex.php    http://www.php.net    http://java.sun.com/products/servlet    http://json.org  10 Orb italHu b  http://orbitalhub.com/?cat=113    http://www.w3.org/XML  B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 19 years.   He is the software architect and a lead developer of the Mars Operations Relay Service MaROS\ under development in support of ongoing and next-generation Mars Network missions Prior to this he was the technical lead on the development of the Relay Data Engineering \(RDE system provided for accountability of relay performa nce over the Phoenix era Other recent work includes the development of a messagebased ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontology-based distributed communications in the space link and battlefield environments 


 13 Analysis of Model A The analysis of Model A gave varying results owing to the variation in the profiles of the plan view and the sectional side view. The sectional side view is diamond type unlike that of Model B which is convex in shape. Both are however, ideal supersonic airfoils The sectional side view of Model A shows a rise in pressure behind the shock wave. This is because of the oblique shock wave formation around the compression corners. A drop in pressure is noticed at the expansion corner due to the formation of expansion fan at the convex corners The top view of Model A, when analyzed in Fluent gave the following contours. Formation of a high pressure region ahead of the wing profile sh ows the formation of a bow wave. This may induce very high wave drag and may not be a good optimized model    
 


 14 Analyses of Model C Analyses of Model C were done at Mach 1 to avoid divergence in the solution. The following results were obtained. The analyzed cont our clearly shows a high pressure region ahead of the nose This is the detached shock wave that is formed as seen in the shadowgraph. A region of high pressure exists after the detached shock      
 


 15      7  C ONCLUSION  The results from experimental theoretical and software analysis validate the fabricated models to work well over the supersonic regimes. Models A and B have reduced shock strength. This advantage could be explored in the design of a transcontinental supersonic passenger airliner. The models prove to be aerodynamically efficient and have lesser wave drag However, there were a few shortcomings in this approach The fabrication of such an ai rliner at a bigger scale could 
 


 16 prove to be a challenging task. Installation of engines would have to be looked into from a different aspect This work could be extended to study various other complicated supersonic aircraft profiles; the distribution of pressure, shock pattern and shock strength can be studied Unless efforts are continued on this regard, the viability of an efficient supersonic airc raft is likely to languish  R EFERENCES  1  United States Patent - 4828204 , Supersonic  Airplane by Gottfried O. Friebel, Bellevue, Wash  2 United States Patent \226 5518204, High Efficiency Supersonic Aircraft \226 Richard.R.Tracy  3  Jones, R., 1991. \223The Flying Wing Supersonic Transport.\224 Aeronautical Journal March    A b o o k o n Gas Dy nam i c by  R a t h i n a k ri s hna n    A st udy of Detache d S h oc k wave in 2-D  by Morton      Alperin, CALTECH, 1950 6 In trodu ction to fligh t  b y Ja m e s And e rson   Ai rcra ft De si gn  by  J o hn P F i e l d i ng  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The author wishes to express his hearty appreciation to all those people who have been instrumental in successful completion of this work. The author wishes to thank the principal, Dr. J. Shanmugam and management of Velammal Engineering College for their continual support. In particular, the author wishes to mention Mr Vickneshkumar, who has been a source of constant support throughout the project and Mr. Murugan for his kind cooperation and help during the fabrication of the models The author is indebted to Mr. Palani, IIT Madras for his invaluable guidance on FLUENT software and Dr Muruganandam, IIT Madras for his kind permission to conduct the tests in the wind tunnel facility at IIT Last but not the least; the author extends his warm thanks to his father, Mr. Arun Banerjee and his family who have been a great moral support throughout the course of this work       BIOGRAPHY Arijeet Banerjee is a Bachelor of Engineering \(Mechanical Engin eering\ student at Velammal Engineering College, Anna University, Chennai  India. He has completed his senior secondary schooling under the Central Board of Secondary Education. A keen aerospace enthusiast has taken part and won various competitions at both state and national levels. Visit the author at www.arijeetbanerjee.synthasite.com  
 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





