  1 Heavy Ion Charge and Velocity Resolution with a Medipix-Based Active Space Radiation Dosimeter  Lawrence S. Pinsky, Anton Empl and Nicholas Stoffle Physics Department, University of Houston 4800 Calhoun Blvd Houston, TX 77204-5005 713-743-3552 pinsky@uh.edu  Claude Leroy and Andrea Gutierrez University of Montr\351al 
2905 Chemin des Services Montr\351al, QC H3T 1J4, Canada  Jan Jakubek and Stanislav Pospisil Institute of Experimental and Applied Physics Czech Technical University Horska 31/22 CZ-12800 Prague 2\227Albertov, Czech Republic  Hisashi Kitamura, Yukio Uchi hori and Yasuda Nakahiro National Institute for Radiological Sciences Anagawa 4-9-1, Inage Chiba 263-8555, Japan 
 Jack Miller Space Sciences Laboratory, Lawren ce Berkeley National Laboratory 1 Cyclotron Road Berkeley, California 94720  Cary Zeitlin 6 Southwest Research Institute 6220 Culebra Rd San Antonio, Texas 78238-5166   Abstract 227In preparation for the development of an active 
Space Radiation Dosimeter ba sed on the Medipix2 pixel ASIC technology developed at CERN in Geneva Switzerland, exposures were ma de at the HIMAC facility in Japan with a TimePix-based version with a Si detector layer to explore the potential for discrimination between tracks with differing charges and energies, but with very similar dE/dx values 12 Data were taken in February 2009 at 15 
degree increments for a number of different beams including 600 and 800 MeV/A Si, 180 MeV/A Ne and 100 MeV/A O. Data were also obtained for 400 MeV/A Si and 500 MeV/A Fe along with 290 and 180 MeV/A N. The TimePix chips have been calibrated to achieve the maximum resolution. One of the principal objectives of these data runs was to explore the resolution of TimePixbased Si detectors to discrimina te between various ions with 
different energies and charges, but with similar dE/dx  1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10 25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1366, Version 5 Updated November 13, 2009 values in Si.  The ongoing analysis is intended to determine the charge and energy resolution capability of the TimePixbased Si detectors.  Additional runs were made in September 2009 and preliminary analyses of the data from 
those runs are included in the re sults described in this paper There are more runs planed for January 2010, and preliminary results from those runs should be available for presentation at the conference The data show an ability to distinguish slow from fast particles as well as a capability to make reasonable estimates of the charge of a tr aversing particle.  The limit of the resolution for such measurements will require additional 
data, but the clear ability of the technology to measure the LET \(Linear Energy Transfe r particles has been shown.  The present version of the TimePix ASIC does show evidence of saturation at the highest LET levels, and this information can be used to guide the development of the next generation of the technology 


  2 T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 2  2  M EASURING C HARGED P ARTICLE P ROPERTIES 2  3  HIMAC  M EASUREMENTS 3  4  C ONCLUSIONS 5  5  A CKNOWLEDGMENTS 5  R EFERENCES 5  B IOGRAPHY  E RROR   B OOKMARK NOT DEFINED   1  I NTRODUCTION  The TimePix version of the Medipix2 detector technology  is very attractive as a basis for developm ent of a Space Radiation personal dosimeter or even as part of a general radiation area monitor for use in spacecraft or habitats on the lunar or planetary surfaces.  Any such device must be capable of sampling a radiation field that is isotropic in the sense that the incident radiation can come from any direction, and that includes a wide range of energetic charged particles from singly charged through fully ionized Fe nuclei, with the potential to also have a substantial neutron component in some situations The general properties of a TimePix-based device with a bump-bonded Silicon detector att ached have been described previously 3 4  Briefly, the TimePix is a version of the technology developed by the Medipix2 Collaboration, which is based at CERN.  It is a pixel-based AS IC wherein the electronics for each of the individual 55 m square pixels is contained within the footprint of that pixel.  The TimePix is distinguished from other Medipix2 versions in that it after the charge-sensitive pre-amp and associated discriminator in the front end it possesses a logic unit capable of being employed in one of several different modes including as a simple counter for the number of times that the externally applied common threshold value has been exceeded Medipix mode\me to Digital Convertor \(TDC\or as in the application described here, as a Wilkinson-type Analog to Digital Converter ADC.  Each pixel has its\222 own 14-bit shift register for data storage and transfer The TimePix ASIC is agnostic in the sense that it accepts either positive or negative inputs and can be attached to any acceptable overlying det ector input.  For application to the problem of measuring the properties of the radiation field in a typical space radiation envi ronment, a simple reversebiased Si detector layer work s fine.  This is because, as noted, the dominant components of that environment are very energetic charged particles.  The Si itself is not a very good neutron detector, but when coupled with converter materials such as Li for thermal neutrons or H for more energetic neutrons, the Si can detect the charged products In general, the Si must be doped to provide the p-n junctions to allow reverse biasing.  In the versions used for the measurements reported here the detector is generally bulk n-type Si, with embedded p-type Si pads arranged to correspond to the ASIC pick-up pad connection locations The Si detector in this case was nominally 300 m thick 2  M EASURING C HARGED P ARTICLE P ROPERTIES  As energetic charged particles pass through the Si detector layer, they lose energy due to their electromagnetic interactions with the medium.  Occasionally, these traversing particles may become engaged in a nuclear interaction, but that occurrence is relatively rare, and is not the focus of the present investigation.  Rather, due to the well-known processes modeled by the Bethe-Bloch equation, [4] the lineal energy loss rates are a function of both the charge-squared of the incident particle as well as that particle\222s velocity \(or energy\Given that the fluences to be measured in the ultimate application are a mixed field one must be prepared to distinguish between particles with differing charges and energies, but which deposit the same total amount of energy during their passage through the detector One common strategy is to use relatively thick detectors or layers of detectors to enable one to see the effects of the energy loss as the particles slow in passage through the detector system.  However, for a useful personal dosimeter one would like to have as compact and simple a detector system as possible, and in our case that means trying to use a single 300 m Si layer as the entire active measurement region So, we are interested in determining the resolution possible for both charge and energy by examining the \223footprint\224 cluster images left by traversing particles It should be pointed out that the Bethe-Bloch equation gives the energy \223lost\224 or \223stopping power\224 of a material, which is not the same thing as the energy deposited directly in that same medium.  This is crucial in our case because we see only the effects of the energy actually deposited.  The ray knock-on electron\rum increases in energy as the energy of the incident particle increases, which in turn increases the likelihood that some of the electrons produced in the detector Si will escape from that volume and thus not deposit that energy within the volume.  Likewise, any rays produced in the media preceding the detector Si may also carry energy into that Si that was not from energy lost by the traversing particle in the medium itself.  If that preceding medium was air, for instance as in our measurements, then the asymme try in the energy loss rates between the Si and air lead to the case where one must calculate the detailed effect in order to know what energy beams to request in order to have multiple examples of particles with the same net linear energy deposit rates in the Si detector layer employed 


  3 Figure 1 presents the predictions from the FLUKA Monte  for the species and energies explored in the measurements reported here.  Those include 100 MeV/A O 180 MeV/A Ne and both 600 & 800 MeV/A Si beams Note that the 800 MeV/A Si has approximately the same Bethe-Bloch\ineal energy loss rate as either the 100 MeV/A O or 180 MeV/A Ne.  Note also that the 600 MeV/A Si beam lineal energy deposit rate falls very close to those for 100 MeV/A O and 180 MeV/A Ne at a total value of about 0.0265 GeV, or 26,500 KeV Figure 1.  The total energy deposited by normally incident ions in 300 265 m\222s of  Si for 100 MeV/A O Black\A Ne \(Red\A Si \(Magenta and 800 MeV/A Si \(Blue\that the 800 MeV/A Si has the same Bethe-Bloch stopping power as the O and Ne beams 3  HIMAC  M EASUREMENTS  A sequence of measurements were made at the HIMAC facility at the National Institute for Radiological Sciences in Chiba, Japan with a TimePix-based device in order to explore its\222 response to several different beams all of which possessed approximately the same expected value for total energy loss in the Si detector layer.  As noted, the beams used were 100 MeV/A O, 180 MeV/A Ne and 600 MeV/A Si.  Data were taken at normal incidence and at 15-degree intervals out to and including runs with the plane of the Si detector layer parallel to the beam direction.  Due to  a change in the interface hardware and an oversight in updating the DAQ software, the bias voltage applied to the detector layer was much lower than originally planned.  The intended bias voltage for the 300 mm Si layer was supposed to be on the order of 35V, but the actual voltage across the Si during the runs reported here was only about 3.8V, which was insufficient to fully deplete the Si layer.  However, the detector performed exceptionally well in this condition and the results were still significant.  A new series of runs were performed in September, 2009 at HIMAC with the same beams and date were taken over a wide range of bias voltages and internal threshold-related settings.  The results reported here are limited to the date from the earlier runs Raw Cluster Images Figure 2 shows a colored pixel map of a typical cluster from 2 of the beams, O and Si at normal incidence, where the intensity scales use the same color scheme for each image Note that the long-range ray field is clearly distinguishable in the case of the higher energy Si image Notice also, the virtually background-free image with the threshold set to allow detection of the rays  Figure 2.  Color/Intensity pixel maps of clusters resulting from the passage of heavy ions though a TimePix-based device with a 300 265 m Si detector layer The slower 100 MeV/A O ion\222s cluster \(Left\acks the evidence present in the cluster image from the higher energy 002 ray halo particles from the 600 MeV/A Si beam Right\he Color/Intensity scale is arbitrary but common for the two images Cluster Image Total Energy Loss Analysis Figure 3 shows the distribution of total calibrated energy per cluster as measured in the TimePix ASIC.  The detectorASIC combination was calibrated using the technique described elsewhere by Jakubek et al   The val u es plotted are the sums of the calibrated total for all contiguous pixels included in each cluster Note that the measurements conform very well to the predicted distributions in Figure 1 in terms of the shape and sp read of the energy losses however, the peaks are shifted to slightly lower energies for both the O and Si distributions.  In the case of the Si clusters, the peak appears at a slightly higher energy than for the 100 MeV/A O, which may be due to the larger number of pixels in the typical 600 MeV/A Si clusters.  This is because there is a small co rrection added to each pixel to compensate for the energy lost below threshold in a Wilkinson-type ADC, where that correction may still need to be tweaked more.  The overall discrepancy between the predictions and measured values is likely due to a saturation effect with a possible cont ribution from an increased electron-hole recombination rate due to a \223plasma-effect.\224 


  4   Figure 3. These are distributions of energy from the sum of the energies in the contiguous pixels in clusters due to normally incident beams of 100 MeV/A O \(top MeV/A Si \(bottom\idths of the distributions are similar to the predictions made by FLUKA as shown in Fig. 1, but that the total energies peak at slightly lower values of ~22,500 and 24,000 KeV respectively, rather than the predicted value of ~27,000 KeV Pixel Saturation A study of the profiles of clusters formed by the collection of the charge deposited in Si during particle passage had yielded some evidence for a saturation effect.  Simple models of the charge deposition patterns show a more Gaussian type distribution from the drifting away from a line of deposite W h i l e t h e 002 ray spectra will guarantee that the volume over which the energy is deposited is spread out around a core region, the expected patterns still show a central peak in the predicted distributions.  Under no circumstances do the na\357ve models yield any predictions that the distributions might have a central dip Figure 4 shows the cross sections of cluster shapes from 180 MeV/A Ne at normal incidence to the detector.  It represents a collection of cross section from seven different bias voltages from 5.3 to 87.5 V.  The curves have been normalized with calibrated pixel values to have common total cluster energies and each curve is the average of several hundred clusters.  It has been known from the basic calibration process that some saturation effects existed at energy values below 1 MeV per pixel, and these corrections are included in the energy calibration values.  However, it is clear that the curves all show a general flat top with a central dip.  Data from the other beams show a similar behavior at similar central cluster heights  Figure 4. These are profiles through the sum of hundreds of clusters from normally incident 180 MeV/A Ne particles at seven different bias voltages.  The Vertical scale is arbitrary and linear as the curves have been normalized in total cluster energies.  The horizontal axis is in units of tenths of a pixel.  The basic flat top with a central dip is a common feature independent of bias voltage.  These curves have been assembled from energy calibrated pixel values The Wilkinson-type ADC being used to measure the charge relies on the charging of a capacitor, which is then systematically discharged by a constant current source.  A discriminator that has a digitally normalized global threshold externally supplied sees the voltage on the capacitor and time that the voltage is over that threshold is measured by counting clock pulses from an externally supplied clock.  If the charge on the capacitor becomes great enough, there may be other discharge paths that become available to bleed th e charge off of the capacitor independent of the constant current source.  One can conceive of mechanisms th at are charge-dependent implying that even larger char ges in such a condition might discharge faster than smaller ones, leading to the central dip.  If this is the case, then one should see a similar effect when the tracks are incident a angles away from the vertical at least for the pixels for wh ich the charges collected by each pixel are similar to the centr al values in the vertically incident clusters.  However, that does not seem to be the case and no such dips are observed away from the vertical It should be emphasized that the saturation effects in terms of the flatness of the peak does remain for the non-vertical tracks, and it is just the central dip phenomenon that seems to be missing That observation suggests that another possible mechanism for the dip may be present, namely a recombination effect If the charge density is great enough along the track, then the liberated charges may overwhelm the dielectric properties of the doped Si, creating a temporary local plasma-like regi In such a regi on, t h e recom b i n at i on of electrons and holes would occur at rates far higher than happens in the normal Si.  In fact, one might expect almost complete recombination in such regions.   This effect would be most dramatic in the case of vertical tracks because they Total Cluster Energies \(KeV 


  5 are parallel to the electric fiel d created by the bias voltage and thus the electrons and holes would be drifting directly through one and other.  In the case of tracks at some incident angle, the effect of the bias voltage electric field would be to expedite separation of the electrons and holes While the electronic satura tion effects causing the dip cannot be ruled out at this preliminary stage, Figure 5 gives an interesting additional perspective While both mechanisms may well be present, a single fortuitous event has been r ecorded where the acquisition time window happened to be open for only part of the Time-Over Threshold counting.  The event, shown in Figure 5 has a virtually complete lack of counts in the central-most region of the cluster.  While the TimePix can be setup on a pixel-by-pixel basis to function in a \223TDC\224 TimePix\mode, recording the number of clock pulses from the first threshold crossing after the \223Shutter\224 gate is open until it closes, this was not done for any of the data taking As such, it is not possible to tell whether the partial image resulted from an event that occurred prior to the Shutter opening, in which case only the last part of the discharging capacitor charge was recorded or the event occurred just before the shutter closed and only the initial charge on the capacitor was seen.  In the fo rmer case the event would be consistent with a saturation leakage mechanism, and in the latter case it could be an indica tion of a plasma-like effect although at this time we cannot exclude that it too could be an artifact of a saturation of the front-end electronics Future runs are planned to examine this phenomenon in greater detail and to provide guidance in designing future version of the circuits that will attempt to avoid these saturation issues  Figure 5.  Our so-called \223volcano event\224 is a cluster produced by a normally incident 500 MeV/A Fe beam particle during which the TimePix acquisition \223Shutter\224 was only open for part of the charge collection time The two possibilities are that the event started before the Shutter opened and only the tail end of the Time-OverThreshold counting was recorded, or the Shutter closed just after the start of the charge collection process  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The TimePix version of the Medipix technology shows significant promise to be of great use as a detector to characterize the space radiati on environment including the heavy ion components.  Measur ements made recently at the HIMAC Facility in Japan have indicated that there is a good prospect to develop algorithms that can parse the cluster shape information to distinguish individual charges and energies with reasonable resolution for dosimetry applications.  However, this running also produced data that indicate a saturation effect for the most heavily ionizing tracks that must be understood in order to guide modifications in future version of the technology 5  A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  The provision of the beams by the National Institute for Radiological Sciences in Chiba, Japan is gratefully acknowledged.  Funding has been supplied in support of this effort by the Space Ra diation Analysis Group at NASA/JSC and by the M-OSRP and the Office of Research at the University of Houston R EFERENCES   X. Ll opart M C a m pbel l R Di napol i  D San Segundo and E. Pernigotti, \223Medipix2 a 64-k Pixel Readout Chip With 55-mm Square Elements Working in Single Photon Counting Mode,\223 IEEE Transac tions on Nuclear Science vol. 49,  Issue 5,  Oct. 2002 pp. 2279 \226 2283 2] Z. Vykydal, J. Jakubek, S Pospisil, \224USB interface for Medipix2 enabling energy and position detection of heavycharged particles\224, Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research, A563 \(2006   T. Hol y E. Hei j ne, J. Jakubek, S. Pospi s i l J. Uher, and Z. Vykydal, \223Pattern recognition of tracks induced by individual quanta of ionizing radiation in Medipix2 silicon detector,\224 Proceedings of the 9 th International Workshop On Radiation Imaging Detectors \(iWoRID-9\angen Germany, 22-26 July, 2007  L. Pi nsky and J. C h ance llor, \223Development of a New Active Personal Dosimeter for Use in Space Radiation Environments,\224 Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 2007  L. Pinsky et al., \223FLUKA Status And Prelim inary  Results From the July-2005 AGS Run,\224 Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky Montana, March 2006 


  6  J. Jakubek, \223Energy-sensitive X-ray radiography and charge sharing effect in pixelated detector,\224  Nucl. Inst Meth. 607A \(2009 7 M Cam p b e ll, E. Heij n e T. Ho ly, J. Id arrag a J Jakubek, C. Lebel, C. Leroy, X. Llopart, S. Pospisil, L Tlustos, and Z. Vykydal, \223Study of the charge sharing in silicon pixel detector by means of alpha particles interacting with a Medipix2 device,\224 Proceedings of the 9 th  International Workshop On Radiation Imaging Detectors iWoRID-9\angen, Germany, 22-26 July, 2007 BIOGRAPHY Larry Pinsky is a Professor of Physics and Chairperson of the Physics Department at the University of Houston.  He does research in Relativistic Heavy Ion Physics at CERN in Geneva Switzerland as part of the ALICE Collaboration.  He was a P.I. in NASA\222s Space Radiation Shielding Program\222s Modeling Consortium.  He has a BS in Physics from Carnegie-Mellon University and an MA and Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Rochester.  While on active duty with the US Army, he served at NASA\222s then Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston dur ing the Apollo and Skylab projects where he participated in the first Light Flash Investigations and did Heavy Cosmic Ray Dosimetry.  He is also a patent attorney with a JD and LL.M. in Information and Intellectual Property Law from the University of Houston, as well holding ratings as a multi-engine instrument flight Instructor   


 standardized information architecture and data told the chief architect from the Ministry of Agriculture Fisheries and Food. In this ministry they had detailed the entity map more and more all the way down to batch numbers for a single product from a specific producer In the Public Unit responsible for coherent digital healthcare in Denmark they were in the middle of the same kind of mapping. They had started trying to cope with registration of medicine in a unified way. The architect told that they aimed for one common medicine card for every citizen. The challenge being that every single system that uses medicine should have an interface to the card Another example that was brought up was from the Danish Maritime Authority. Here there was a large and well functioning system which all stakeholders were quite happy with. The chief architect s problem was that the IT-systems w a s a black box f o r ev er y bod y  in our organization also for the IT-department The system was running on old technology so it was destined to become obsolete So we had to dig it all up again That is really the driver today that we wanted to have an architectural overview the chief architect The Enterprise architect focus group was in agreement about the importance of different levels of architecture You need to have the architecture go from strategy to the operational as one of the architects expressed it However, the group also agreed that interoperability issues were most important for them. All of them spend the majority of their time looking at interrelationships of different applications, modeling and exchanging data. Going from strategy to the operational was seen as necessary, but none of the interviewees seemed to have a crystal clear understanding of this link between business and IT The business oriented approach that e.g. Garner promotes above was not something that the chief architects nor the CIO s were overly concerned with. It was clear that they did not see the major benefits in a business architecture that is more concerned with the business context than the structure of applications and data The CIO from Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees EA as a natural continuation of planning thinking  But something has changed he continues Today it is much more natural to involve IT from the beginning of a project. It is becoming natural to relate to the enterprise architecture we have  Another issue that was discussed in the focus group was how to implement EA so that people understand it We have tried to visualize our IT strategy. We have a number of small movie sequences [multimedia pod at can  sh o w  fu n c tio n a lit y told the CIO from the Danish Prison Service It needs to come from the top adds the CIO from the DMFA When the Director sends the first email, then the head of Department is forced to answer it doesn t help that an employee starts sending emails to the Head of Department; then nothing happens Later in the focus group discussion one Enterprise architect from a different organization confessed the major challenge is involving top management  At the end of our focus groups we discussed the how the public sector context influenced EA adoption and return on investment of EA. There was agreement around the table that the public sector was special in some ways. One thing mentioned was that not only profit was the goal. There were many criteria for good performance. Another thing mentioned was the high visibility The special thing about the public sector is that any failure gets trumpeted in the press said one CIO, and all agreed that the private sector could attract better people because they could give higher salaries Provoking a discussion with the chief architects about the business case especially the expected advantages it was interesting to see that none of the participants would stand up and claim the advantages to be fulfilled It may take 10 years to pay back as one Enterprise architect said. Another one emphasized that cooperation with users of the architectural standard was extremely important There is a need for someone testing it and giving you feedback as it was said  5  Discussion  Grounded in our empirical data and Abrahamson's theoretical framework, our analysis indicates that EA in government is to a large extend driven by fashion Interviews with the former public servant \(and now EA guru nd the Gartner director, indicate that EA was "chosen" as the appropriate tool to strengthen MSTI s influence on the e-government agenda. After publishing the EA white paper in 2003, the concept enjoyed almost instant fame and attracted tremendous managerial attention in the central government of Denmark, which in turn generated a transitory collective belief that EA was efficient, and at the forefront of best practice in IS planning The MSTI was successful in promoting technical interoperability challenges as so-called performance gaps  the difference between the performance level e-government managers aspire to and the level they actually achieve. EA was new and promised improving executive decisions and resource management Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 Governments produce White Papers, statements and booklets that provide best practice advice However, promotional documents do rarely give us a full and balanced picture of what is happening on the ground like any other public management reform [6   As our focus group interviews reveal EA is not very well understood in the central government of Denmark, and nothing indicates that it is generating administrative reforms in government that would replace traditional hierarchies with leaner structures Our analysis suggests that many of the local EA initiatives are partly initiated because of pressures of symbolic meanings \(social legitimacy\nd pressures to conform to commonly adopted target objectives such as efficiency and productivity gains of using EA planning. Backed by the promises of private and public success stories, we could say that MSTI supplied the EA fashion to the agencies in the Danish central government The CIO s and chief architects in our focus groups performed EA as a technical exercise that focuses on the interrelationships of different applications modeling and exchanging data and not so much the linking of business and IT. EA is perceived as something technical and administrative transformation is therefore not driven by EA planning in itself Our findings thus suggest an interesting distinction between two elements to EA in government: a stable element of IT-architecture and a fashion driven business architecture element. The two concepts are used in parallel, but they also have distinct differences in their focus, approach and use of artifacts. Table 3 describes these two seemingly different aspects of EA Our focus group participants were all comfortable when we discussed application integration, modeling and data exchange the IT-architecture. But, when we talked about the more high-level issues of applications and data in a business architecture context they were more skeptical. The external view of software that business architecture takes - focusing on business efficiencies and process transformation and not so much on the internal workings of applications - was not perused explicitly by any of our respondents. As one chief architect put it business architecture is something that we need to have to do EA, but we don t really do it today    Table 3: IT-architecture and business architecture IT Architecture Business architecture Focus Application interaction and systems development Business efficiencies and process transformation  Approach Documentation and analysis Business process management and change management Artifacts Logical and physical data models Technical standards, etc Business process diagrams investment business cases, etc  IT-architecture has its roots in the established software engineering discipline h ile bu sin e s s  architecture is a more recent phenomena  streams take a top-down approach to design interested in the interplay between different parts that form a whole. But, their artifacts and general purpose is different. IT-architecture can be viewed as the technical documentation and description necessary for traditional IS planning. While business architecture hosts the transformative element in EA the focus on business process management and change management that promises the modernization of government institutions Thus, EA has not been able to substitute the preexisting organizational IS-governance structures in the public agencies we studied. Institutionalized habits and values reinforce existing administrative and political arrangements, and pre-existing organizational structures for traditional IS planning seem to oppose the logics of EA planning As noted by op m a nag e rs i n  g o v e r n m e n t  agencies are rarely interested in organizational change and the EA planning innovation thus gets adopted to underpin the existing organizational structures. Thus our findings suggest, that it is unlikely that the development in the public sector IS planning will resemble the development in the private sector. Public sector planning is simply qualitatively different from planning in private enterprises or industries. As noted by ning re f o r m s ca n be driv e n b y dra m a t i c  higher profits, promotions, stock price increases, and market shares in the private sector, while this can be a showstopper in the public sector where effective IS planning most often will be rewarded with budget cuts staff reductions and loss of resources Finally, an interesting finding was also the confusing mandate of EA in the Danish government The governance setup gives the MSTI no power to force EA use. What really changes the way IS planning is performed in government is institutional change at the macro-level. The MSTI push for EA only caused Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 incremental changes to the IS planning efforts in government entities. It was the External shocks  created by the Ministry of Financed that catalyzed the diffusion process \(cf. section 4.2\ in the Danish central government was supposed to guide administrative reforms, guide executive decisions, and improve recourse management. But, the transformation was a response to institutional change at the macrolevel, rather than the particular new template for IS planning in the organizations that we studied  6  Conclusion  Summing up our analysis and discussion, we found the causal direction reversed from EA being transformative and prescriptive in its nature to EA being reshaped and adopted in step with the institutional forces in public organizations and their macro environment As we have seen, IS planning innovations can change routines, structures and social values in government, but it must be understood in the context of the institutional forces that often resist dramatic changes. Public sector reforms will always be driven by political determination, while IS planning can be the enabling tool As for our research question on the purpose of EA and what has driven the use and adoption, our analysis indeed suggests that EA in government to a large extend is characterized by fashions. The EA concept is ambiguous and lacks commonly accepted definitions Our focus group interviews revealed two elements to EA in government: a stable element of it-architecture and a fashion driven business architecture element. As we have seen it seems that the formation and adoption of EA in government is driven by compliance with central guidelines and imitation of best practice  The hyperbole surrounding government modernization and transformation thought the adoption of EA planning seem to be epochal. An epochal schema of old style bureaucratic IS planning and the new EA planning agenda has considerable intuitive appeal. But our findings illustrate how individual circumstances cannot just be considered invisible or rendered insignificant. Organizational context imitation and compliance explain adoption patterns better than a universal and invariable recipe of management procedures and techniques like EA. Thus our conclusion is that EA can not transform government by itself.  Fundamental transformation to the tasks performed in organizations is only achieved if the institutional force promotes transformation  6.1. The future of EA in government  The limitation of fashion theory is its weak explanatory power. Using Abrahamson s theory [20 21  w e c a n no t  sa y ho w  l o n g a fa sh i o n l i ke E A  w i l l  stay fashionable in government or even how long it will take to become unfashionable again However, by emphasizing how EA adoption and use is not produced solely by the aggregation of individual and organizational reform agendas but by institutions that structure action, the institutional perspective offers a vantage point for understanding EA planning in government. Our findings points out how EA is not a clear-cut cure that can be adopted by any public organization with similar results. EA implementation must be understood in the organizational context it is implemented in Working with many different stakeholders, both leadership and subject matter experts, to build a holistic view of the organization's strategy, processes information, and technology assets must not be underestimated in government EA programs. Public servants and their consultants must understand the business of government and the business of their own organizations before they engage in EA To be more than just another fashion fad, future EA programs in government must provide a comprehensive and coherent view across business information, and technology; not just to guide the design of IT systems but to deliver business change supported and enabled by IT  References  1  OECD \(2005 OECD Peer Review of e-Government in Denmark www.oecd.org, last accessed June 2008    2  Hite, R. \(2003 Information Technology: A framework for assessing and improving enterprise architecture management Version 1.1\. Washington D.C.: U.S. General Accounting Office 3  Ross, J. \(2003 Creating a strategic IT architecture competency: Learning in stages MISQ Executive, 2 1 4  Peristera V., Tarabanis K. \(2000 Towards an enterprise architecture for public administration using a top-down approach European Journal of Information Systems, 9 \(4\: 252-260 5  Segars, A.H., Grover, V. \(1999 Profiles of Strategic Information Systems Planning In: Information Systems Research, 10 \(3\: 199-232 6  Pollitt, C. & Bouckaert, G. \(2004 Public Management Reform Oxford University Press 7  Zachman, J. A. \(1987 A Framework for Information Systems Architecture IBM Systems Journal, 26 83 276-292 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 8  Bernard, S.B. \(2005 An introduction to Enterprise Architecture Authorhouse 9  Spewak, Steven H. \(1992 Enterprise Architecture Planning John Wiley & Sons, Inc, New York 10  Sowa, J.F. & Zachman, J.A. \(1992 Extending and formalizing the framework for information systems architecture IBM Systems Journal, 31 \(3\ 590-616 11  Kaisler, S.H., Armour, F. & Valivullah, M Enterprise Architecting: Critical problems Proceedings of the 38th Hawaii International Conference on System sciences 12  Hjort-Madsen, K. \(2007 Institutional Patterns of Enterprise Architecture Adoption in Government  Transforming Government: People, Process and Policy 1: 4 13  Dunleavy, P. & Hood, C. \(1994 From Old Public Administration to New Public Management Public Money & Management 14  Hood, C. \(1998 The Art of the State Clarendon Press, Oxford 15  Hjort-Madsen, K. \(2006 Enterprise Architecture Implementation and Management: A Case Study On Interoperability Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2006 16  Janssen, M. & Hjort-Madsen, K. \(2007 Analyzing Enterprise Architecture in National Governments: The Case of Denmark and The Netherlands 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 17  Jones, M.R. \(1994\Don't Emancipate, Exaggerate Rhetoric, Reality and Reengineering," in: Transforming Organizations with Information Technology, NorthHolland, Amsterdam 18  Westrup, C. \(2003\. "Discourse, management fashions and ERP systems," in: Global and Organizational Discourse about Information Technology, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, Mass 19  Gregor, S., and Jones, D. \(2007\. "The Anatomy of a Design Theory," Journal of the Association for Information Systems, Vol. 8 \(2007\9 20  Abrahamson, E. \(1991\Managerial fads and fashions The diffusion and rejection of innovations". Academy of Management Review \(16:3 21  Abrahamson, E. \(1996\Management fashion". The Academy of Management Review \(21:1 22  Miller, D. & Hartwick, J. \(2002\Spotting Management Fads". Harvard Business Review \(80:10 23  Meyer, J.W. & Rowan, B. \(1977 Institutionalized Organizations: Formal Structure as Myth and Ceremony American Journal of Sociology, 83 \(1977 340-363 24  DiMaggio, P. & Powel \(1991 The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis University of Chicago Press 25  Rogers, E. M. \(1995 Diffusion of Innovations  4thed. New York: Free Press 26  Fountain, J. E. \(2002 Information, Institutions and Governance Cambridge, John F. Kennedy School of Government: Harvard University 27  Scholl, H.J. \(2005 E-Government-Induced Business Process Change \(BPC\ An Empirical Study of Current Practices International Journal of Electronic Government Research, 1\(2 28  Kraemer, K. & King,l J. L. \(2006 Information Technology and Administrative Reform: Will EGovernment Be Different International Journal of Electronic Government Research, Vol. 2\(1 29  Grönlund, A. \(2005 State of the Art in E-Gov Research: Surveying Conference Publications  International Journal of Electronic Government Research, 1\(4 30  Kling, R., & Iacono, 0. S. \(1988 The Institutional Character of Computerized Information Systems  Office: Technology and People 5\(1 31  Yin, R. K. \(1994 Case Study Research Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage 32  Fern, E. \(2001 Advanced Focus Group Research  Sage Publications 33  Miles, M. B. and A. M. Huberman \(1994 Qualitative Data Analysis: An Expanded Sourcebook 2 nd Edition Newbury Park, CA, Sage 34  Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation \(2003 Whitepaper on Enterprise Architecture Web \(In Danish: http://www.itst.dk/arkitektur-ogstandarder/publikationer/arkitekturpublikationer/hvidbo g-om-it-arkitektur, last accessed September 2008   35  Plfeeger, S.L. \(2001 Software Engineering: Theory and Practice Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11  Figure 16 \226 The loss of spat ial resolution for errors in p    The spatial distribution of th e reconstructed images is illustrated in Figure 17 for p 0.5\260 and 400nm, 425nm and 450nm As expected, the larger dispersion at the shorter wavelengths will cause a larger shif t error.  In fact, as shown in Fig. 17 the error radius can become so large that we again see donuts as point response functions in the reconstruction Final Comments Specific systematic sources of error have been presented in this section independently Obviously it is a combination these errors that will propaga te through the transform to give the final result in terms of resolution and displacement in the reconstructed hyperspectral data set.  The contribution of each systematic error source in terms of the derived r   p  or  x\222 y\222 representation can be used to create an error kernel for each given in Equations 10 and 11 multiplied in series in Fourier space or convolved in series in the spatial domain to evaluate the cumulative effect  3  C OMPARISON TO M EASUREMENTS  The effect and sensitivity of th e selected systematic errors have been shown given the mathematical models for projection and reconstruction.  Data taken from the AFIT CTI instrument will be examined to determine how well the model is capturing the modeled impact of the systematic error with controlled in strumental inaccuracies Data Collection and Analysis An effective point source will be the target for the system and is represented by a 300 m pinhole at the object plane illuminated by a combination of an Hg pen lamp and red laser pointer.  This provid es 5 clear lines at 404.7nm 435.8nm, 546nm, 577.5nm, and 635nm 5 with the first four being from the pen lamp.   Care is taken here to not suggest that this is a true validation of the model, as it is impossible to completely isolate the effect of a single source of error Furthermore, the instrument was not designed with the exact measurement of quan tities such as detector tilt or prism alignment in mind, so these qu antities have to be measured indirectly. An attempt is made to make the particular error in question gross enough to be the overwhelming contributor and variation du e to possible inaccuracy in measurement is included in the model For each instance of induced systematic error in the instrument, projections will be taken at p 0\260-345 1 5 260 increments to provide a total of 23 projections.  This data will not be reconstructed usin g the SAA algorithm as that will serve to compound the contribution of unaccounted error.  Instead, a direct comparison to the derived r   p  will be made in each case.  In assessing the model vs performance, trends in this da ta will be consid ered in favor of absolute difference.  The measurements made address effect of detector tilt and di stance error, accuracy of the dependence of p   on I and error from prism misalignment.  For the this co llected data, a correction will be made to better calibrate the system to the actual p   to avoid the spectral shift in the data Variation in Detector Array Tilt and Distance To measure the affect that til t has on the collected data, the PIMAX camera was slightly ro tated from its position to create an angle between the detector array and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Figure 6.  Because the camera was rotated about its mount point, which is displaced from detector by 70 mm, the rotation angle also  5 The 577.5 line is the average of the Hg doublet that appears here and not clearly resolved by the instrument nm Spatial Res. \(pixels 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 p = 0.10\260 p = 0.25\260 p = 0.50\260  Figure 17 \226 The 400 nm, 425 nm, and 450 nm spatial functions for p 0.5\260.  With greater dispersion, the error most affects the shorter waveleng ths as indicated in Figure 16  


  12 moves the array toward L3 providing some amount of variable d across the array.  Swiveling the camera also rotates the array away from th e image plane, so there is a hard limit on the  that can be imparted before the spectrum is off of the array  The camera is turned 4\260 in the +x-direction x 4\260\nd tilted upward y 2\260\.  The camera was moved toward L 3  by 2mm d 2mm corporating the variable distance imparted by the camera sw ivel.  It is estimated that the tilt angle of the camera can be measured to +/- 0.25\260 and that the error in from both components\within 0.5mm.  These measurement er ror estimations will be used in the model to determine a maximum and minimum range of model results.  Equation 13 will be used to calculate r   p  the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle.  For the 404.7nm source, the image was projected off of the array at p 140\260 - 200\260 thus the gap in data.  The results are shown in Figs. 18-22   Figure 18 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 19\226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 20 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 21 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 22 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 635nm spectral line   The data imply that the overall mean value of r   p  is being captured which represents the contribution of The shapes of the curves appear to match somewhat for the 404nm and 435nm cases, but the correlation for the other three wavelengths is not as cl ose.  For these wavelengths the variation in r   p  as a function of p is very small possibly due to other uncontrolled error.  Also, for these and all spatial location measurements, there is inherent quantization error in determinin g the center of the Gaussian fit function due to the phasing of the samples on the array 6  Change in p  as a Function of I  A major impact on the reconstr uction algorithm is the error in estimation of the prism dispersion angle p   due to the difference in assumed and true values of the incident angle to the prism I This drives the observed error as a result of prism misalignment, as well as the correction needed in the reconstruction to account for fiel d angle.  Here, the explicit dependence of r  on I will first be examined, then the effect of prism misalignment on I   A sample of the spectrum with the object on th e optical axis  I 0\260\n to provide a baseline displacement r for each of the 5 wavelengths in the object.  The prism mount is then successively tilted to vary I   At each step, the magnitude of I  is found by pointing a laser along the optic axis through a small aperture also centered on the optic axis The I 0\260 position is identified wh en the reflection of the laser is exactly back th rough the aperture.  At I 0\260, the laser will be reflected at an angle equal to I and will hit the  6 The system is undersampled, so that changes of less than \275  pixel in location are not reliably measured 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





