  1 Novel Star Identification Algorithm Utilizing Images of Two Star Trackers Koki Ho, Shinichi Nakasuka The University of Tokyo 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku Tokyo, Japan fang@space.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp, naka suka@space.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp  Abstract 227This paper investigates a star identification algorithm to improve the perform ance of especially a micro star tracker whose Field-of-v iew \(FOV\all. This algorithm is characterized by combining the images from two star trackers to identify the stars, rather than identifying the stars in each image separately. To improve the success ratio of star identification and attitude estimation accuracy some novel ideas are added to the algorithm, such as the 
sequence of the algorithm based on both the FOVs and the mitigation of the problem of misalignments. By simulation results, the feasibility of that algorithm is evaluated 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  S TAR I DENTIFICATION 1  3  I DENTIFICATION USING T WO S TAR T 
RACKERS 3  4  S IMULATION FOR S UCCESS R ATIO 5  5  S IMULATION FOR A CCURACY 7  6  C ONCLUSION 8  R EFERENCES 9  B IOGRAPHY 10  1 
 I NTRODUCTION  Recently, many universities a nd companies have begun to develop micro-satellites. The industries of micro-satellites are expected to get larger in se veral years. At the same time the technology for the instrument s used in satellites will also need to be developed further A star tracker is one of these instruments. Like NanoJASMINE \(Nano - Japan Astrometry Satellite Mission for INfrared Exploration\sa tellite developed by ISSL Intelligent Space Systems Lab the University of Tokyo there will be many micro-satellites which have star trackers onboard to accommodate a stri ct requirement for their attitude determination. For these star trackers, to satisfy the limits for its low cost and small size, new ideas should be introduced to the star identification algorithms. This paper 
discusses one such possible new approach, in which images of two or more star trackers are combined In this paper, the basic processes of star identification used here are introduced first. Then the identification algorithms using two star trackers are inve stigated, and the effects of  1 978-1-4244-3888-4/10 25.00 \2512010 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1052 Version 1, Updated 2009:12:24 that on the success ratio are discussed. Finally, the attitude estimation algorithms are investigated, and the effects of that on the accuracy are discu ssed. By all of them, the feasibility of the system is evaluated 2  S TAR I DENTIFICATION  A star tracker is an attitude sensor of satellite. It estimates 
the attitude of the satellite using star images. The processes of the star trackers can be divi ded into three phases, feature extraction, catalog searching, and attitude estimation. The feature extraction phase and cat alog searching phase can be defined as identification phase In the feature extraction, the feature like angular separation is extracted from the image for star identification. In the catalog searching, the stars in the images are corresponded to those in the star catalog. With these identified stars, the estimated attitude is calculated in attitude estimation In the following, the basic algorithms of the feature extraction and catalog searching used in this paper are shown Feature extraction About the first phase, feature extraction, there have been 
many studies about how information in the images should be used. In this paper, the method in which the angular separations and the brightness are extracted from the image is utilized. This method is often used for small FOV \(FieldOf-View\ar trackers, using which only a small number of stars \(<7 In that method, the pairs of the stars are made in the image and the angular separation of the pairs and the brightness of every star are used as the in formation necessary for star identification. This condition can be expressed as follows 1  
265  212 i m i k b m b k 
ssdssd  1 2 
265 212 i m b k MM 2 where b k s and b k M are the coordinates and the brightness of k th star on the body frame i k s and i k M are those on the 


265 4 1 1  265  5 INT  a eans the largest integer which is not larger than a  These n and m means the both ends of the groups which meet the condition in \(3\is means that any star pairs that are not included in n th n+1 th\205 m th group do not meet the above condition, and that any star pairs which are included in n+1 th n+2 th\205 m-1 th do meet the above condition. In conclusion, what should be evaluated using \(3\y the star pairs included in n th and m th group This method can decrease the searching time of angular separations from that necessary for searching all pairs to that necessary for searching only pairs contained by two groups. According to i n t h e exam pl e of t h e i m age wi t h   8[deg FOV and 6 as t h e m a gni t ude l i m i t  and t h e catalog with 800 groups, it needs only 80 times of calculations on average for search ing one star pair with the group catalog, though 2995128 times without the Group Catalog. This can be said a remarkable improvement of catalog searching. Note that that result only assumes the catalog searching of angular separations, and the calculations for brightness or other conditions are not included 3 stars 4 stars 5 stars 265 and 2 265 are the permissible errors Without any errors, the stars would be identified and the attitude can be determined by using only one pair, or two stars, if we assume the sate llite is close enough to the earth But actually having the information of only two stars is not enough for star identification. Therefore, in this paper, we decide to do the star identif ication calculation only when more than two stars are capture d in the image. We start the star identification from the pair of two brightest stars, whose centers of gravity are easiest to decide. Only if we cannot narrow down to one candidate for the stars even using three stars, we use the fourth star, and if we cannot do that even using four stars, we use the fifth star. However, if we use too many stars for identification, it will take a lot of time and it will decrease the efficiency of the algorithm Therefore we decide the maximum number of stars for identification, and if the stars cannot be identified even by using that number of stars, that identification is defined as unsuccessful    Figure 1 \226 Concept of the star identification using angular separations  Catalog searching The second phase, catalog search, has been researched mainly from two viewpoints The first is about which should be included in the catalog Though it is impossible to include information of all stars in the space, there are some methods to select the stars on the onboard catalog. For example, in t h e creat i on of one kind of the optimized catalogs is solved as an optimization problem. That catalog is optimized in its size under the constraint condition that more than two stars listed on that catalog are surely contained in the images of any direction In this paper, however, small and cheap star trackers with limited ability are assumed, and it is very difficult for these star trackers to capture the dark stars. Therefore, in this paper, we used the catalog which contains every star which is brighter than a certain magnitude limit The second viewpoint that is mainly researched about catalog search is about the method of searching  shows a very efficient one using a Gr oup Catalog, which we will use in this paper. In this method, a Group Catalog like Table 1 of the star pairs up to the diagonal size of the FOV  i n  angular separation is made befo rehand and is divided into a number of groups by the angular separations or cosines of them  The following is how to search the Group Catalog First, the following inequality is true 265 in \(1 Then, catalog searching can be said to be searching of y  which meets the condition of \(3\ng x earned from the image Next, find n and m which meet the following equations 1 1    2 inertial frame  b m b k ssd is the angular separation of b k s  and b m s and 1  002 212  h x INTm  002 212\212  h x INTn 265 212 yx 3 where x is a cosine of the angular separation of the star pair to be identified on the body frame y is a cosine of that on the inertial frame, or the catalog, and 265 is the permissible errors which can be derived from 1 


  3 Furthermore, a Group Catalog has another merit of its scalability in the searching time of angular separations. It is because even if the size of FOV increases, the searching time of angular separations is still the same because we still search only two groups At the same time, however there is a demerit for the method using a Group Catalog, which is the size of the catalog. This method needs a Group Catalog which has a very large size. In this paper however, we assume that there is no strict memory size limit, and do not investigate more about this question 3  I DENTIFICATION USING T WO S TAR T RACKERS  In the cases of the previous chapter, the number of star trackers was not considered. In this chapter, identification algorithms with two or more star trackers are discussed and compared with those with only one Why Two Star Trackers Ideally, with only one star tracker with a large enough FOV it is possible to identify the stars and determine the attitude Actually, however, there are some constraint conditions which make it more efficient to use two or more star trackers First, in small satellites, quite often only one star tracker captures more than two stars, which means the star identification would not succeed This happens because in small satellites with low cost, the FOV of the star trackers are often limited to a very small 3[deg 6[deg]*6[deg their small hood size and the pixel fineness Furthermore, sun blinding is also a very big problem of the cases with only one star track er. If there is only one star tracker, it would be impossible to capture any star if blinded by the sun, but if there are tw o or more star trackers, it is possible if one is not blinded There are still many other advantages of using two star trackers, which show that it is more efficient to use two or more star trackers especially for small satellites Methods of Using Tw o Star Trackers There are several methods to use two star trackers for the attitude determination. We assume here that two star trackers are away from each othe r by 90[deg] and that the FOV of each star tracker is assumed to be square-shaped The major one is shown in Figure 3, in which two star trackers identifies the stars independently \(Define that as Algorithm 1.\ this al gorithm, every star tracker calculates its i b C independently, and using the both ones the satellites\222 i b C is calculated via MLE \(Maximum Likelihood Estimation.\ethod, the accuracy will be very good because the angular accuracy around the main axis, usually far worse than that around the others, which will be discussed later, would be completely cancelled by each other  Figure 3 \226 Concept of Algorithm 1  However, to use Algorithm 1, more than two stars should be captured for each star tracker Of course even if only one star tracker captures more than two stars, it is possible to determine the attitude like usual one-star tracker identification algorithm, but it is impossible for that algorithm to determine the attitude if both star trackers cannot capture more than two stars, which is very often if the FOV size is limited To solve that problem, the algorithm like Figure 4 can be used, which we want to investigate in this paper \(Define that as Algorithm 2.\ this algorithm, the stars taken by two pictures are combined and identified together. The angular separation in the same image should be identified first and then those across the image. This is because the angular separations between the star pairs in the same image have less error since they ar e free from the effect of the misalignment. If we use Algorithm 2, it needs only three stars to be captured in total of the two star trackers, and a large number of these cases increase the success ratio of Algorithm 2  Figure 4 \226 Concept of Algorithm 2 Figure 5 shows the maximum success ratio of identification or success ratio without noises, of three cases: the conventional one star tracker algorithm, Algorithm 1, and Algorithm 2 


  4 This figure shows that using two star trackers is better than using one star tracker and that the Algorithm 2 is far better than Algorithm 1. In th 4[deg FOV, t h e maximum success ratio of Algorithm 2 is about 2.4 times that using one star tracker. This demonstrates the high ability of Algorithm 2 Note that this is not the act ual success ratio because there are noises and alignment errors in real cases. The actual success ratio is investigated in the next chapter         Figure 5 \226 The maximum success ratio \(the average of 5000 cases  Group Catalogs The technique of Group Catalogs, introduced in the previous chapter, can be extended to Algorithm 2. Without the usual Group Catalog defined in Table 1, another catalog like Table 2 is needed. This catalog includes star pairs within \(90 261 the diagonal size of FOV 003  in angular separation divided into a number of groups, where 003 is the maximum possible misalignment. Using these two group catalogs and the original catalog with magnitude information, the star identifi cations across the images can also be done with the same great performance as those in the same image  However, as the case of the one star tracker, the catalog size is also a problem. The catalog of Table 2 has an especially large size compared to other catalogs. Figure 6 shows the catalog of every catalog in several kinds of FOV Though the catalog of Table 2 has a very large size, that can also be utilized in the cases with even more than two star trackers as long as all of them are away from one another by   whi c h can surel y i m prove t h e success rat i o These cases are very interesting and worthy of further investigation, but in this paper we assumed the case with two star trackers for simplification        Figure 6 \226 FOV size vs. catalog size \(Basic Catalog is that including the magnitude of every star  Misalignments The primary new error of the system using Algorithm 2 is the misalignment in three directions between the two star trackers. These three directi ons of the misalignment error can be expressed in two directions, the latitude one and the longitude one, since the third direction can be expressed by the others\222 combination. That error can be estimated and cancelled to non-dominant by the method in the following Note that the error can change cyclically with the orbit cyclic, because it depends on the thermal effects as well as the mechanical effects 1  In initial operation phase, use large permissible errors for angular separations for identifications across the image 2  After every successful completion of the attitude determination in initial operation phase, use the estimated attitude to identify the remaining stars that were not used in the star identification 3  Combine the images from th e two star trackers and estimate the misalignment by comparing the angular separations calculated from the real image and those calculated from the identification result in \2232\224 and the Catalogs 4  Iterate \2231-3\224 and estimate the misalignment as a form of 004 004 002 by least squares technique 004 means the bias part of the misalignment, which is mainly due to mechanical error, and 004 002 is the variable, usually cyclic part, which is mainly due to thermal error 


  5 5  In the normal operation phase, use 004 as the bias part of the model and decrease the permissible errors for angular separations for identifications across the image down to 004 002  In this way, the misalignment error can be cancelled to a small value, or the variable part. The effect of this method will be investigated in the next chapter Sequence of the algorithm In the previous section, a mitigation method of the misalignments is shown. But even if we use the above method, we still have the variable part of the misalignments As a solution to this problem, we have to develop a new sequence which is robust to the misalignments when they are small, as small as the variable part of those First, I want to introduce the conventional sequence which is usually used for large satellites, defined as Sequence 1, in which enough stars for identification are taken 1  Indentify the stars in the image from one star tracker usually the main one, in decreasing order of brightness like the black line in Fig. 4 2  Identify the stars in the image from the other star tracker in decreasing order of brightness like the red lines in Fig. 4 3  If the identification succeeds, use the right ascensions and declinations of these stars in catalog to calculate the attitude However, this method does not work well when misalignments are very large. If misalignments are too large to make the identification acr oss the images possible, the stars in the image of the non-ma in star tracker will not be used for identification in this method. At that time, if the number of stars in the main star tracker is less than three the identification would end in failure without using the stars in the non-main image To make star identification possi ble even in such situations we have developed a new seque nce, defined as Sequence 2 which is as follows 1  Indentify the stars in the image from one star tracker usually the main one, in decreasing order of brightness like the black line in Fig. 4 2  Indentify the stars in the image from the other star tracker in decreasing order of brightness like the black line in Fig. 4 3  Using the candidates of \2231\224 and \2232,\224 identify the stars in the image from th e other star tracker in decreasing order of brightness like the red lines in Fig. 4 4  If the identification succeeds, use the right ascensions and declinations of these stars in catalog to calculate the attitude In this way, the stars in both images are assured to be used for identification even if the misalignments are very large This new sequence is expected to have robustness to the misalignments when they are small. The numerical simulation is shown in the next chapter 4  S IMULATION FOR S UCCESS R ATIO  The success ratio is an important indicator of the efficiency of star identification algorithm. In this chapter, we try to find the effects of using two star trackers on the success ratio. We assume the case of two star trackers which are away from one is on x-axis and the other is on y-axis. \(Define them as star tracker X, and star tracker Y\entioned above, the effects of the misalignments are assumed to have two directions: one corresponds to the change of the longitude in star tracker Y from 005 to 005 005 002 and the other corresponds to the change of the latitude in star tracker Y from 006 to 006 006 002 These two directions correspond to rotations of star tracker Y around z-axis and x-axis. \(The effects of rotation of star tracker Y around y-axis can be expressed by those around zaxis and x-axis Simulation Different from Algorithms using one star trackers or Algorithm 1, the effect of mi salignment becomes a factor that affects the success ratio in Algorithm 2. In this section we assume a case of Algorithm 2 with a misalignment of 004 004 002 for each direction, a nd find the relationship between 004 and the success ratio by simulation Another parameter on which the success ratio depends is the permissible errors. Here, we have simulated two cases. One uses the normal model and large permissible errors which cover the whole 004 004 002 which corresponds to initial operation phase in the previous chapter. \(Define that as Simulation 1.\her uses the model with the bias of 004  for every misalignment and small permissible errors which cover only 004 002 which corresponds to normal operation phase. \(Define that as Simulati on 2.\ent that the permissible errors cover is defined as er cov 004 here Furthermore, we try to find how the success ratio changes according to the algorithm and FOV size. We compare the algorithm with only one star tracker, Algorithm 1 Algorithm 2 with Sequence 1 \(Algorithm 2_1 


  6 Algorithm 2 with Sequence 2 \(Algorithm 2_2\ng Simulation 2 method The basic settings for the simulation are shown in Table 3  Effects of Misalignments Figure 7 shows the ratio of the status in Simulation 1, and Figure 8 is that in Simulation 2. There are four kinds of status. The first one is finishing identification successfully and the attitude is determined, or \223Suc,\224 the second is finishing identification with ambiguity in the result, or 223Amb,\224 the third is finishing identification with no match remained or not capturing enough stars for identification, or 223Fai,\224 and the final one is finishing identification with wrong result, \223Wro.\224 Figure 7 and Figure 8 show that Simulation 2 gives better results than Simulation 1 and also has scalability. This is because Simulation 2 has the information of bias, which decreases the \223Amb\224 cases, a nd increases the \223Suc\224 cases Note that \223Fai\224 cases and \223Wro\224 cases are not affected by 004  In fact, if the misalignments are small enough, the success ratio can be a function of only permissible errors, or er cov 004 theta\o in Simulation 1            Figure 8 \226 004 theta\o in Simulation 2       Figure 9 \226 er cov 004  Figure 9 shows that function. As er cov 004  increases, the success ratio goes down toward a constant, or the success ratio when using only one star tracker, because more and more cases using two star trackers will become \223Amb.\224            Figure 7 \226 004 theta_over\vs. Success Ratio when misalignments are small enough According to the above simulation, it can be concluded that though the effects of misalignment on the success ratio are large, if the bias part can be estimated in the initial operation phase using the algorithm in the previous chapter these effects can be reduced in to only those by the variable part Comparison between algorithms Figure 10 shows the results of the success ratio at every FOV with the maximum succe ss ratio for every case for comparison. In Figure 10, we can also see that the gaps 


  7 between the success ratio of Algorithm 1 and Algorithm 2 are becoming smaller as the FOV becomes large. This shows the Algorithm 2, proposed here, especially works well when the FOV size is small Furthermore, we can see that Sequence 2 works far better than Sequence 1 about the Algorithm 2. We can see that Sequence 2 performs almost as well as the maximum one which means that the case with the misalignments using this new sequence performs almost as same as the case without the misalignments. This fact shows the robustness of the new sequence to the misalignments. Note that this simulation assumes that the effect of the misalignments has been mitigated down to that of the variable part of them In conclusion, Algorithm 2 works well especially when the size of FOV is small, and if Sequence 2 is used, the effect of the variable part of the misalignments affects little on the success ratio             Figure 10 \226 FOV size vs. success ratio 004 0.5[deg 5  S IMULATION FOR A CCURACY  The accuracy of attitude estimation is another important indicator of efficiency for star identification algorithms Even when the stars are id entified successfully in one algorithm, if the accuracy is very poor, that algorithm still cannot be said to work well In this chapter, we use try to estimate the accuracy of using Algorithm 2. First, we introduce the method of attitude estimation, and then try to investigate how the number of stars in each image and the misalignments affect the accuracy of attitude determination Accuracy Estimation This section shows method to estimate the accuracy of the above star identification algorithm. As the assumption in the former chapter, star tracker X is attached on x-axis, the longitude direction of that star tracker is y-axis, and the latitude direction is z-axis. The relationship of zyx n of the noises of longitude i n of zyx 007 007 007   and noises on the noises of longitude i 005 006 007 007 007 005 006 006\007\007 006\007\007 006 005 01 10  6 where i 005 and i 006 are the estimated longitude and latitude of i th star. In this linear ized expression, when 005 006 007 007 007  can be calculated by the method of least squares. \(Note that there are many kinds of noises which affect the accuracy such as li ght of sight stability, but we only consider effects of NEA \(Noise equivalent angle\error here Simulation This section shows the simulation using the method above Since the accuracy varies to th e positions of the stars, we simulated numerous cases, and take the average of them as the result. The simulation settings are as Table 4  We have considered every possible case of which star tracker the stars are captured by, when the total number of star is three or four. Table 5 shows the simulation results of each case  002 and latitude i 002  i th star can be expressed linearly as  b 212\212  212\212  t 002 002 z y x i i ixy ixz i i 002 and latitude i 002  i th star is known, the 


  8  Effects of Distribution of the Stars The first three rows of Table 8 show n of the accuracy on every axis. In the case when a ll the stars are in the same image, the accuracy around the ma in axis is far worse than that around the other two axes. If we use two images together, however, we can see remarkable improvement in the accuracy around the main ax is. Especially in the case when the same number of st ars is in each image, the accuracy around both main axes shows good results. This is because if we use only one star tracker, the observability around the main axis is very low. Especially when the star is in the center of the image, that observability would be zero But if we use two star track ers, the observability around the main axis of one star tracker can be compensated by the stars in the other image. This shows a good advantage of using two star trackers Effects of Misalignments The remaining six rows in Table 8 show the effects of misalignments of two directions, which correspond to rotations of star tracker Y around z-axis and x-axis, as mentioned before. These effects will be added to the accuracies without misalignments if one or more stars are on the other image. In the initial operation phase, the effects of misalignments are very large, but after the estimation of the bias part of the misalignments, these effects can be reduced to only those by the variable part. \(Note that because the effects of misa lignments are linear to the misalignments themselves if they are small, we did not compare the cases of different misalignments here From the results about the effects of misalignments, several features can be found. First in both cases of misalignments around x-axis and z-axis, there is little coupling effect with other axes, which means there are little misalignment effect on other axes. Furthermore, in the cases of misalignments around x-axis, the effect is equal to the misalignment. That is because star tracker X does not contribute to the accuracy around x-axis, and if one or more stars go to another image with misalignments, the performance will suffer the full effect of that misalignments. On the other hand, in the cases of misalignments around z-axis, the effect is equal to the misalignments multiplied by the ratio of the number of stars in star tracker Y to the total num ber of stars. That is because both the stars in star tracker X and star tracker Y contribute to the accuracy around z-ax is, and so the effects proportional to the number of stars was brought about to the misalignments by the method of least squares. This is another reason why we should estimate the misalignments as accurate as possible 6  C ONCLUSION  In this paper, a star identification algorithm for small FOV star trackers is investigated This algorithm is characteristic by combining the images from two star trackers to identify together, rather than identifying in each of them. To deal with some problems of that algorithm, several novel ideas are discussed and simulated First, the mitigation method of the largest new error of the algorithm, the effect of misalignments is shown. By simulation, the effects of misalignments on the success ratio and the accuracy are demonstrat ed to be critical. But it is also shown that if the bias part of the misalignments is estimated in the initial operation phase, the performance will be affected only by the variable part of the misalignments, which is usually small However, even if we estimate the misalignments using the above method, the effect of the variable part of the misalignments still exists. Therefore, we have to keep the robustness in the new algorithm. As a solution to this problem, we have developed a new sequence of the algorithm. In this new sequence, the star identification process is done starting from both the star trackers, instead of star identification starting from only one image Simulation results show that the case with the misalignments using this new sequence performs almost the same as the case without the misalignments when they are small, which is far better than conventional sequence. This fact shows the robustness of the new sequence to the 


  9 misalignments when they are small, which shows that this sequence works well when the misalignments are already reduced by the above mitigation method Furthermore, the effects of the distribution of the stars into the images and misalignments are calculated. The algorithm using two star trackers is shown to give a good performance because it can compensate th e bad observability around the main axis in the case of using only one star tracker In conclusion, the algorithm proposed in this paper works very well if we can estimate the misalignments accurately in the initial operation phase. We believe that that algorithm can bring a bright future of small FOV star trackers as well as that of micro-satellites R EFERENCES    H Y Ki m  and J. L. Junki ns, \223Sel f-Organi z i ng Gui d e St ar Selection Algorithm for Star Trackers: Thinning Method,\224 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference, Proceeding, March 916, 2002 2 asu k a, \223Attitu d e Estim atio n o f  Satellites u s in g  STAR-TRACKER/IRU Hybrid Navigation System,\224 Graduation Thesis of the University of Tokyo, 1982   D M o rtari A. Rom o li, and A. Difesa, \223StarNav III: a three fields of view star tracker,\224 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Proceeding, March 9-16, 2002 4] C. C. Liebe, \223Accuracy Performance of Star Trackers\227A Tutorial,\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronics Systems, Vol. 38, No.2, pp. 587-599, 2002 5 le, an d J. L. Cr assidis, \223Fast Star Pattern Recognition Using Spherical Triangles,\224 AIAA/AAS Astrodynamics Specialist Conference and Exhibit, 2002  D. M o rt ari J.L. Junki ns, and M  A Sam aan 223Lost InSpace Pyramid Algorithm for Robust Star Pattern Recognition,\224 AAS Guidance and Control Conference 2001   M  A Sam aan D. M o rt ari and J.L. Junki ns, \223R ecursi v e Mode Star Identification Algorithms, \224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Syst ems, Vol. 41, No.4, p.p 1246-1254, 2005  J. D. R a o, D. Pul l a i a h, S.Padm asree, G. N R a o and T.K Alex  223Star Tracker Alignment Determination for Resourcesat-I,\224 AIAA/AAS Astrodynamics Specialist Conference and Exhibit, 2004 9 D Mortari, and M. Angelucci, \223Star Pattern Recognition and Mirror Assembly Misalignment for DIGISTAR II and III Star Sensors,\224 AAS/AIAA Space Flight Mechanics Meeting, Breckenridge, 1999 10 D Mortari, and L. J. Junkins, \223SP-Search Star Pattern Recognition for Multiple Fields of View Star Trackers,\224 AAS/AIAA Astrodynamics Specialist Conference, 1999   Nano-JASM INE W e b si t e  http://www.space.t.utokyo.ac.jp/nanojasmine/Index_e.htm     


  10 B IOGRAPHY  Koki Ho is a master student in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics of the University of Tokyo He is a project member of NanoJASMINE \(Nano - Japan Astrometry Satellite Mission for Infrared Exploration,\ a small astrometry satellite project. He is in charge of the thermal structure system and AOCS \(Attitude and Orbit Control System\ system His current interest includes attitude control and attitude estimation   Shinichi Nakasuka is a professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics of the University of Tokyo He received his Ph. D. in Aeronautics and Astronautics in the University of Tokyo in 1988. His main research is on astrodynamics and artificial intelligence. He has led the students in his lab, ISSL \(Intelligent Spa ce Systems Lab\ in developing CubeSats and small satellite, and has been one of the pioneers of small sa tellite development  


  11  Raffi P. Tikidjian received his B.S degree in Computer Science from the University of Cal Poly Pomona in 2003 and went on to receive his M.S. degree in Computer Science speci alized in the area of Software Engineering from the University of Southern California \(USC in 2006.  He is presently a member of technical staff for the Reasoning, Modeling, and Simulation Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and a PhD candidate in the Center for Systems and Software Engineering \(CSSE at the University of Southern California \(USC guidance of Dr. Barry Boehm His interests are in the areas of systems health management, simulation and modeling model based engineering technologies, software methodologies and processes, mobile and web application user interface design Doug Abraham is a Senior Engineer within the Architecture and Strategic Planning Office of JPL\222s Interplanetary Network Directorate.  As the Strategic Forecasting Lead, he oversees efforts to forecast future mission customer requirements and trends, assesses their implications for Deep Space Network evolution, and assists in the development of the roadmaps and plans needed to guide this evolution.  Doug also supports NASA HQ-led study activ ities pertaining to future lunar and Mars communications architectures Prior to his current assignment, Doug worked on the Galileo, Ulysses, and Cassini flight projects.  He has also worked on several pre-project formulation activities including Pluto Fast Flyb y and the \223Fire and Ice\224 collaboration with Russia Doug began his career as a graduate student intern in the International Space Station Program Office \(1988 graduated Magna Cum Laude from Texas A&M University in Physics \(1986\.S. in Technology and Science Policy, with specialization in technology assessment and electrical engi neering, from Georgia Tech 1990 Janet Wu received her Bachelor of Science \(2000\.S. \(2002 degrees in Planetary Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, MA She has been a technical staff member in the Optical Communications group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA since 2002 


target incoming target incoming target incoming source outgoing Figure 6. EIS System Network View Meta-model operations are those used for service description and must be ultimately decomposed into elementary ones \(i.e. data processing, storing and transferring are estimated through parameter values that are propagated by service invocation parameters to parameters describing application operations constituting the service description which are further propagated to parameters describing elementary operations 4.3. EIS Architecture Design Task Implementation EIS Architecture Design tasks may be supported by existing tools [20]. Systems Modeling Language \(SysML 15] is considered as the most appropriate for EIS System Network model representation and requirement engineering, since it supports the concepts of requirements and resource allocation. As a direct consequence, SysML allows the representation of requirements as model elements which means that requirements are part of the system architecture. For representation purposes, a SysML pro?le for EIS System Network meta-model \(?gure 6 mented as a plugin to MagicDraw modeling tool [2]. In order to facilitate model exchangeability, EIS System Network model is being realized in XML, which is a standard exchangeable format. In order to exchange data with speci?c software tools, model transformations will be accomplished through appropriate XSLTs developed for each tool for example as the one transforming XMI to the EIS System Network document type description \(DTD 5. Case Study In the following we discuss the case of renovating a legacy information system supporting a large-scale public organization based on the proposed concepts. The organization supports more than 350 interconnected regional of?ces and its main purpose is to provide services to the public both citizens and businesses. Regional of?ces are divided into three categories according to their size and information infrastructure requirements \(large, medium and small More than 15.000 employees work in the organization having on-line access to the legacy system. There are more than 300 different services provided to the public, while each citizen is required to register in the one belonging to his/her residential area, called residential of?ce. Some of them require the actual presence of citizens in their residential of?ce Existing system architecture is based on a fat clientserver architecture. All application logic is programmed within the client platform, while data is distributed in local database servers located in each regional of?ce. A Central database is supported in the Datacenter for data synchronization and lookup purposes. The Datacenter and all regional of?ces participate in a private TCP/IP network to facilitate ef?cient data replication. Most data related to a speci?c citizen are maintained as local data in his/her residential of?ce. Client programs access the local database to store data, while they access the central database mostly for lookup purposes. Local data are asynchronously replicated in the central database using a transaction management system \(TMS Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 to facilitate communication with the central database. The central database provides the overall view of each citizen  s record 


record To enhance the level of services provided by the organization, we decided to establish an enhanced e-services environment through an e-government portal. The main target of the portal is to minimize the need for citizen  s presence in regional of?ces and intents to deal with all the drawbacks of the current e-service platform. It provides easy access to citizens and businesses twenty four hours per day, seven days per week. It also promotes the increase of e-services to users, facilitating the organization to accomplish its strategic goals. The portal facilitates on-line transactional services and ensures on-line access to the databases of the legacy information system Provision of transactional e-services re?ects the operation of the legacy system and thus results in its renovation. In order to effectively support both systems \(e.g the portal and the legacy system able to apply the same policies and minimize maintenance cost. Thus, it was decided to explore the renovation of the legacy information system by adopting modern technological trends, such as multi-tiered application architecture server-based computing and light clients. It was decided also to rewrite application code based on J2EE architecture to develop a web interface for the legacy information system in order to support a uni?ed environment for both the legacy system and the portal. This decision affected the legacy system architecture, described in System Network View. Some of issues raised included: \(a database architecture? It is currently distributed. Should it become centralized? What are the implications in the network infrastructure? \(b complished to minimize maintenance cost Though EA was never fully described, the organization had already decided to establish an EA based on Zachman framework a few years ago. RUPmethodology was used for software development, thus application description models were developed within Rational Rose platform. In order to be able to apply the proposed tasks identi?ed in section 4, relative information had to be extracted from the corresponding cells. Application description \(e.g. applications and modules tracted from corresponding Rational Rose ?les. Though the process was not automated, the provision of System Network meta-model, helped architecture designer to identify the information needed to obtain from software designers Detailed service description in terms of load requirements could not be extracted from software description. This was crucial in order to decide upon Intranet and Datacenter architecture. This information was collected by interviewing software developers The new system has to deal with a number of require&lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office oracle L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt tuxido L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department tuxido Central 


tuxido Central lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt R.O. server room lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt oracle net lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt tuxido lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt application lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt Figure 7. Topology View - Existing System ments, with security and availability being the most important ones. Security issues have to do with the security of the network, security of data, authentication control, etc. Availability requirements deal with the backup subsystem, the recovery system and high availability UPS. Privacy must be enforced with the use of cryptography and compression techniques. All these requirements were identi?ed during the System Architecture design process and consequently exported in System Motivation cell where all system requirements are gathered using a simpli?ed text-based requirement description method System Architecture design tasks were performed by existing tools already described in [20]. The existence of System Network meta-model and its implementation in XML facilitated tool integration and interoperability. The identi?cation of primary EIS engineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows and columns facilitated a better understanding between software developers, architecture designers and organization management and enhanced discrete methodology integration. Existing and renovated application architecture of the legacy system de?ned by Topology View are presented in ?gures 7 and 8 respectively. The screenshots are from the MagicDraw [2] tool, enhanced with EIS pro?le to provide the appropriate functionality 6. Conclusions &amp; Future Work MB-EISE process based on Zachman framework was explored in the paper. The designer may adjust basic MB-EISE activity model for each cell, formulate a methodology-independent EIS cell-related view, and ?nally identify methods and tools appropriate for implementing each speci?c task. One could argue that in such a case, 36 distinct EIS sub-views should be de?ned, each of them being rather complex, while basic MB-EISE activity should be adjusted 36 times, resulting in a very complicated process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Application Server lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt 


lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt web browser lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Web Server lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer &lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt Figure 8. Topology View - Renovated System However, EIS engineering process, as enterprise architecture, is itself complex. The bene?t of the proposed approach is that all aspects \(simple or complex form and modular fashion. Cell-related sub-views and corresponding meta-models, as well as cell-related MB-EISE activity model may be progressively formed according to the designer  s priorities and perspectives Having a black-box view of each Zachman cell, the proposed approach focuses on EIS view integration and interview consistency. The notion of external entities when de?ning EIS cell-related views provides the means for interoperability with external cells, while at the same time facilitates atomicity within the limits of each cell. We are currently emphasizing Business and System rows, and especially Function and Network cells, exploring in parallel Motivation column and the way non-functional requirements are managed Having a white-box view of each Zachman cell, it is evident that the de?nition of a technology neutral metamodel and the identi?cation of basic engineering tasks, corresponding to EIS cell-related views, contributes to the integration of different methodologies and tools. A library of EIS System Network models has been already implemented in XML. Emphasis is given to requirements management and especially requirements derivation References 1] Institute For Enterprise Architecture Developments http://www.enterprise-architecture.info 2] MagicDraw UML. http://www.magicdraw.com 3] A. Aurum and C. Wohlin. Engineering and Managing Software Requirements. Springer, 2005 4] F. S. d. Boer, M. M. Bonsangue, J. Jacob, A. Stam, and L. W N. v. d. Torre. A Logical Viewpoint on Architectures. In EDOC, pages 73  83. IEEE Computer Society, 2004 5] E. R. Byrne. IEEE Standard 830: Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Speci?cations, 1998 6] B. Dave and D. Jim. The new, improved RUP SE Architecture Framework, 2005. IBM Rational Edge 7] D. J. de Villiers. Using the Zachman Framework to assess RUP. Rational Edge, 2001 8] J. A. Estefan. Survey of Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE May 2007 9] A. Fatolahi and F. Shams. An investigation into applying UML to the Zachman Framework. Information Systems Frontiers, 8\(2  143, 2006 10] M. Glinz. On non-functional Requirements. 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2007 11] F. Goethals, W. Lemahieu, M. Snoeck, and J. Vandenbulcke. An overview of enterprise architecture framework deliverables. In Banda RKJ \(ed Introduction. ICFAI University Press., 2006 12] H.-P. Hoffmann. Harmony-SE/SysML Deskbook: ModelBased Systems Engineering with Rhapsody, Rev. 1.51 Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 


Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 13] IEEE. IEEE Recommended Practice for Architectural Description for Software-Intensive Systems - Std 1471. Technical report, oct 2000 14] O. M. G. Inc. UML 2.0 Superstructure Speci?cation, October 2004 15] O. M. G. Inc. Systems Modeling Language \(SYSML i?cation. Version 1.0, September 2007 16] INCOSE. INCOSE Handbook SE Process Model, September 2003. http://g2sebok.incose.org 17] Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers. IEEE Std 15288 -2004, Systems Engineering -System Life Cycle Processes, June 2005 18] A. v. Lamsweerde. Goal-Oriented Requirements Engineering: A Guided Tour. In Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering \(RE  01 19] S. Leist and G. Zellner. Evaluation of current architecture frameworks. In H. Haddad, editor, SAC, pages 1546  1553 ACM, 2006 20] M. Nikolaidou and N. Alexopoulou. Enterprise Information System Engineering: A Model-Based Approach Based on the Zachman Framework. In HICSS  08. IEEE Computer Society, 2008 21] M. Nikolaidou and D. Anagnostopoulos. A systematic approach for con?guring web-based information systems Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 17\(3  290, May 2005 22] C. M. Pereira and P. Sousa. A method to de?ne an Enterprise Architecture using the Zachman Framework. In H. Haddad A. Omicini, R. L. Wainwright, and L. M. Liebrock, editors SAC, pages 1366  1371. ACM, 2004 23] K. Pohl and E. Sikora. Supporting the Co-Design of Requirements and Architectural Artifacts. In 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference \(RE  07 pages 258  261, India Habitat Center, New Delhi, 2007 24] J. Schekkerman. How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 25] J. F. Sowa and J. A. Zachman. Extending and Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture. IBM Systems Journal, 31\(3  616, 1992 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





