System Identification and Analysis of the F requency  Characteristic  of the Airborne Stabilizing Platform Yan Dong, Tao Zhang ,Qing-jun Li,  Wen-ming Li and Xi-hui Chen Changchun Institute of Optics Fine Machinery and Physics Chinese Academy of Sciences Changchun, Jilin Province, China dongyan-personal@163.com Yan Dong Graduate University Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijinge, China Abstract  In order to resolve the identification problem of the airborne Opto-Electonic stabilizing platform servo system, the detailed discussion and research are made. An identification method based on the ADALINE self-adapting neurons is presented as far as the time domain is concerned and the detailed discussion of the structural design, training design and generalization capability of the neural network is made. A method of obtaining the opened-loop frequency characteristics of the system according to the closed-loop frequency characteristic measuring data as far as the frequency domain is concerned, which resolves the difficulty of some servo systems in directly measuring the opened-loop frequency characteristics  The experimental results prove that the methods used in the paper can still effectively identify the model of the system in the big noises, with the high practical engineering values Keyword - neural network; system identification frequency characteristics I  I NTRODUCTION The airborne Opto-Electronic stabilizing platform which is the carrier of the aerocamera, assures the visual axle stability of the aerocamera in the operation. The control precision of the Opto-Electronic stabilizing platform directly influences the imaging quality of the aerocamera Therefore, the design level of the servo system of the photoelectric stabilizing platform is vital to the aeroimaging system. The system identification of the OptoElectronic stabilizing platform are the premises and basis for its design and analysis  In the traditional identification method[1   2   it is o f ten  required that the identified system shall not contain noises or only contain the noises with some known statistic characteristics and the actual system is often complex and there are various uncertain factors. Therefore, such restricting conditions are usually regarded as harsh and even difficult to be realized in the actual engineering design. In recent years, the artificial neural network gradually and widely applied in all the fields a s als o pla y ed t h e m o re and more important roles in the system identification field Because the artificial neural network has the selforganizing, self-learning and self-adapting capability of inference, does not only depend on a formula and is good at refining the essential law of the system from the complex data, it has the low requirements for the frequency domain specifications and statistical characteristics of the noises of the system. However, the BP network and Hopfield network widely developed and applied n t h e s y s t e m  i d en t i f i cat i o n field are the nonlinear networks and the system characteristics that they identify are hidden in the topology and weight value of the network and represented in the form of neural network. In the traditional classical control theory they are very difficult to be applied. Therefore, an identification model based on the transfer function and the ADALINE self-adapting linear neurons in the neural network are used for identification. Because the ADALINE network is the single linear neuron, with the simple topology, the weigh values obtained from the final convergence of the network are all the parameters of the transfer function to be identified so that the transfer function of the system can be directly obtained  In the common servo system, the correcting design of the system can be made when the transfer function of the system is available. After the correction, the whole design shall not meet the design requirements until it is tested. At present, the method widely app lied in the frequency domain is to directly measure the opened-loop frequency characteristic curve of the system[6  b u t it is o f te n d i f f ic ult  to measure the opened-loop frequency characteristic curves of some systems. This is because the opened-loop increment of the system is often low and it is uneasy to directly measure their frequency characteristics. For example, in the speed loop test of the photoel ectric stabilizing platform with the gyro as the sensor, it is characterized as high speed rate and long sine input and output periods in the low-frequency section and the limiting position is often reached when a sine period is not available, so it is difficult to measure. At the same time, after the system design, the opened-loop increment is often higher or even far more than the measuring ranges of the sensor and A/D convertor in order to assure the control precision of the system at this time, so it is more difficult to directly measure. Therefore, a method of first measuring the closed-loop frequency characteristics and then obtaining the opened-loop frequency characteristics n g t o t h e cl os edl oop f r equ e n c y characteristics is presented in the paper, which effectively V7-409 978-1-4244-6349-7/10/$26.00 c  2010 IEEE 


resolves the above problems, with the high practical engineering value II S YSTEM I DENTIFICATION B ASED ON THE ADALINE N EURAL N ETWORK A Brief Introduction of the ADALINE Neural Network and its Learning Algorithm ADALINE was presented by Professor Widrow of the US Stanford University in 1962. It is a self-adapting adjustable network. Its topology is shown in Figure 1 Fig. 1: Topology of ADALINE In the figure, n-dimension vector X is the input of ADALINE, n-dimension vector W is the weigh value to be adjusted, the LMS learning algo rithm is used to adjust the weigh value and the transfer function is the linear function The learning mode of ADALINE is the supervised learning that is, the output y time and the expected output t of the network are compared, the error t  y is sent to the LMS algorithm and the weigh value vector W is continuously adjusted online to make the outp ut y approach the target t as possible as it can. It shall be said that the whole learning process of ADALINE is the process of making reduced and continuously adjusting the weigh value vector W in the rules of the learning algorithm. When is small enough finally, W is converged The weigh value adjusting algorithm based on the LMS learning rules is as follows W t  WX \ X T 1 Whereas is the learning rate, X is the n-dimension input vector, W is the n-dimension weigh value and t is the expected output. Because the transfer function of ADALINE is the unit linear function, the above formula can be changed to W t  y T  X T 2 It is divided by the square of the length ||X|| of the vector X and becomes W X 2  X T 3 Whereas t  y = t  WX                                      \(4 According to the fo rmula\(4\ere is   t  WX  t WX                             \(5 Because t is a constant at any sampling time t is zero and there is  WX                                                               \(6 Substitute\(3\  into th e formula\(6\ere is   WX 7 It can be seen from the formula\(7\se the learning rate is a positive number is always reverse to in the LMS algorithm, that is, the absolute value of is always montonically decreased and finally tends to be zero making the network output y always continuously approach the expected output t in the training process B Structural Design of the ADALINE Network In the design of the velocity loop system of the airborne gyro stabilizing platform, the transfer function of the control object is usually defined as a second-order system   1   1    2 1    s T s T K s G 8 In such a transfer function, the three functions, that is T 1 T 2 and K shall be identified From the formula \(8\ere is    1    1    2 1 T s r T s r s G     9 Whereas, the Z transforming discrimination of r K T 1 T 2 T 1 T 2 s made to obtain  1   1    1 2 1 1       z t r z t r z G  10 Whereas   exp 1 1 T T t s     exp 2 2 T T t s  2 1 2 t t a     1 2 1 t t r b      2 1 1 t t a    Ts is the saming period. Therefore, the difference equation model of the system is available   2   1   1    2 1 1       k y a k y a k b k y  11 From the formula  \(11\n be seen that the input of the system completely depends on the previous input and the previous two inputs of the system in such a model Therefore, the ADALINE structure is available and shown in Figure 2 Fig. 2: Structural Design of ADALINE in the System Identification ADALINE continuously adjusts the weigh value vector according to the difference of the output y of the network and the actual output y\(k\ of the turntable and the LMS learning rules. When is small enough, the weigh value of the self-adapting neuron is conve rged, that is, the coefficient of the difference equation available C .  Training Design of the ADALINE Network The fundamental purpose of the learning training of the neural network is to generalize the intrinsic and most essential law contained from a great number of samples with V7-410 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology Volume 7 


noises, so it has the generalization capability and it is not to learn the individuality of each sample. The generalization capability refers to that the network has the ideal output of not only the data attending the training but also the data not attending the training. It shall be said whether there is the generalization capability is the most essential symbol for a network to be successfully trained. A network without generalization capability is a rigid network. It has no essential difference from the algorithm based on determining the formula in a traditional sense. Even if the network output y is able to appr oach the expected output t at any precision, it is nonsense because it has no most essential law and only the simple simulation and even vividly simulates the noises contained in t. In order to make the network have the good generalization capability and become a network that is really able to carry out autonomous learning with the vital force and the training design of the network is vital. First, the training times and the training expected error indexes shall be appropriately set. If the indexes are too low, the network will not be fully converged and if they are too high, the over fitting problem may occur, that is, many inessential things in the training are learnt, that is, the so-called overt rained. In the training the design of the input vector and expected output vector of the network are also vital. In the paper, the step response of the system is chosen as the expected output of the network the standard step signal and the step response of the system at the previous two times are chosen as the input vectors of the network. Because of the disturbance of the random noises and the nonlinear and uneven friction moment, the step response available each time is not the same. In order to make the network eliminate the disturbance of the noises and friction moment as possible as it can and obtain the essential law of the system, the n-step response shall be regarded as the expected output as much as possible However, in the experiment of the XX1 turntable, it is found that the network has had the good generalization capability when n is more than or equal to 3; therefore, the network input  1   k x consisting of 3 standard step signals and the expected output   k y consisting of three step responses shown in Figure 3 are finally determined and the other 2dimension input vectors are the previous two outputs  1   k y and  2   k y of   k y  Samples Fig. 3: Input and Expected Output of ADALINE D.Results and Conclusion of the Experiment The set input data and expected data are input to the network to obtain the following network training error curve 0        10       20        30       40       50        60 Training epoch Fig. 4: Training Curve of ADALINE 3 same convergence weigh values are available in the final convergence of the network From\(10\ere is  3553  0 1  002  0  9955  0 1  002  0   1 1       z z z G 12 Because the sampling period is 0.00125s, there is the following when the Laplace transformation of the formula 12\s made  1 0012  0   1 2778  0  4326  0      s s s G 13 Finally, the formula \(13\  is th e transfer function identified In the mat lab, the simulation step response of the formula 13\ is made and compared with the step response \(shown in Figure 5 and Figure 6\ of the true photoelectric stabilizing platform. It is found that the step response of the transfer function of the system identified is not only basically consistent with the step response data of the system attending the network training bu t also highly similar to the step response data of the system of the platform not attending the network training, which indicates that the designed network has the good generalization capability  10 1 10 2 10 3 Training accuracy Volume 7 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology V7-411 


 Time\(s Fig. 5:Comparison of the Step Response Data in the Triaining Set with the Simulation Results  Time\(s Fig. 6:   Comparison of the Step Response Data of the System not  Attending the Network Training with the Simulation Results  When the other XX2 turntable disturbed by the big friction moment and the step response data of the system contain the serious noises \(shown in Figure 7\ is identified the situation is a little different. When the ADALINE network is finally converged, the following pulse response function of the system is available  09565  0 1   9651  0 1  00165  0   1 1      z z z G  14 Because the system has a pair of climaxes with contrary signs and cannot be directly transformed to the continuous transfer function by the impact response invariance, it can only be transformed to the Laplace domain by the doublelinear transformation method G\(s\=\( 1.19 10 7 s 2 0.3046\\(0.0352s+1\\(0.00052s+1 15 It can be seen the transfer fu nction identified by the neural network has 1 quadratic term in the numerator more than the expected standard transfer fu nction model when the system is disturbed by the big moment and contains the serious noises, but such a quadratic term system is very small and far less than the two inertia tim e constants of the system, so it can be eliminated in the engineering. Therefore, the approximate transfer function of the system is available   1 00052  0   1 0352  0  3046  0      s s s G  16 It can be seen from Figure 7 that the ADALINE neural network can still accurately identify the transfer function of the system when the system is greatly disturbed with the big noises and the SNR is 7.8db. Therefore, the following conclusion can be made: when the disturbance moment and noises acting on the system are small, ADALINE can directly obtain the transfer function of the system; when the system has the big disturbance moment and noises, its step output signal has been seriously distorted and shown some nonlinear characteristics and th e transfer function identified by ADALINE can still accura tely represent the linear characteristics of the system after the simple approximate treatment. Compared with the traditional identification method based on determining the formula, there is no requirement for the frequency domain characteristics and statistical characteristics of the noises in the signal in the intelligent learning identification method based on the neural network. In the meanwhile, there is no special requirement for the input trigger signal of the system. It can be either the step input mentioned in the paper or sine input or other inputs  Time\(s  Fig 7: Comparison of the Step Response with the Identification Results of the XX2 Turntable III  A NALYSIS OF FREQUENCY CHARACTERISTICS Closed-loop frequency characteristics of the system   1      jw G jw G jw G o o c   17 Therefore, the opened-loop frequency characteristics of the system are available   1      jw G jw G jw G c c o   18 It is assumed that the closed-loop frequency characteristics of the system shall be c c c jB A jH H jw G       sin cos   19 it is available from the formula \(18  1      c c c c o jB A jB A jw G     so  2 1        2 2 2 2 c c c c c c c o B A A jB B A A jw G        20 Amplitude Amplitude Amplitude V7-412 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology Volume 7 


From the formula 20 the actual frequency characteristic A and virtual frequency characteristic B of the opened-loop frequency characteristics are available   2 1     2 2 2 2 c c c c c c B A A B A A A       21  2 1  2 2 c c c c B A A B B     22 Therefore, the opened-loop amplitude frequency characteristic H and phase frequency characteristic  of the system are finally available   2 2 B A H   23    tan 1 A B    24 Therefore, it is very easy to obtain the opened-loop frequency characteristic curve shown in the figure below according to the closed-loop frequency characteristic curve after the correction of the XX2 turntable  10 0.5 10 1 10 1.5 10 2 10 2.5 10 3 Frequency \(ran/s Fig. 8 Opened-loop Frequency Characteristic Curve Obtained from the Closed-loop Frequency Characteristic Data According to the transfer function  1 00052  0   1 0352  0  3046  0      s s s G identified in the previous section and the analysis of the designed correcting link  1 1  0   1 008  0  80   1    s s s G there shall exist three turnover frequencies of the system in the frequency range of 1-1000rad/s s rad T w  4  28  1 1 1    s rad T w  10  1 2   and s rad w  125  1 3    It can be clearly seen from Figure 8 that the frequency characteristic curve has the obvious turnover transformation in the above three frequency points, which is basically consistent with the identification results made in the previous time. One of the important points of using the closed-loop frequency characteristics to obtain the opened-loop frequency characteristic curve lies in insp ection of the correction of the system via the curve. In the figure, the  value the differential time constant in the correcting link of the system can be seen and causes the system to nearly pass the horizontal axle nearly at the critical slop of -20db, with the poor stability. In the meanwhile, it can be seen that the resonance frequency of the system is about 400rad/s, that is to say, the band width of the system can only be about 400rad/s at maximum   C ONCLUSION AND P ROSPECT  In the paper, a time domain system identification method based on the ADALINE self-adapting neurons is presented, the structural design and training design of ADALINE are introduced in details and then the experimental results are given according to the design requirements of the airborne photoelectric stabilizing platform servo system. In the design, training and operation of the ADALINE neurons, it can be seen that such a time domain identification method based on the ADALINE selfadapting neurons cannot depend on the noise model of the system to carry out the effective identification and the network trained well has the good generalization capability Only the second-order system of the airborne photoelectric stabilizing velocity loop is taken for example in the paper In fact, because the ADALINE can have random inputs, the high-order system can be identified if only the module of the system model is determ ined in advance. In the meantime, a method that the closed-loop frequency characteristics of a system based on the correlation measurement method are measured first and then transformed to the opened-loop frequency characteristics is presented, with the high practical engineering value according to the difficulty of some systems in directly obtaining the opened-loop characteristics in the paper. The experimental results prove that the method presented in the paper can still effectively identi fy the model of the system on the premise of big noises and serious disturbance and meet the design requirements of the airborne photoelectric platform servo system R EFERENCES 1 Y  L i X  C h e n   I de ntif ic at io n w ith A R MA m o de l a n d it s  ap pl ic at io n  to modeling of FOG drift Systems Engineering and Electronics Vol.30,No.9,Sep.2008   Ha n  Y Z h ou  Y D a i  X C h e n   A n i m p r ove me n t of t h e sy st e m  online indentification algorithm Huazhong Univ.of Sci Tech.\(Nature Science Edition Vol.33 No.10 Oct.2005  H W a n g  T e s t i n g sy st e m for r u dd e rs p e rforma n c e b a se d on  n e u r a l  networks and linear sys-temidentification  Automation  Instrumentation No.2 2008 4  Z h ao J  Che n L  W a ng  N ew in te l l i g e nt ne ur al  ne tw o r k ada p t i v e  control scheme research for aeroengine Journal of  Aerospace Power Vol.23 No.10 Oct. 2008 5 C S h e n Z  W a ng a n d C  L i u A ppl ica tio n o f BP  ne ur al ne t w o r k  tnulti-position strap-down north seeking system Optics and PrecisionEngineering Vol.17,No.8,Aug.2009 6 J.Z h ang  H  L i u, H  J i a  M,X u an  Mo d e l i d e n t i f i cat io n a n d co r r e cto r  design for servo system of electrokechanical actuator Optics and PrecisionEngineering Vol.16,No.10,Oct.2008 7 R  F a n  L  L u   A M e th od t o Derive Op en L oop Freq u e n c y R e s p on s e  from Close-Loop Frequency Response Aotomation and Instrumentation Vol.8,No.4,.1993 Amplitude db Volume 7 2010 2nd International Conference on Computer Engineering and Technology V7-413 


  6 propagation regions: least dispersive line of sight open intermediate non-line of sight specular and more dispersive non-line of sight.  Employing airport sites located inside the airport fence can enhance signa l strength for areas that are not line of sight  The final evaluation indicates that a communications system for airport applications operating in the 5091 \226 5150 MHz band can meet the communications requirements for the airport surface domain.  This re sult was further clarified by work performed by ITT Inc. for NASA under the Future Communications Study.  In this work, ITT used a channel model adapted from a detailed model developed from the results of the Ohio University channel measurements to create an approximation of the airport propagation channel at 5.1 GHz.  Models of the 802.16e transmitter and receiver were developed and evaluated against the airport channel model  The resul t s of t h e si m u l a t i ons i ndi cat ed good performance for the IEEE 802.16e standard in the airport environment in the 5091-5150 MHz band   As mentioned above, the NextGen CNS Testbed wireless network is currently implemented via IEEE 802.11 technology. The next step to support the development validation and standa rdization of the airport surface wireless communications network requires the transition to 802.16e equipment, operating in the MLS extension bands.  This transition has been planned and requires the acquisition of 802.16e equipment operating at the required frequencies Such equipment is expected to become available in the second quarter of 2009. The initial test program to be executed when this equipment has been installed is described in the following section 5  T EST P ROGRAM  Once the IEEE 802.16e equipment has been installed within the NextGen CNS Testbed, syst em characterization test are planned, followed by appli cation demonstrations.  The application demonstrations are in the early stages of being defined, but will include such applications as surveillance data collection, weather sensor data collection, status and control of navigational aids, and mobile asset tracking System characterization tests consist of three categories development of system parameters, handoff mechanisms to mitigate blockage and enable mobility, and path loss and interference characterization The development of system parameters requires testing of RF link performance, including signal strength and communications coverage \(both line of sight and non-line of sight\measurement of message integrity, communications latency, and message rate and data throughput.  These parameters will be measured as a function of range, network loading, and quality of service \(QoS\uested Another set of measurements will enable the determination of system parameters required to ensure that the airport surface network will not interfere with MSS satellite uplink a precondition of using the MLS extension band Measurements of transmit power vs. coverage, message integrity, latency, rate and throughput will be used to assess the performance of the system in conditions that maintain non-interference with the MSS uplinks In order to develop a methodology for channelization of the MLS extension band, testing of message rate, data throughout and base station cove rage, as a function of the surface wireless communications network architecture and physical configuration, base station coverage capability and frequency re-use plan will be employed Alternative handoff mechanisms will be evaluated for their ability to enable mobility am ong the airport surface network nodes and mitigate temporary bloc kage due to aircraft and ground vehicle movement.  Testing of the ability to maintain connectivity, handoff transition times, and message integrity, latency, rate and throughput will be performed for both the mobility case \(moving between base station cells\he temporary blockage case,  while considering network data lo ad equalization and other factors Mobility testing will be acco mmodated by using a ground mobile laboratory known as the Terrestrial Hybrid Environment for Verification of Aeronautical Networks THEVAN\ed a variety of mobile network testing with both ground and satellite-based systems obile node to enable testing of the mobility parameters described above.  THEVAN will enable measurement of signal blockage events and corres ponding network reconfiguration times, correlating these events with the type of physical blockage encountered through video recording of line-ofsight.  Both simulated blockages and real-world blockages resulting from the relative motion of THEVAN representing a network-connecting vehicle, and actual moving aircraft on the airport surface will be included in the testing Path loss and interference ch aracterization are additional factors leading to optimum system design and band channelization methodologies. The propagation path loss exponent, path loss standard de viation, and shadow margin will be measured as a function of antenna height, antenna pattern and gain for both line of sight and non-line of sight conditions It is expected that additional testing requirements will be identified during the planning, installation, test and demonstration phases of the program 
 


  7 6  C ONCLUSION  The requirement for an advanced airport surface communications network has been established through NASA studies, as well as through air transportation system planning efforts such as NextGen and SESAR. Although communications networks based on buried copper and fiber-optic cable are available in a number of airports, they are found to be expensive to install and maintain and are vulnerable to cuts, resulting in service loss. A wireless communications infrastructure can add robustness and reliability to an airport communications network at a much lower cost and can be configur ed to reach a ll areas within and adjacent to the airport su rface.   Studies including the Eurocontrol-FAA Future Communications Study have identified the IEEE 802.16e standard as the commercial standard preferred for am airport surface wireless communications network Frequency spectrum has been identified in the MLS Extension Band \(5091-5150 MHz\hat is well suited for an airport surface wireless applicati on that meets a majority of the bandwidth requirement.  Characterization of this frequency band at several opera tional airports has been completed, and has led to the development of channel models.  Simulations based on these models indicates that good performance of the IEEE 802.16e standard in an airport environment in the MLS Extension Band can be expected The NextGen CNS Testbed has been developed at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and two smaller nearby airports. The testbe d is based upon multilateration surveillance equipment installed by Sensis and an airport surface wireless communications network.  The current network is based upon 802.11e equipment, however the installation of 802.16e equipment operating within the MLS Extension Band is imminent.  The 802.16E equipment will make possible a range of system test which will enable the development and validation of an 802.16e \223aviation profile\224 that will become a blueprint for a national and international standard for airport su rface wireless communicators networks.  The testbed thus equipped will then be able to test and demonstrate a wide range of current and future applications that will support th e advances in airport surface management and improvements in airport surface safety required to enable the future growth in air traffic envisioned by NextGen and SESAR R EFERENCES   Robert J. Kerczewski James M. Budinger, and Tricia J. Gilbert, \223Technology Assessment Results of the Eurocontrol/FAA  Future Communications Study\224,  2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, March, 2008 B IOGRAPHIES   Rafael D. Apaza, \223W ireless Com m unications for Airport Surface: An Evalua tion of Requirements\224, 2005 IEEE Aerospace Conference, March, 2005  Gheorghisor 223Spectral Requirements of ANLE Networks for the Air port Surface,\224 Mitre Report MP080109R1, July, 2008  Izabel a Gheorghi sor, Yan-Shek Hoh, and Frank B ox 223Compatibility Analysis of Airport Wireless Local Area Networks and Satellite Feeder Links in the 5091-5150 MHz Band,\224 2006 ICNS Conference, May, 2006   Dana Hal l and Jam e s M B udi nger 223Next G en ATS Communications, Navigation, and Surveillance Test Bed\224 26 th Digital Avionics System Conference, October, 2007   Davi d W M a t o l a k, Lawrence R Foore and R a fael  D. Apaza, \223Channel Characterization in the 5 GHz Microwave Landing System Extension Band for Future Airport Surface Communications\224,5 th ICNA Conference and Workshop, May, 2005  ireless Channel Char acterization in the 5 GHz Microwave Landing System Extension Band for Airport Surface Areas\224, Final Project Report for NASA ACAST Project, Ohio University, May 2006 8 Glen  Dyer Tricia J. Gilb ert, an d Jam e s M Budinger, \223FCS Phase II Results Paper 3 - Detailed Technology Investigations\224, ICAO Aeronautical Communications Panel Working Group C Meeting  #11 Working Paper 9, September, 2006  Davi d B rooks, R y an W i l k i n s, and Dougl as Hoder 223Mobile IP Communications for Aeronautical Applications\224, 23 rd Digital Avionics System Conference October, 2004 
 


  8 B IOGRAPHIES   Robert J. Kerczewski has been involved with research and development of satellite communications systems and applications since for the Analex Corporation \(19821986\\(1986present\.  He holds a BEE degree from Cleveland State University \(1982\an MSEE degree from Case Western Reserve University \(1987\s currently the Project Manager for the NASA\222s Advanced CNS Architectures and System Technologies \(ACAST  James. M. Budinger is a senior engineer in the Communications Systems Integration Branch at NASA Glenn Research Center GRC\ Cleveland Ohio Over nearly 30 years of service at NASA, Mr Budinger has lead research and advanced technology development for both space and aeronautical communications as a researcher, supervisor, and technology project manager.  He holds MSEE and BEE degrees from Cleveland State University Mr. Budinger received a NASA Exceptional Service Medal in 2003 for outstanding project and technical achievements in the development of advanced communications t echnology. Most recently, he led NASA\222s technology assessment for the Eurocontrol/FAA-NASA Future Communications Study to determine an internationally harmonized solution for the next generation of aeronautical voice and data communications.  Currently, he leads GRC\222s research in airport surface wireless communications via a cooperative agreement with Sensis Corporation for the NextGen CNS Test Bed at GRC and three nearby regional airports  David E. Brooks has over 14 years of advanced IP networking and advanced RF communication system integration experience on various projects at Glenn Research Center at Lewis Field as a Support Service Contractor\(SSC for Sterling Software, Inc 1994-1999\nite Global Infrastructures, LLC 1999-2006 MorganFranklin Corporation \(2006Present have included Advanced Communication Technology Satellite\(ACTS high data terminal experiments, Ku-band networking link experiments using mobile and air assets under Advanced Air Transportation Technologies\(AATT\supporting wireless/wired airport surface Ne xGen research activities He holds a BEE degree from Cl eveland State University 1992\SEE degree from Cleveland State University 1997  Robert P. Dimond is currently employed by Verizon Business working on several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments 
 


  Confidentiality measures directed toward the system itself may include authentication, authorization and directories. On the information side, single signon and identify management are common techniques Activities of the analyzed U.S. hospitals can be located in the upper quadrants increasing their focus on accountability including monitoring and auditing Early approaches checked on system layer monitoring activities; today application and domain layer objects are increasingly monitored and checked for compliance. While Swiss facilities attempt to improve accomplishments of the confidentiality property on the system layer, some unstructured monitoring attempts have been initialized. The upper right quadrants additionally require increased organizational IS security to be successful Administrative and clinical HIS adoption is further progressed at the two U.S. hospitals than at the Swiss ones. This seems to be influenced by market and organizational factors h ile th eir tech n i cal IS security capability is only slightly more advanced organizational IS security capabilities are significantly higher. Test plans and procedures are incorporated into operations at U.S. hospitals. Relative spending and budget for IT and IS security in relation to revenue are comparable between hospitals, except CH 2 which spends significantly less than the other facilities  4.6. Security in Heterogeneous IS  Most HIS today consist of a multitude of heterogeneous and fragmented components, accentuating the impracticability of completely monolithic systems. As a result, applications differ widely not only in business functionality but also in technical design and architecture, the rigor of applied security engineering techniques, and the support of security-related mechanisms and functions. Many vendors and service providers do not facilitate security interoperability due to a lack of standards. For example, authentication credentials are extractable from directory services with most contemporary applications; legacy systems do not provide such support. Generic authorization standards do not optimally model the workflow of multi-level, multi-user environments. Auditing trail data for applications and information is often not available and no interoperability protocol exists Many applications are interlinked using health care specific messaging protocols, disseminating sensitive information unauthenticated to a variety of distributed, possibly unauthorized applications that may be located beyond the security perimeter. Dependence of information flows and system components are fragmentarily identified To retain the combined system manageability of information, application, and system components, it is essential to obtain an aggregated representation for each information entity and its dependence on application and underlying computing and infrastructure components. Frequently, information entities are stored within multiple application components, which rely on their part on a variety of physical computing and storage devices. Due to regulations of health and personal information, it is essential to include application and domain layer elements in the representation and therefore go beyond the inventory lists of system and networking infrastructure, which can be easily obtained by commercial tools In addition to a heterogeneous application system environment, the components are used in different manners and settings. For example, clinical settings require authenticated access-levels dependent on the business function of the user, session lengths dependent on access patterns, and access to multiple applications for short intervals by a variety of personnel Often client terminals are shared by many professionals for practical reasons, but information access and modification needs to be accountable to each individual. The predicament of accessing vital health information lies in its dichotomy of obtaining timely access versus confidentiality and integrity concerns only allowing permitted and authenticated care providers to read and modify potentially life-threatening information. On the one hand, generic and unrefined authentication and authorization procedures may severely limit productivity and efficiency of clinicians On the other hand, lax security controls defeat the described requirements. Security controls and policies need to be specifically crafted and specified for each asset, resulting in the most effective protection of the information entity. The component owner carries the responsibility for the asset and makes decisions according to the organization s security specifications and budget  5. Conclusion  In this paper we discuss security aspects of Health Information Systems. In particular, four case studies on two U.S. and two Swiss hospitals are summarized and the results of the case studies compared with respect to different issues The empirical research showed that IS security in hospitals lacks some controls, in particular organizational measures. Size and IT diffusion as well as specific regulations influence organizational IS security Usage patterns of clinicians and heterogeneous application systems exacerbate security efforts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  U.S. organizations seem to have more controls in place than their Swiss counterparts. Technical security controls have become part of their system lifecycle. However, they still lack more advanced security and authentication controls  References  1 Ide ntity T h e f t Re sourc e Ce nte r  200 7 Da ta  Breach Stats," itrc, San Diego, 2008 http://idtheftmostwanted.org/ITRC%20Breach 20Stats%20Report%202007.pdf 2 P r ic e W a t e r hous e C o ope rs  2 00 8 Inf o rm a tion Se curity Breaches Survey", Technical Report PWC, London, 2008 http://www.pwc.co.uk/pdf BERR_ISBS_2008\(sml 3 M.F. C o llen  A History of Medical Informatics in the United States, 1950 to 1990 American Medical Informatics Association, Indianapolis 1995 4 B. Middle t on W  E. H a m m ond, P  F  Bre nna n   and G.F. Cooper, "Accelerating U.S. EHR Adoption: How to Get There From Here. Recommendations Based on the 2004 ACMI Retreat Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association 12 \(1\2005, pp. 13-19  T  U Dai m  R T  T a r m an  an d N Baso g l u   E x ploring Barriers to Innovation Diffusion in Health Care Service Organizations: An Issue for Effective Integration of Service Architecture and Information Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE Los Alamitos, 2008 6 C.S. G a rrard  H u m an Co m p u t er In teractio n s   Can Computers Improve the Way Doctors Work Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift 130 \(42\, 2000, pp. 1557-1563 7 U  S. D e pa rtm e nt of He a lth H u m a n Se rv ice s   Health Insurance Reform: Security Standards HHS, Washington, 2003 http://www.cms.hhs.gov/SecurityStandard Downloads/securityfinalrule.pdf 8 G  F. K nolm a y e r a nd G  L oos li I T  G o v e rna n c e   in Handbuch Kompetenzmanagement R. Zaugg Ed., Haupt, Bern, 2006, pp. 449-457 9 Yin   Case Study Research: Design and Methods 3rd ed., Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, 2003 10  Bunde s a m t f  r Sic h e r he it in de r Inf o rm a tions technik, "IT-Grundschutz-Kataloge," BSI, Kln 2005 http://www.bsi.bund.de/gshb/deutsch/index.htm 11 L  thi Information System Security in Health Information Systems - Exploratory Research in US and Swiss Acute-Care Hospitals Eul Verlag Lohmar, 2008   12  N a tiona l Ins tit ute of Sta nda rd a nd T e c hnolog y   An Introductory Resource Guide for Implementing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA\curity Rule National Institute of Standard and Technology, Gaithersburg, 2008 13  Eidg e ns s i s c he r D a te ns c hutz b e a u f t rag t e r ED S B Leitfaden zu den technischen und organisatorischen Massnahmen des Datenschutzes http://www.edoeb.admin.ch/dokumentation/0044 5/00472/00935/index.html?lang=de 14  N  M. L o re nz i a nd R  T  Rile y   Managing Technological Change: Organizational Aspects of Health Informatics 2nd ed., Springer, New York 2004 1 A  Bh attach erje e an d N Hi k m et  P h y sician s' R e sistance toward Healthcare Information Technologies: A Dual-Factor Model Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2007 16  R. Sp an jers, W  Hasselbring R. P e t e rso n and M  Smits, "Exploring ICT Enabled Networking in Hospital Organisations Proceedings of the 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2001 1 T h e A d vi so r y Bo ard Co m p an y   Toward Integrated Identity and Access Management The Advisory Board Company, Washington, 2006 18  B  B l obe l A uthoris a t i on a nd A c c e s s C ontrol f o r Electronic Health Record Systems International Journal of Medical Informatics 73 \(3\, 2004, pp 251-257 1 J E  M  l l er an d H  V o segaard  E xp erien ces w ith  Electronic Health Records IT Professional 10 2 2008, pp. 19-23 20  S. K a hn a n d V She s ha dr i M e d ic a l R e c o r d P r ivacy and Security in a Digital Environment IT Professional 10 \(2 2008, pp. 46-52 21 R   A nde r s on Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems Wiley New York, 2001 22 ISO ISO/IEC 17799: Information Technology Security Techniques - Code of Practice for Information Security Management 2nd ed., ISO, Geneva, 2005 23  P. Me rte n s a nd G  K nolm a y e r Organisation der Informationsverarbeitung 3rd ed., Gabler, Wiesbaden, 1998 24  B.B. W a ng T  T  H. W a n  D.E Bu rk e, G  J. Bazzoli, and B.Y.J. Lin, "Factors Influencing Health Information System Adoption in American Hospitals Health Care Management Review 30 \(1 2005, pp. 44-51  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments pre></body></html 


common concern was compliance with the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA information privacy. Organizations were unsure whether DP products would be HIPAA compliant and even if the products themselves were secure whether their onboard information could be kept secure when the pens are small and easily lost  3.4.3. Implications for DP. Although there was substantial interest in DP technology among professional services and white collar organizations the ethnographic findings suggest that delivering appropriate value from DP technology would be difficult. The first barrier would be providing a platform that either conforms to or changes current behaviors around pen and paper: free availability of pens and unpatterned paper in the workplace behaviors of writing on environmental paper, and the need to keep up with a personal pen with one?s data The second barrier would be to meet expectations around text; much of the value was seen as being in retention and searching of textual information, but this would be made difficult by the frequent inclusion of acronyms, abbreviations symbols, and foreign languages. Many organizations saw value in centralized repositories that would manage DP information across many employees; this would require an IT infrastructure that was not available \(e.g., to manage the DP pattern space might be difficult and expensive to develop and maintain. It also poses questions about privacy, since employees might not wish the archive to retain personal information captured alongside work notes Finally, because we noted real or perceived barriers that were highly specific to various industries it appeared that DP solutions would be most likely to succeed if they were tailored to very specific settings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 and use cases. This does not argue against DP usage and its value, but it suggests that delivering value to organizations may require substantially more design and development effort than a single general solution or platform would provide  4. Discussion  Our findings show that the interaction model of DP technology diverges substantially from common pen and paper usage. This divergence leads to unclear utility of DP for consumer note-taking purposes, and in a field trial, resulted in high abandonment rate of a consumer DP product. Among the most significant limitations were the low value seen in review of facsimile notes on a PC, the requirement with DP to use a special pen paired with patterned paper, and the low perceived value of capturing only notes taken on blank paper as opposed to handouts and other materials. In the enterprise space, the environmental issues were even more prominent due to the common infrastructure of freely available, communal pens and paper and the lack of IT infrastructure for DP document retention The note-taking research reported here suggests that writing behavior comprises many important areas besides capture, retention, and review of specific data. For instance, a single blank piece of paper or a one-word reminder may adequately serve as a reminder to do something that one intends, even though there may be little or no content as such Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending 


Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending a lecture, it may be socially desirable to take notes even if they are later simply disposed. Taking notes may also serve purposes of memory consolidation even when the content is never reviewed [8][9  4.1 DP and Writing Acts  Linguistic acts in social context have been described using a model of performative behavior commonly known as ?speech acts? theory [15 Chapman [2] extended that model to encompass writing, suggesting that many aspects of ?writing acts are unique and separate from spoken language.  In the extended model, writing acts may be described with a multidimensional taxonomy encompassing a writer?s context, aspects of the process, type of content, and linguistic features of the content Table 3 summarizes the dimensions of writing acts \(from [2 exemplify each dimension. For instance, ?separability denotes the extent to which items in a document are logically independent of one another; in a contract nothing is separable because the document is a single piece, while on a to-do list, many or all items may be independent of one another [2 DP technology may benefit from attention to the dimensions that are exemplified by writing acts embedded in social contexts. DP systems may be able to perform some kinds of writing acts quite well, but in other cases, DP may be inconvenient, unnecessary or inappropriate. Models such as the writing acts framework can be used both to understand user behavior broadly and systematically to explore the applicability of DP products across the general space of writing behavior A key problem for DP in note taking applications is that note taking can involve nearly every possible dimension of writing acts. Notes may be separable or not; they may serve as functional content or as contextual reminders; they may present just the facts? or be more interpretive; they may be transient or might be intended to be archival documents; and so forth. In short, notes are able to present a vast array of writing styles that pose substantially different value propositions and technological implications for DP products Delivering a general DP solution for note taking may therefore be expected to be difficult  Table 3: Dimensions of Writing Acts [2  Dimension Exemplars Separability a contract vs. a to-do list Function a typed inventory list vs calligraphy Emotionality a love letter vs. a packing slip Spatiality a transcript of speech vs. a diagram depicting concept relationships Associativity notes from class vs. doodling Linearity chronological notes vs. notes placed in a spatial ordering scheme Originality an essay vs. feedback on a manuscript Prescriptivity a signature vs. general notes Finality a document that will be archival vs. one that is a draft Structure a grocery list vs. concepts from a brainstorm Personality a letter to someone vs. a 


Personality a letter to someone vs. a journalistic essay Formality a business letter vs. a greeting card to a close friend  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 For product development purposes, the writing acts framework can be used to ensure coverage of use cases by generating possible scenarios combining various attributes of written documents. These potential combinations may then be explored evaluated, and prioritized for research attention development effort, or testing  4.2 Possible Directions for DP Technology  4.2.1. Note taking. What would make DP technology more popular for note taking? Our research suggests that this is a complex question because there are numerous behavioral barriers. The largest single problem for DP may be that it is a closed system comprising a special pen and patterned paper and does not function with the wide array of writing utensils and paper products that people use especially for environmentally available pens, paper and documents. If this problem could be solved or mitigated through an expanded DP technology platform, DP would avoid the large behavioral block posed by the current need for users to change their existing pen and paper habits DP effectively focuses on notes as data neglecting many aspects of the embedded social nature and process function of notes. If DP notes were easily integrated into a wider range of behavioral processes, adoption should increase. For example, if notes could be automatically handled for content such as phone numbers, appointment times reminders, temporary content, and the like, then the DP platform would come closer to matching current pen and paper usage. However, in many cases, there is a separate and larger issue: computer technology today also is not integrated into such processes. To take a simple example, consider a written grocery list Even if the problem could be solved to recognize extract, and transfer the list to a PC, it would be of little use because, for most people, the PC itself is not integrated into the grocery shopping process. Much information of this kind is transient; there is no need to manage or retain it once the paper has been used An example of potentially closer workflow integration is shown in the recently released Livescribe Pulse Smartpen [11], which couples the Anoto DP platform with audio recording such that note takers can review the audio of a meeting or lecture at the exact point that a note was written. We believe that these kinds of additions to base DP functionality are likely to appeal to specific niches of users, but as more use cases like these are enabled over time, DP may successively attain value for larger numbers of users In our field trials and organizational visits, one of the most common customer expectations was that DP notes should be converted from handwriting to text; respondents commonly noted that PC data is of little use unless it is transcribed to text. To meet customer demands, a DP product will need to address this expectation: the DP must either deliver text recognition with very high accuracy, which is a difficult problem, or it should manage the expectation in some other way that preserves customer perception of value from PC integration 


of value from PC integration The high cost of DP products \(approximately US 100 for a pen, plus the need for specially patterned paper demonstrable additional benefit. Transferring notes from paper to a PC today merely involves typing Unless the need for automation is great and the DP function is nearly perfect, users may simply prefer to type or to carry paper rather than to change behavior to use expensive and less flexible technology  4.2.2. Structured input. As noted in the Introduction above, another use case for DP technology is structured input of information. In particular, DP technology may be useful for form-based input into database and workflow systems, where information is initially recorded on paper forms and then automatically transferred from the pen to a database application. Although the present research report is concerned primarily with note taking applications, in the course of our enterprise research we discussed potential applications for forms-based DP usage We noted possible use cases that fell into five general areas: \(1 easier input of information by customers, such as clients filling out deposit or withdrawal slips at a bank; \(2 information from paper to database without needing to rekey or type the information, such as factory inspection and quality assurance logs, traffic tickets shipping manifests, and so forth; \(3 environments that were not suitable for handheld computing devices, such as construction sites and some kinds of manufacturing facilities; \(4 in which paper-based records are desirable for either employee compliance or customer comfort, such as medical settings; and \(5 based records are necessary, e.g., for legal reasons but a DP product could support faster turnaround and error correction. An example of such application involved financial forms that undergo offsite optical character recognition; a DP system might allow immediate recognition and error correction We plan to report this line of research fully in the future. For now, we note that each of those areas has various benefits and potential limitations with regard to DP technology. Forms-based use cases are more precisely defined and structured than note taking, in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 terms of environment, workflow, and content; the information context, form design, and potential for systems integration with rapid feedback may mitigate issues with handwriting recognition; and enterprise customers may be less price sensitive than consumers Thus, structured input appears to be a more promising near-future application of DP technology than note taking  4.3 Research Discussion  As we noted above, the present research was primarily behavioral and qualitative. Thus, despite the strength and consistency of our results across multiple samples, contexts, and locations, we present no specific metrics or tested hypotheses on user behavior with DP products. Our findings could be used to inform directional hypotheses for future depth or quantitative research. For instance, one might formulate and test hypotheses about cultural differences, interest levels in DP between various groups such as professional and non-professional 


office workers, market research metrics such as price sensitivity, and the like It is important to underscore the value of ethnographic fieldwork in the present research. It would be possible to conduct design research that explores how to make DP technology better, e.g., in terms of usability and function, without investigating exactly what people would do with such products and why. It was only when we investigated behavior in depth that we discovered the divergence of DP products? limited current value for note taking, as opposed to the high value that one might presume in the absence of depth research  5. Conclusion  In our research, initial trials of digital pens in a controlled setting \(Research Series 2 above suggested potentially good fit between digital pen functionality and consumer note taking needs However, when we explored real world behavior in note taking \(Research Series 1, 3, and 4 above found many potential barriers to adoption of digital pens for note taking. In particular, traditional pen and paper offer advantages in terms of cost, widespread and ad hoc availability, flexibility to work with multiple sources seamlessly, behavioral workflow integration, and manageability of content The value of using digital pens will increase if manufacturers are able to expand their platform technology progressively to enable broader coverage of behavioral scenarios and habits, focusing on the broad range of writing behaviors rather than just needs for facsimile replication on a computer Alternatively, digital pen technology may be more easily applied to tasks involving structured input rather than unstructured note taking We suggest that DP development efforts should use existing linguistic frameworks \(e.g., [2 the space of writing acts of interest. This should allow DP products to target behavioral needs in a more focused manner, leading to higher customer adoption  6. Acknowledgements  We thank many people who participated in this research: first and foremost, the numerous research participants, firms, and organizations who so generously shared their time and insights, but who must remain confidential; and many colleagues and research partners at Microsoft who collaborated on the technology investigation and research efforts especially Jeff Staiman, Vince Ball, Brian Williams Yoshiyuki Moriya, Stephen Cooper, Dave Shen Setsuko Arimatsu, Benjamin Babcock, Dennis Meinhardt, John Chiloyan, Glen Larsen, Mehrdad Basseri, Lori Birtley, Ken Hinckley, and Jian Wang  7. References  1] Anoto Group. Digital pen and paper. Web page http://www.anoto.com/?id=158, last retrieved May 28 2008  2] Chapman, C. N. Writing acts: taxonomy and technological implications. Paper presented at North American Computing and Philosophy \(CAP Corvallis, OR, August 2005  3] Despont-Gros, C., B?uf, C., Geissbuhler, A., and Lovis C. \(2005 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





