37 A Strategy for Continuously Big Capacity Data Transmit/Receive Process Handling in Real-time SHAO Xiao-Dong Institute of Remoting Sensing Applications Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing 100101 China shaoxd@yahoo.cn  LI Qiang Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region Bureau of Surveying and Mapping Yinchuan 750021 China lqllxy@163.com Abstract  The real time online analysis system that works under the network condition needs to synchronize and harmonize data transmit/receive process and the data handler especially when facing huge capacity data with at a high transmit/receive/handle speed. Combined with practical experience, the paper puts forward a circular data buffer cache technology and a multi-threading message passing mechanism. The core of the solution is to: \(1\sage of data cache and multi-threading technology to make the data transmit/receive process running at a high speed; \(2\ take the data cache as a connection bridge to link the data transition and reception two processes by message passing mechanisms with an interactive scheduling management, thus the two processes stand-alone that are closely interrelated may be able to run simultaneously in one system completed the required work, not only interrelated,  but also interact with each other In the end of the paper, an example of real-time flying objects monitoring system is presented to illustrate the feasibility and the practicability of the technique, and the result shows that the strategy for continuously big capacity data transmit/receive process handling in real-time can boost the efficiency and speed of data access, enhancing data security and the whole system adaptability Keywords circular data buffer transmit/receive  synchronize and harmonize multi-thread GIS reatime I I NTRODUCTION In automatic on-line fault diagnosis target tracking and some other computer application fields big capacity observation or testing data needs to pass through the network mainly LAN with a high speed in real-time continuously swarming into transmit/receive process terminal realizing real-time online data analytical processing work In this case system design and development will face two key issues need to be addressed 1 synchronization problem of data transmitting and receiving In such a high-speed continuous scenario if we adopt the conventional software handshaking mode as the transmitter and receiver synchronous response mechanism the actual transmission efficiency would be 978-1-4244-58 48-6/10/$26.00  2010 IEEE greatly reduced Practice has proved that in many cases this method can not meet the strict speed requirements for data transmission 2 for the receiving process terminal completing the rapid data reception on one hand it often has to bear the heavy load of data sorting calculation analysis preservation and displaying a series of continuous work Therefore synchronization problem or consistency exists between data reception and following treatment If it is not well resolved data lost can not be avoided Especially when the intermediate process becomes much more complex requiring longer time problem may seem more prominent II P ROBLEM SOLVING TECHNIQUES AND METHODS The two key issues describe d above are inte rrelated and interacted with each other referring transmit/receive two process terminal However taking into the account of independence of the respective terminal sometimes we can not even make too many demands and restrictions to the transmit process the main algorithm optimization and performance improvement to solve the problem should be focused on the receive process terminal As can be seen from the above s tatement the core problem for the receive process terminal is that in a real-time system completing the rapid data reception meeting system speed requirements and solving unsynchronized problems between transmit/receive process terminal at the same time The first step of solution is to improve the data reception speed effectively in this paper we use a direct way of listening the network ports In practice a scheduling control thread is designed specializing in network port monitoring and scheduling control When the data arrives it receives data and quickly save it to the data buffer cache according to the pre-settings orderly and then sends a message to notify the other relevant thread the arrival of new data in order to complete a data reception process For the mandate of the single thread independence of other data handling threads therefore it not only complete the rapid data reception with a relative high speed but also ensure the integrity of the data effectively data loss phenomenon will not happen Secondly data non-synchronized phenomenon between receive/handle process modules should be emphasized In an ideal situation data receiving and handling process module should be carried out one by one sequentially However 


38 when facing big capacity transmission data situation the two process modules will not be synchronized for their speed difference If the receive process shows a high speed the data handling process module will be significantly delayed Therefore some special technical methods needed to be adopted to coordinate the two process module to be synchronized In the system design a message triggered and management mechanism is adopted Process is as follows Data receiving module receives MessageCustom message sent by the transmit thread and if the data handling module is idle it will immediately read out the latest instruction string and start handling if the processing module is under way at this time and there is no time to handle the latest data request then request will waits in message queue waiting to be handled Coupled with data buffer cache mechanism synchronization problem between the two process modules may be well fixed stably and effectively III SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND I MPLEMENTATION To sum up the core of the solution method is to 1 usage of data cache and multi-threading technology to make the data transmit/receive process running at a high speed 2 take the data cache as a connection bridge to link the data transition and reception two processes by message passing mechanisms with an interactive scheduling management thus the two processes stand-alone that are closely interrelated may be able to run simultaneously in one system completed the required work not only interrelated but also interact with each other A Data sending process The system architecture is mainly divided into the radar data sending server and the console data receive/process terminal two parts The data sending server writes a string of commands data to the shared memory and then sends a message to data handling thread waiting for another new instructions coming The console terminal reads out each instruction that is stored in the shared memory in turn after receiving the  MessageCustom  see Figure 1  Fig 1 Data flow chart of the client 1 Creating memory image file Actually the 32-bit Windows system is capable of imaging the physical memory to the page file or the swap file By imaging the physical memory including system page itself the application could be able to expand this capability Image file provides a faster and much more convenient file access method as well as memory sharing In the system development CreateFileMapping method is used to create an image file as a data buffer cache The size of image file depends on the speed difference between the transmit/receive processes performance in the system The optimal size can be fixed after actual test Generally speaking the greater speed the difference between the two processes the larger the image file will be When creating memory image file CreateFileMapping function must be called to at first and then MapViewOfFile function is called to image the image file to the process address space Functional pseudo-code lists as follows hMapFile=CreateFileMapping\(\(HANDLE\\(0xFFFFFFF F NULL,PAGE_READWRITE 0 Recorder_MaxNum  One_Recorder_MaxLength WinSock_MappingFile if\(hMapFile  NULL pMapFile=MapViewOfFile\(hMapFile FILE_MAP_ALL_ACCESS,0,0,0  2 Organizing the image file into a circular data buffer queue In the paper the memory image file is organized into a circular data buffer queue data structure 1  s e e F ig u r e 2   Fig 2 Circular buffer queue for the memory mapping files Bytes segment in circular data buffer queue is set used unused logo points that is 0 indicates the bytes segment is not in use on the contrary 1 may indicate that the bytes segment is already occupied and can not be overwritten At the first the following pseudo-code is executed to mark the new image file with  used  sign while\(n<Recorder_MaxNum address=PChar\(pMapFile n*One_Recorder_MaxLength PChar\(address  0 n  Sometimes in order to avoid frequent single instruction string sending operations we adopt a data pre-processing operation strategy That is combine the single instruction string into a long instruction string numbers of instructions to be combined should be in accordance with the actual situation Functional pseudo-code lists as follows 


39 while\(m<=Read_RecorderMaxNum_OneTime Read_RecorderMaxNum_OneTime Address=PChar\(pMapFile n  One_Recorder_MaxLength cs  PChar\(address if\(cs  1 an available data PChar\(address  0 address1=PChar\(pMapFile  n  One_Recorder_MaxLength  1 s  PString\(address1 m  else break  n if\(n  Recorder_MaxNum when reach the queue rear point current reset n=0   3 Sending customed messages to inform the processing thread Instruction string sending under network circumstance needs to call the Windows Socket application send function module the function prototype lists as follows 2  int SendInstruction\(SOCKET s const char FAR*buf int len int flags While sending instruction string the data sending thread needs to send a custom message out to inform the receive/process scheduling control thread at the same time At the very beginning the custom message variable  MessageCustom  should be defined in the application header file so as to indicate that this message is a userdefined message that will be used const int WM_USER  0x0400 const int MessageCustom WM_USER  123 At the same time the following message map statement will be added to the application's message map table linking the user-defined message  MessageCustom  with its corresponding custom message responsing function module RecvAndDeal\(WPARAM wParam LPARAM lParam MESSAGE void RecvAndDeal\(WPARAM wParam,LPARAM lParam BEGIN_MESSAGE_MAP VCL_MESSAGE_HANDLER\(MessageCustom TMessage RecvAndDeal END_MESSAGE_MAP\(TForm After that the SendNotifyMessage function will be called to send the MessageCustom message out SendNotifyMessage function prototype lists as follows BOOL SendNotifyMessage\(HWND hWnd UINT Msg WPARAM wParam LPARAM lParam Usage of SendNotifyMessage function will broadcast the MessageCustom message to the console terminal  s main window through network waiting for response SendNotifyMessage\(hwnd MessageForWinSock WPARAM\rcularBuf,0 B Data-processing working processe Because of its less memory possession and a relative high working efficiency in the multi-threading implementation multi-threading technology is frequently used to solve the corresponding problem in the practical system development 3  T h r e e b as ic f u n c tio n m o d u l e s c a n b e d iv id e d i n t h e system as the data reception module the data handling module as well as the receive/process scheduling control module intercommunicating with the use of multi-threading message passing mechanism each module is independent but working in parallel meeting the real-time requirements see Figure 3  Fig 3 Thread diagram for system processing The message listening thread will be started in the main thread process at the very beginning After starting it will begin capturing the user-defined message  MessageCustom   Data accessing receiving and interpreting work defined in function RecvAndDeal void RecvAndDeal\(WPARAM wParam LPARAM lParam  It needs to explain that the two parameters  wParam  and  lParam  of the RecvAndDeal function have been defined default by the Windows system attaching additional message illustration Since the fourth parameter  lParam  is set to be zero here the additional message illustration i.e the specific content of the data sending shall be carried out by another parameter  wParam   As a means of system coordination method between the different functional modules the message scheduling trigger mechanism can be applied directly provided by the Windows system simple itself with a less complicated in the control structure however specific data structure and message passing mechanism is required facing extreme condition an example of this should be the timer combination of public memory usage 


40 IV T HE OPERATION APPLICATION In accordance with the above steps the system adopted a client/server model design pattern 4  w ith th e r ad ar d ata sending server and the final console data receive/process terminal two parts TCP/IP network SOCKET is used with a flow of about 30MB/sec about 200 records per second each record nearly 150Bytes On the radar simulation server side the console terminal IP address is set for network communication Radar data automatically send after setting the maximum number of flying targets and the data transmission interval of time in milliseconds Data string format can be customized the general items should include data ID flight target longitude dimensions,height,sendingtime,andsoon.Datastringcan be encrypted before sending after informing the console terminal with specific encrypted format the console program start the data analytic processing Radar simulation program interface as shown in Figure 4 Fig.4 Radar simulation program interface Radar data in the circular buffer queue is read out and removed by the data handling thread following data parse and display GIS Geographic Information System technology provides effective tools for the handling integrating and visualizing diverse spatial data sets 5  Th e use of GIS for the flying targets management provides a visual data solution Parameters such as spatial location speed and attitude parameters etc is graphically displayed in real time making the data shown much more intuitive The system is not subject to weather climate and ultra-horizon objective external conditions impact providing researchers with vivid and intuitive information to help them understand and grasp the field condition hence to conduct real-time monitoring and decision making The final console simulation program interface we developed as shown in Figure 5 Fig.5 Console simulation program interface V C ONCLUSIONS In practical applications development big capacity data acquired from a variety of automatic detections or the monitoring instrumentations will be sent under network condition continuously in real time The console program is responsible for receiving these sending data analyzing and final displaying processes a series of continuous works Strategy described in this paper meets practical application requirements and achieves a satisfactory result Combined with the secondary data preservation technology in case of interruption or even halt of the system processing stable data reception and procession operation can also be guaranteed enhancing data security and the whole system adaptability R EFERENCES 1 W ei mi n Y an W ei m i n W u D a t a S t r u c t ur e C L ang u age V e r s i on   M   Beijing Tsinghua University Press 1997:63  65 in Chinese 2 G A O Sh ul i a ng  M A Y u f a  Y A N G D ongkai  I m p l eme nt at i o n f o r network communication based on multithread and message Computer Engineering and Design[J  2008 29  3 2 4  325 in Chinese 3 L i n Q i ao  Z hi g a ng Y a ng  V i s ual C  A d v a nc ed P r og r a m m i n g Techniques[M  B e i j i ng  C h i n a R a i l w a y P ubl i s hi ng H o us e  2000:361~369 in Chinese 4 T ai m i ng R e n T C P  I P p r o t oco l and n e t w o r k p r og r ammi n g  M   X i A n Xidian University Press 2004:97  102 in Chinese 5 Bri m i c o m b e  A   G IS  e n v i r o n m e n t a l m o d e l l i n g a n d e n g i n e e r i n g  London New York Taylor  Francis 312 p 2003 


               a               b  Figure 5. The actual and forecasted values of 500 Set A Data using adaptive and non-adaptive approaches: \(a recasting \(b\ 5 steps ahead forecasting  R EFERENCES    E Montañés, J. R. Quevedo, M. M  Prieto, and C. O Menéndez  Forecasting Time Series Combining Machine Learning and Box-Jenkins Time Series   Advances in Artificial Intelligence  IBERAMIA  2002, vol. 2527, Jan 2002, pp. 491-499, doi 10.1007/3-540-36131-6_50   K. Lin, Q. Lin C. Zhou, and J. Yao  Time Series Prediction Based on Linear Regression and SVR  Proc. of the Third International Conference on Natural Computation, Nov 2007 pp. 688-691, doi: 10.1109/ICNC.2007.780   M. Boznar, M. Les jak, and P. Mlakar  A Neural NetworkBased Method for Short-Term Pr edictions of Ambient SO2 Concentrations in Highly Polluted Industrial Areas of Complex Terrain  Atmospheric Environment, vol. 27\(2 Jun 1993, pp. 221-230, do i: 10.1016/0957-1272\(93 S  S. M. Ch en, and N. Y. C hung  Forecasting Enrollments using High-Order Fuzzy T ime Series and Genetic Algorithms  International Journal of Intelligent Systems vol. 21\(5\, May 2006, pp. 485-501, doi: 10.1002/int.v21:5  Q.S. Li, D.K. Liu, J.Q. Fa ng, A.P. Jeary and C.K. Wong  Damping in buildings: its neural network model and AR model  Engineering Structures, vol 22, May 2000, pp 1216  1223, doi: 10.1016/S0141-0296\(99  H.H. Ngu y en and C.W. Ch an  Multiple neural networks for a long term time series forecast  Neural Computing Applications  vol 13,  April 2004, pp. 90  98, doi 10.1007/s00521-003-0390-z   K. Kalaitzakis, G.S. St avra kakis and E.M. Anagnostakis  Short-term load forecasting based on artificial neural networks parallel implementation  Electric Power System Research, vol 63, October 2002, pp. 185  196, doi 10.1016/S0378-7796\(02  Y  Mashor, “Modification of the RBF Network Architecture ASEAN Journal of Sciences Technol. Dev vol 17\(1  M.Y. Mashor A daptive Fuzzy C-Means Clustering Algorithm for A Radial Basis Function Network   International Journal System Sc iences, vol 32\(1\, 2001, pp 53-63  J. A. Karl and W. Bjorm Computer Controlled Systems Theory & Design, 3 rd edn. New Jersey : Prentice Hall 1997   C F Gao  T. L Ch en and T S  Nan    Discussion of Some Problems About Nonlinear Time-Series Prediction Using vSupport vector Machine  Communication Theory Physics vol 48, July 2007, pp. 117-124  K. R. Muller, A. J  Sm ola G. Ratsch, B. Scholkopf, and J Kohlmorgen  Using Support Vector Machines for Time series Prediction  in  Advances in kernel methods: support vector learning  MA, USA. MIT Press Cambridge, 1999  
821 


familiarize them with the Center and this particular research being done Invitation letters are a common component of any survey research project.  However, delivering them online via e-mail is a major difference between other methods and creates additional challenges.  An individual who receives an unwanted piece of printed mail can throw it out.  Similarly, unwanted e-mail  spam be deleted after its read, deleted prior to being read, or deleted ever before it reaches a user s inbox.  Thus it was essential that we take steps to ensure that members of our sample actually received our initial invitation e-mail and entice them to read it and choose to participate. We also sent all contact emails from an academic server \(.edu domain\ it would be less likely to be deleted by government spam filters than e-mails coming from a .com or .net address  4.5. Survey administration process  We were very cognizant of the importance of both thoroughly testing the instrument and the administration process prio r to releasing the full survey.  As such, the survey went through three complete stages from start to finish: pre-testing, pilot testing, and full administration.  These three stages took approximately seven months \(October 2007  April 2008\rom start to finish; this does not count the time spent on sampling, instrument design invitation letter design, and building the survey into the online tool  4.5.1. Pre-test The goal of our pre-testing process was to get early feedback about the first implementation of the web-based instrument  The survey was sent to 23 individuals to pre-test including 3 members of the research team, and we received comments back from 9 of them. We discussed the comments and made some revisions to the survey questionnaire  4.5.2. Pilot Pilot tests are primarily used to ensure that survey questions operate well but also that the instrument as a whole is functioning as design we also wanted to examine, using a small group of government employees, if the full administration process planned would be feasible with a large sample.   The survey was piloted using 80 contacts approximately 10% of our sample at the time of pilot administration.  After eliminating individuals whom we were unable to contact \(mainly due to missing or incorrect e-mail addresses, or because they left their position during the course of the pilot administration period\, we had 70 contacts remaining.  Five chose to opt-out between the time of sending out the initial survey link and sending the final reminder 5/70=7.1%\eople completed the survey in full for a response rate of 28.6%.  We also had 3 partial responses, so our rate for any responses was 32.9% or almost one-third.  This became our goal for the full administration.  Unfortunately our n from the pilot testing was too low to do any kind of statistical analysis, but we did use descriptive statistics to examine these results for basic trends. Again, our communication with public health and justice professional associations throughout the survey design and sampling processes was critical. This relationship helped us to refine our message to appeal to the government professionals we were surveying One of the major determinations made from this was that the Likert item questions were generally skewed towards the right \(i.e., the higher end\ On a strongly agree we consistently had means of 5 or 6.  We thought that the wording used for the scale itself might be causing a response bias that would make respondents answer favorably and so we modified it during the post-pilot tweak period to being 1 \(not at all\ 7 \(to a great extent\his decision allowed us to retain the wording on nearly all of the individual question items and still use a single measurement scale for the entire instrument.  Similarly, there seemed to be a selfselection bias, as respondents were mostly choosing initiatives that had succeeded, and this could also skew scale responses.  To remedy this, we revised some of the language in the survey instruction text to encourage participants to think about ALL kinds of initiatives in which they were involved and not only ones with positive outcomes  4.5.3. Full administration The full administration of the survey began by e-mailing invitations to 815 contacts, 361 individuals in criminal justice agencies and 454 individuals in public health agencies. It contained a description of the survey project and background about the previous research leading up to the survey.   Members of our sample were informed that the link to the survey itself would be mailed the following week and gave them the opportunity to opt-out if they so chose; similarly they could offer names of contacts who would replace them or suggest additional contacts to add. Thus this invitation e-mail served two purposes 1  Provide the opportunity for sampled individuals to opt-out of the survey prior to receiving the link Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


2  Check for working e-mail addresses: if the initial e-mail message delivery failed, we searched for an updated address and resent the invitation A follow-up e-mail containing an individual s unique survey link was sent approximately one week later.  This ensured that a single survey would be tied to a single respondent.  Reminders were e-mailed to non-completers two weeks, four weeks, five weeks and six weeks after the survey link was first sent. In total, our final sample size was 617 government professionals. We had 71 opt-outs without replacements, for a rate of 11.5%.  We had 173 completed surveys, for a rate of 28.0%. The remaining 373 individuals did not complete the survey, for a 60.5% non-response rate; this also included four individuals who started the survey but did not finish/submit it for whatever reason We were also generally satisfied with the final representation concerning the sample make-up \(see Figure 1\omparing the respondents who completed the survey with the non-respondents, the percentages were very similar by policy domain; this was also true when we compared the respondents who completed the survey with the entire sample However, for both comparisons, we found that the percentages were very different by level of government.  Accordingly, we can say that our final results will be representative among our sample as a whole, but not necessarily for the entire population of public health and criminal justice government employees at the state and local levels   Sample Statistics by Policy Domain and Level of Government 0 20 40 60 80 100 Health-Local Health-State Justice-Local Justice-State Non-Respondents Completes Opt-Outs  Figure 1. Respondents by Policy Domain  4.6. Increasing survey response rate  A challenge with any survey is finding ways to increase the response rate as much as possible.  With the MIII survey, as with many other digital government projects, this was especially necessary given that we were essentially cold calling our potential respondents.  At every contact point beginning with the initial invitation letter, to the letter sent with the survey link, to the letter sent with each survey reminder, as well as to the instruction text for the survey itself our goals were to draw these individuals further into the survey process by convincing them not to opt-out and to have them move deeper into the instrument itself once they clicked on a survey link.  Ultimately we wanted them complete the survey and contribute to high response rates As part of our early survey planning, we had looked at published journal articles to see what other researchers were reporting by way of their response rates and survey techniques.  This allowed us to have our own internal target for what we hoped the response rate would be, for both the pilot and then the full administration.  We used four major steps prior to and during the administration of the full survey to maximize the number of completed responses 1  Pre-test After the initial survey instrument was created, a small group of University at Albany faculty, Center for Technology in Government staff members, and public health/criminal justice practitioners reviewed \(pre-tested\or content and clarity.  Recommendations from these participants were used to revise the instrument This included making edits to our wording for clarification purposes, breaking single questions into multiple questions, and changing response options 2  Pilot test Next, we engaged in pilot test administration. We selected 10% of individuals n=80\rom the contact list available in midOctober 2007 to develop our pilot sample.  This was done by sorting our contact list in alphabetical order by first name, then selecting every 10 th person from both the criminal justice and public health lists.  The administration process was designed to mimic what we planned to do for the full survey.  Invitations were sent out asking these individuals if they wished to participate.  The following week a survey link was e-mailed.  Reminders were sent at the start of weeks 3 and 4, then a final reminder the day before the survey was set to close.  The survey instrument was revised based on comments from respondents, as well as on results from basic survey analysis that was done. We also learned that reminders were very useful 3  Full administration This was begun by sending out 815 invitations asking sampled individuals to complete the survey.  The use of a survey invitation allowed us to eliminate members of the sample who wanted to opt-out and not complete the survey, as well as update our Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


contact list with either replacements \(if someone else from an agency would be completing it instead\mendations for new contacts We were also able to remove individuals we were unable to contact \(i.e., non-contacts 4  Reminders Finally, the use of reminders was key in increasing response rate.  Reminders were sent at the start of weeks 2, 4, and 5, then a final reminder sent two days before the official survey close date.  \(However we kept the survey open one extra week since a number of agencies were closed on the end date; this produced four additional completes.\After each point of contact with sampled individuals \(the initial survey link plus the four reminders\, we had a spike in the number of completed surveys on either the day of contact itself or on the following day \(see Figure 2   Number of Completes by Day 0 5 10 15 20 25 2  7 20 0 8 2  1 4  2 00 8 2  2 1  2 008 2  2 8 2008 3 6 2008 3/13/20 0 8 3  2 0/2 00 8 3  2 7  2 008  Figure 2. Effect of Reminders  4.7. Academic-Practitioner Collaboration  For our entire project, the partnership between academic researchers and government practitioners was critical.  Engaging practitioners at the early project stages, from design onwards, ensured that key pieces were not missed when developing the models or in designing the survey items and companion text Both parties have expertise and viewpoints that can be shared with each other and that each other can learn from  Buy in from top government practitioners in a certain domain is important for encouraging the participation of others, both in survey research and in research projects more generally.  As highlighted earlier in this paper, we spoke with the directors or heads of various national-level criminal justice and public health professional associations, some of whom agreed to pre-test the survey.  Our hope was to obtain names and contact information for their members \(to add to our sample list\nd to have them publicize the survey through their channels \(e.g mailing lists, national conferences, etc.\his also took away some of the cold calling aspect once the invitations went out, since many potential respondents did have some advance knowledge These organizational leaders played a role in legitimizing the survey.  If they did not feel that it was an effort worthy of their time, they would not have agreed to offer pre-test feedback or to share its existence with the members of their organization Therefore it was critical to obtain their support However, like with any collaborative endeavor, there were also some costs [6    5. Conclusions  As the area of digital government grows, it becomes incumbent upon academics and practitioners to work together to empirically examine this complex and multifaceted phenomenon.  Surveys are excellent ways to gather essential data for empirical analysis and Web-based surveys in particular are powerful alternatives to mail or telephone ones. However, in order to overcome the challenges of conducting Webbased surveys, researchers should consider the disadvantages of Web-based surveys mentioned above when designing and administering their own surveys. There are several general recommendations to maintain the quality of Web-based surveys in the literature \(see, for exam  2 4 all the target population of a survey should be analyzed carefully in order to assess their ability to access and participate in online surveys d th e desig n  of a Web survey should be respondent-friendly  This includes considering participants technological competencies and the congruence between the logic of how computers operate and respondents  expectations for completing survey T h ird, in  order to increase the response rate, personalized email cover letters, pre-notification to invite participating a survey, and follow-up reminders are importan a st b u t n o t least, to e n s u re confidentiality and privacy of respondents and to have less sampling error the survey should not be open to the general public and passwords and PIN numbers are highly suggested  The MIII project, although extensive and timeconsuming from start to finish, was an extremely worthwhile and unique initiative.  We can pave the way for future digital government studies through our demonstration of how Web-based surveys using an unbounded population of government employees can be conducted in this field of research.  Below, we offer a list of five lessons learned specifically from this digital government project Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


1\inate with professional organizations and government agencies This is one of our most important lessons learned. Given the growth of email communication, problems with spam and the resulting fact that government practitioners are less inclined to read \(let alone respond to\mail from unknown senders, being able to get support from professional associations and government agencies is critical. These organizations do not need to endorse the survey, as none of them did for our project However, if they feel the survey is relevant to their members or employees and that results will provide value to them as well, they are more willing to communicate the existence and purpose of your survey  2\ interdisciplinary and diverse research team Since digital government is an interdisciplinary field, it is extremely valuable to have a project staff with a wide variety of disciplinary backgrounds and skills.  Include individuals with strengths in research methods statistics, IT, project management, and writing for wide audiences.  Even if practitioners are not on the team itself, get their feedback starting at early stages of the research process was very positive.  Our work would not have been as successful as it was without having a varied mix of people involved  3\a flexible plan and timeline Although we created a timeline of work very early in the research process, doing Web-based surveys with government practitioners continually modified our initial timeline It is important to be aware of both internal and external factors that may cause you to need extra time. For our project, at certain steps we needed more time to tweak our survey instrument or handle feedback from practitioners.  Once we began building the instrument in the online tool, sometimes we hit technical difficulties.  During pilot testing we ran into both Thanksgiving and Christmas on the calendar which influenced our administration period Although we had hoped to start the full administration by early to mid-January 2008, it was not until the end of January/early February 2008 that we could begin 4\ Have patience and understand the government context Similarly, it s important to recognize that this is a long process.  It takes time to engage in new research that involves primary data collection with government practitioners.  Team members may come and go, or other projects may pull resources away Members of the sample may be in their position during one point of contact and gone to another government agency the next. Surveys can be a slow frustrating, and often tedious line of work; while the outcome will ideally be the production of a rich data set that can provide any number of contributions to both academic and practitioner audiences, it can be hard to see the light at the end of the tunnel while you re going through it 5\ Keep backups and have a contingency plan  This is not only a good practice for digital government research, but a good IT practice in general.  You never know when the important file you need is discovered to have a mistake, been deleted, or have gotten corrupted, especially with Web-based surveys.  Having backup versions for redundancy ensures that if something goes wrong, it can be fixed quickly.  Because we handled general administration tasks manually, instead of relying solely on Survey Gizmo s invitation manager, the project consisted of numerous data \(spreadsheet\files to keep track of contacts at each stage of the process If there was an error, backup files were key to sort out corrections In conclusion, the use of online surveys offers a powerful yet risky research mechanism. The ability to survey a large population of geographically politically \(i.e., multiple levels of government\d professionally diverse government professionals within a quick turnaround timeframe and with relatively little cost provides a lot of value. The risk comes in part from the ease and prevalence of the communication method: e-mail. While a Web-based survey may be easier to administer than a paper one the fact is that the response rate and quality of responses may be significantly lower than from a paper version. Government professionals, like many others, are inundated with e-mail communication; a significant amount of it which folks consider to be spam or generally a nuisance for other reasons This forces digital government researchers first to build a relationship with key members of the relevant government professional communities. This also requires making the case for your research and why anyone should open another unsolicited e-mail and participate in another survey they do not have time for.  Therefore, if possible an e-mailed survey link should not be the first time that the government professional learns about your organization and the research for which you re collecting. Overall, Webbased surveys are valuable for digital government researchers, but potential challenges should be considered carefully  6. Acknowledgments  This work was partially supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. ITR-0205152 Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation  7. References  1 Boy e r, K  K O l s o n, J  R   J a c k s on, E. C Electronic surveys: Advantages and disadvantages over traditional print survey  Decision Line 32\(4\, 2001, 4-7 2 B ry man A  Social Research Methods \(2 nd ed Oxford University Press, New York, 2004 3 Caf f r e y  L  Ed Information Sharing Between Within Governments Commonwealth Secretariat, London 1998 4 Curra ll S C Ju dg e  T  A  Measuring trust between organizational boundary role persons  Organization Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 64 2\95 151-170 5 D a w e s  S. S Interagency Information Sharing Expected Benefits, Manageable Risks  Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, 15 3\, 1996, 377-394  6 D a w e s  S. S H e lbig N   Building a ResearchPractice Partnership: Lessons from a Government IT Workforce Study Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2007 7 D a w e s  S. S  P a rd o, T  A  200 2  Building Collaborative Digital Government Systems: Systematic Constraints and Effective Practices In W. J. McIver & A K. Elmagarmid, \(Eds Advances in Digital Government Technology, Human Factors, and Policy pp. 259-273 Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA, 2002  8 D a w e s  S. S  P r  f onta i ne   L  Understanding New Models of Collaboration for Delivering Government Services  Communications of the ACM, 46 1\03, 4042 9 Dillm a n D.A T o rtora R.D  Bow ke r, D P r inc i ple s  for constructing web surveys. Working paper. Retrieved August 20, 2008 from http://www.sesrc.wsu.edu/dillman/papers/websurveyppr.pd f 10 Eg le ne  O D a w e s  S. S  Sc hne ide r  C. A  Authority and Leadership Patterns in Public Sector Knowledge Networks  The American Review of Public Administration, 37 1\2007, 91-113  11 G il-G a rc a J  R P a r do T  A  Multi-Method Approaches to Digital Government Research: Value Lessons and Implementation Challenges Proceedings of the 39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2006. \(Creswell, J. W Research Design Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods Approaches  SAGE Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA, 2003 12 G il-G a rc a J  R., Che ng a l urSm ith, I D u c h e s s i  P Collaborative E-Government: Impediments and Benefits of Information Sharing Projects in the Public Sector  European Journal of Information Systems, 16 2\, 2007 121-133 13 G il-G a rc a J  R., P a r do T  A  Burk e  G  B Government Leadership in Multi-Sector IT-Enabled Networks: Lessons from the Response to the West Nile Virus Outbreak Proceedings of the Leading the Future of the Public Sector: The Third Transatlantic Dialogue Workshop \(May 31 June 2, 2007\niversity of Delaware, Newark, Delaware, USA  14 G il-G a rc a J  R., Sc hne ide r   C P a rd o, T  A   Cresswell, A. M Interorganizational Information Integration in the Criminal Justice Enterprise: Preliminary Lessons from State and County Initiatives Proceedings of the 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2005 15 G l a s e r B. G  Basics of Grounded Theory Analysis Emergence vs. Forcing Sociology Press, Mill Valley, CA 1992 16 G l a s e r B. G  Stra us s  A  L  Discovery of Grounded Theory: Strategies for Qualitative Research  Aldine Transaction, Chicago, IL, 1967 17 G r a n e llo, D  H   W h e a t on J  E  Online  Data Collection: Strategies for Research  Journal of Counseling Development  82 4\, 2004, 387-393 18 G un H  Web-based Surveys: Changing the Survey Process  First Monday 7\(2\, 2002 1 Jarven p aa S  L   Ives B   Executive involvement and participation in the management of information technology  MIS Quarterly, 15 2\991, 205-227 20 L a n f r e d C. W  The Paradox of Self-Management Individual and Group Autonomy in Work Groups  Journal of Organization Behavior, 21 5\, 2000, 563-585 21 L e f e v e r, S., D a l, M  Ma tt hia s d ttir, A Online Data Collection in Academic Research: Advantages and Limitations  British Journal of Educational Technology 38 4\, 2007, 574-582 22  P a r d o  T  A G ilG a rc  a J  R Burk e  G  B Sustainable Cross-Boundary Information Sharing In H Chen et al. \(Eds Digital Government: E-Government Research, Case Studies, and Implementation pp. 421-438 Springer, New York, 2008  23  Se g a rs A   G r ov e r V  Strategic Information Systems Planning and Success: An Investigation of the Construct and its Measurement  MIS Quarterly, 22 2 1998, 139-163 24 n n o n D  M J o hns on T  E Se a r c y S., L o tt, A  Using electronic surveys: Advice from survey professionals  Practical Assessment, Research Evaluation 8 \(1 25 us s  A  Cor bin  J    Basics of Qualitative Research. Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA 1998 26 U m ba c h  P  D  Web surveys: Best practices  New Directions for Institutional Research 121, 2004, 23-38 27  V a n Se lm M J a nk ow s k i N  W  Conducting online surveys  Quality & Quantity 40\(3\, 2006, 435456  2 W r i g h t  K B   Researching Internet-based populations: Advantages and disadvantages of online survey research, online questionnaire authoring software packages, and web survey services  Journal of ComputerMediated Communication 10\(3\, 2005, 1-19  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


11 nI KK t nn nn nd nd nd nd X yz yz y y z z a      13 The heading estimate  can then be calculated geometrically using the relative displacement of the lateral components of the intersection line in the navigation frame x = East and y = North 14        min,max min,max,atan2  xx yy II II?  \(14 4. THEORETICAL PERFORMANCE USING SYNTHESIZED FEATURES Simulation Procedure This section will describe a simulation that was developed to assess the theoretical heading accuracy possible from ALS data and a perfect synthesized feature.  The first step of the simulation was to define the scanner parameters that reflect those likely to be used in a flight test: 30 lines per second, 10,000 pulses per second, and a  30 deg field of view.  ALS angles, times, and ranges were then simulated using these parameters.  A ground feature was synthesized by replacing the simulated ranges at the correct ground positions with those calculated according to the desired feature parameters \(i.e. plane equations synthesis and plane intersection procedure described in this section is summarized in the block diagram shown in Figure 8  Figure 8: Feature Synthesis and Plane Intersection Block Diagram Table 1: Simulation Parameters Parameter Value Aircraft Altitude 350, m Points in Surface 1 127 Points in Surface 2 248 Feature Length 25.79, m Feature Width 51.12, m The synthesized feature for this paper was based on airborne measurements of the size, location, and roof slope parameters of the AEC hangar at the Ohio University Airport.  For an aircraft at ~350m altitude in the simulation the synthesized hangar would be illuminated by 127 points 


on surface 1 and 248 points on surface 2 contained within a feature footprint with dimensions of 25.79 m long x 51.12 m wide as summarized in Table 1.  The flight profile from a January 2005 flight test [7] was used to establish the aircraft position and orientation over the two second flight duration needed to extract the simulated feature.  For the data collection phase, the hangar building was over flown while collecting GPS, INS, and ALS data.  In the synthesis phase actual GPS and INS information were used, but the ALS data was replaced with simulated data so that the ALS measurement errors could be controlled.  The heading derived from the measured ALS flight data will be compared with the simulation in the next section Two existing simulators were used to generate the ALS scan angle and ranges measurements [9].  An angle simulator was used to produce an array of angles and times that correspond to the laser scanner parameters.  A range simulator was used to produce range estimates by calculating the geometric difference between the ALS height and the terrain crossing \(simulated using a Digital Terrain Elevation Data \(DTED terrain crossing was found by increasing the range until it intersected the terrain and then iterated until the height accuracy was within some threshold \(1 ?m in this case The simulated range accuracy was determined from the height accuracy using the geometric relationship described in \(15 7 cos dHdR =  \(15 where dR = Range accuracy dH = Height accuracy ALS scan angle The top subplot of Figure 9 illustrates the range accuracy threshold used by the simulator \(determined from the height error and \(15 can be seen in the bottom subplot of Figure 9 because of the range iteration technique.  A 1 ?m height accuracy \(iteration threshold sufficiently small \(i.e. approximating true range influence the standard deviation of the final simulated range measurement \(i.e. true range + sensor noise better represent the capabilities of the true ALS, 25 mm of Additive White Gaussian Noise \(AWGN range measurement as shown in the top subplot of Figure 10 following with the Gaussian distribution function shown in the bottom subplot.  The DTED accuracy was not important for this analysis since only the range measurements to the simulated feature were required for the orientation calculations.  The range to the DTED merely provides terrain measurements for height contrast in the feature extraction algorithms  Figure 9: Range Error Distribution from the Simulator   Figure 10: Range Error + Noise Distribution with 25 mm Noise The feature was synthesized by calculating its height using the planar equations for surface 1 and surface 2 of the AEC hangar roof and the illuminated ground pulse positions as shown in \(16 2 22 11   BH BH   


 Surface Surface V V 16 where V = Vertical height H = Horizontal position vector   B = Plane parameters \(Surface 1 or Surface 2 Pulses that fall within a predetermined space \(represented by white space in Figure 11 points.  The DTED terrain heights at these positions were replaced with feature heights from a feature database prior to range simulation. The synthesized feature is shown in Figure 12  Figure 11: Synthesized Feature Footprint   Figure 12: Synthesized Feature Extraction Simulation Results for Typical System Performance Once a feature has been simulated, the feature extraction and plane intersection algorithms described in the previous section are used to determine the feature orientation.  The result of the least squares plane fit is shown in Figure 13 Notice that a gap is present near the ridgeline in Figure 13 This is due to the exclusion of the actual ridge point Because the peak of the roof contains a ridge cap, inclusion of these points in surface 1 or surface 2 would distort the results.  By using the plane intersection method, these few points \(16 hundred other points would remain in the plane.  The height residuals after subtracting the plane fit are shown in Figure 14.  As expected, these height residuals reflect the same accuracy  25 mm 1 shown previously in Figure 10.  The plane residuals shown in Figure 14 can be used to measure the range accuracy directly from the data.  The next section will describe how to use this information to predict the heading accuracy 8  Figure 13: Data Point Segregation and Plane Fit   Figure 14: Plane Fit Residuals The plane parameters, 1B  and 2B  are then used to find the equation of the intersection line as is shown in Figure 15 The intersection line contains heading information for comparison with some reference data.  In this case, the reference was derived from the same range simulation without noise  Figure 15: Plane / Plane Intersection Line Multiple repetitions of the synthesized feature extraction and plane intersection algorithm were used to determine the repeatable accuracy of the technique over 5000 Monte Carlo runs as shown by the block diagram in Figure 8.  The resulting 1? heading accuracy is shown in Figure 16 for  25 mm 1? ALS range accuracy  Figure 16: Heading Accuracy for 25 mm Range Error The error performance is summarized in Table 2.  The bias term is statistically zero \(as would be expected from the zero mean AWGN added to the simulated range heading error is better than a tenth of a degree Table 2: Heading Error Summary Error Type Magnitude Heading Error Mean 4.0778 x 10-4, deg 1? Heading Standard Deviation 0.0395, deg 0.69, mrad 


1? Heading Standard Deviation 0.0395, deg 0.69, mrad Sensitivity Analysis for Varying System Performance In order to understand how the heading error varies with parameters such as laser ranging accuracy, position accuracy, and heading bias, a sensitivity analysis was conducted.  For computational efficiency the number of repetitions at each parameter setting was reduced to 1000 For each set of 1000 repetitions of the plane intersection algorithm, the one parameter was linearly increased and its affect on the heading accuracy was assessed.  The range accuracy will be considered first, whereby the simulated range noise was increase in 46 steps from 0.001m until 0.31m.  The heading error is computed by comparing the noisy simulated feature intersection with a noise-free feature intersection.  Figure 17 shows the increase in heading standard deviation as the range standard deviation increases while Figure 18 shows the rate of change of the standard deviation per unit of range noise.  Although not shown here the heading resolution bias is zero-mean up to 15 cm and increases to almost 0.6 deg for 30 cm of range noise 9  Figure 17: Heading Error Standard Deviation  Figure 18: Heading Error Standard Deviation Growth Rate per Unit of Range Noise The results shown in Figure 17 illustrate a fairly linear increase in heading error growth for small range errors \(less than 12 cm rate of error growth is constant \(~1.53 deg/m range error.  The results shown in the previous section can be directly estimated using these figures.  If a range noise standard deviation of 25 mm is multiplied by a 1.53 deg/m error growth rate, the predicted heading accuracy would be 0.668 mrad.  This predicted accuracy is approximately the same as the accuracy found from simulation summarized in Table 2 The next parameter to be considered was a constant heading bias.  For the algorithm presented in this paper, the heading bias must be consistent with the position error as would be the case for an IMU operating in a dead reckoning mode Consequently, a heading error was simulated from 0 to 2 degrees in the inertial measurements and then the ENU position was corrupted using the erroneous heading in the direction cosines matrix.  Figure 19 illustrates the residual heading resolution error bias after the simulated heading bias has been removed.  Figure 20 illustrates the standard deviation of the heading resolution error  Figure 19: Heading Resolution Error Bias as a Function of Injected Heading Bias   Figure 20: Heading Resolution Error Standard Deviation as a Function of Injected Heading Bias Up to 2 deg of injected heading bias, there is not discernable effect on the heading resolution accuracy in either the mean or the standard deviation.  This illustrates that the algorithm can detect a constant heading bias without sensitivity to its magnitude The final parameter to be considered was position noise The position noise was varied linearly from 0 to 10 cm in 48 steps.  The response of the error mean to position noise is shown in Figure 21 while the response of the error standard deviation to position noise is shown in Figure 22 10  Figure 21: Heading Resolution Error Bias as a Function of Injected Position Noise   Figure 22: Heading Resolution Error Standard 


Figure 22: Heading Resolution Error Standard Deviation as a Function of Injected Position Noise As the injected position noise increases, the heading error bias remained nearly constant at the mm-level as would be expected since the injected position noise was AWGN Similarly, the heading error standard deviation increases as the injected position noise increases.  As with the laser range noise, the position noise will also determine the heading determination standard deviation.  Inertial positions are generally low noise \(better than 1 cm source is not felt to be as significant of a contributor \(&lt; 0.04 deg As an aside, it is interesting to note that this error will increase slightly as the aircraft height increases.  This is thought to be due to the reduced number of laser pulses that comprise each plane in the intersection equation.  For example, if the aircraft height increases from 350m to 400 m, the pulse count decreases to 68 pulses in surface 1 and 141 pulses in surface 2.  The heading accuracy will decrease by approximately 0.01 degrees 5. FLIGHT TEST PROOF OF CONCEPT  Figure 23: Flight Path over AEC Hangar The flight test data was collected in January 2005 and provided ALS measurements containing several features at the Ohio University Airport including the AEC hangar [7 The flight path over the hangar is shown in Figure 23.  The ALS settings during this flight test were more optimal for this application than for mapping since the gaps between scan lines was large compared to the gap between pulses in a line.  In September 2005, a static GPS survey was conducted \(relative to the KUNI GPS Continuously Operating Reference Station the AEC hangar.  The GPS survey provided an absolute reference to compare with the ALS measurements.  The lateral measurement accuracy of this survey was thought to be on the order of  20 cm because of antenna placement uncertainty Planes were fit to the ALS data from each side of the hangar roof as described previously as shown in Figure 24.  The plane fits are shown in lighter colors \(cyan and magenta than the measured data \(blue and red  Figure 24: Two Planes fit to the Data  Figure 24 is only intended to provide an overview since the plane fit residuals contain more information as shown in Figure 25.  The plane fit residuals indicate 9 cm of height accuracy \(1 11  Figure 25: Plane Fit Residuals The resulting plane intersection line was overlaid on the ALS measurements as shown in Figure 26.  The line was a close visual match, but when comparing the calculated line with the surveyed line, slight errors can be observed  Figure 26: Line Formed by Plane Intersection A closer examination of the two lines in the horizontal plane reveals their differences in the heading as shown in Figure 27  Figure 27: Intersection Line Comparison As mentioned previously, the measured plane-fit residuals provide an indication of the heading accuracy that could be expected from the real data if the survey was perfect.  Since the flight test residuals were within the linear region of the empirical error curves shown in Figure 17, the expected heading accuracy should be predictable.  Since the measured range accuracy is 9 cm \(from the plane-ft residuals heading accuracy is expected to be 0.1377 deg \(at 1.53 


deg/m to 2.4 mrad.  This accuracy is better than the typical heading alignment accuracy of a commercial navigation grade INS The actual heading angle of the two vectors is summarized in Table 3 Table 3: Hangar Ridge Vector Comparison Heading Survey 60.9436, deg Intersection 61.8772, deg Difference 0.9336, deg 16.29, mrad The importance of this proof of concept was to demonstrate the technique and to show that the accuracy can be predicted.  In this case there are several sources of uncertainty that might explain part of the performance degradation The reference survey introduced lateral antenna placement errors of  20cm.  The antenna placement uncertainty is expected to be the dominant error source in the measured data presented here.  Over a 25 m baseline, a  20 cm placement error will become a 0.916 deg pointing error worst case prediction using flight test data Further effort is needed to make a more accurate ground feature survey, but the concept of heading determination from ALS plane intersections has been demonstrated 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper presented results that leverage the accuracy and high number of \(i.e., oversampled measurements along with a priori surveyed features to determine airborne platform heading.  Plane fitting has the affect of averaging the oversampled measurements and can deliver mrad-level heading observations.  The ALS-derived heading information shown in this paper could be used to periodically calibrate tactical grade IMU heading biases while in flight, to perform an ALS / IMU calibration prior to a terrain aided landing, or simply to stabilize the inertial heading measurements when GPS is unavailable.  A simulation was presented to show the theoretical performance of heading determination from plane intersections using typical ALS parameters.  With a perfect survey, the heading accuracy was better than 1 mrad.  Using the same simulation software, a theoretical sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the effect of range noise, heading bias, and position noise on the heading accuracy.  The heading standard deviation was shown to be a function of the range measurement and position standard deviations.  Inertial positions are generally low noise, so this error source was not deemed to be as significant of a contributor as the range noise.  The heading error magnitude did not change the performance in a noticeable way. This theoretical performance assessment was then compared with 12 flight test data.  While the flight test performance was not as good as expected, the error sources were justified.  Even with large survey uncertainties, the heading measurement performance was still within 1 deg.  If a better survey was available, the flight test results were expected to be accurate to within a few mrad Operationally, there are many things than can be done to improve these results.  This paper discussed flight over a single building.  Accuracy can potentially be improved by flying over multiple buildings of larger sizes and at lower altitudes or other types of features.  Additionally, the heading error growth rates could be predicted by tracking the heading change while flying over a building or between two buildings.  With careful attention to calibration and measurement accuracy, these heading alignments can potentially be made at a higher accuracy than a navigation grade INS can align its heading REFERENCES 1] Schenk, T  Modeling and recovering systematic 


1] Schenk, T  Modeling and recovering systematic errors in airborne laser scanners  Proceedings of the OEEPE workshop on Airborne Laserscanning and Interferometric SAR for Detailed Digital Elevation Models, OEEPE Publication no. 40, 2001, pp. 40-48  2] Crombaghs, M.J.E., Brugelmann, R., and d Min, E.J  On the Adjustment of Overlapping Strips of Laseraltimeter Height Data  International Archives of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 2000, 33 B3/1   3] Dickman, J., and Uijt de Haag, M  Aircraft Heading Measurement Potential from an Airborne Laser Scanner Using Edge Extraction  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 3-10, 2007  4] Kraus, K., Pfeifer, N  Determination of Terrain Models in Wooded Areas with Airborne Laser Scanner Data  ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 1998, 53, pp. 193-203  5] Maas, H., Vosselman, G  Two Algorithms for Extracting Building Models from Raw Laser Altimetry Data  ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 1999, 54, pp. 193-203  6] Venable, D., Campbell, J., and Uijt de Haag, M  Feature Extraction and Separation in Airborne Laser Scanner Terrain Integrity Monitors  Digital Avionics Systems Conference, 2005  7] Campbell, J. L., M. Uijt de Haag, van Graas, F  Terrain Referenced Precision Approach Guidance   Proceedings of the ION National Technical Meeting 2005, San Diego, CA, January 24-26, 2005, pp. 643653  8] http://www.geom.umn.edu/software/download/COPYI NG.html, accessed May 2007  9] V. Nguyen, et. al  A Comparison of Line Extraction Algorithms Using 2D Laser Rangefinder for Indoor Mobile Robotics  Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, Aug. 2-6, 2005, pp. 1929-1934  10] Vadlamani, A  Preliminary Design and Analysis of a LIDAR Based Obstacle Detection System   Proceedings of the 24th Digital Avionics Systems Conference  13 BIOGRAPHY Jeff Dickman graduated from Ohio University in 2008 with a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering His research emphasizes navigation system integration and sensor stabilization.  He has also been involved with GPS landing system research and antenna design and measurement.  He is presently working on vision-aided navigation systems.  He is a member of the IEEE ION, AIAA, Eta Kappa Nu, and Tau Beta Pi  Maarten Uijt de Haag is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering at Ohio University and a Principal Investigator with the Ohio University 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


