     Abstract Variable Orderings \(VOs\a restriction in the process of Bayesian Networks \(BNs induction. The VO information can significantly reduce the search space and allow some algorithms to reach good results Previous works reported in th e literature suggest that the combination of Evolutionary Algorithms \(EAs worth when learning a Bayesia n Network structure from data However, most works on this area do not explore specific characteristics of the domain, thus they simply apply classic evolutionary operators. In addition, most works did not report good results when applied to big BNs. This paper proposes a new mutation operator, named Distance-Based Mutation Operator \(DMO\to be used with the Variable Ordering Evolutionary Algorithm \(VOEA\Experimental results obtained by VOEA are compared to ones achieved by VOGA Variable Ordering Gene tic Algorithm\indicated improvement in the quality of the obtained VO and in the BN induced structure VI I NTRODUCTION  AYESIAN Networks \(BNs graphical representations of probability distributions and have been widely used to model and represent uncertai nty. The development of automatic methods for learning BN structures directly from data is a relevant problem, and is considered a difficult task because the number of possible structures grows exponentially according to the number of variables Therefore, finding the BN structure that better represents the dependences among the variables is not a trivial task. This is a NP-Complete problem, thus it is hard to identify the best solution reduce the search space, some constraints can be imposed during the induction process. One possible constraint is the definition of a Variable Ordering \(VO The definition of a VO can significantly reduce the search space and may play an important role in the process of BNs induction. Defining a suitabl e VO is, however, a complex problem to be performed mainly because it requires prior knowledge about the m  Evolutionary Algorithms EAs make them very efficient as search and optimization tools  Authors acknowledge the Brazilian research agency CNPQ and FAPESP for their financial support E. B. Santos is with the Federal Univer sity of Rio de Janeiro and Federal University of S„o Carlos - Brazil. E-mail: edimilson_santos@dc.ufscar.br E. R. Hruschka Jr. is with the Federal University of S„o Carlos - Brazil E-mail: estevam@dc.ufscar.br E. R. Hruschka is with the University of S„o Paulo Ö Brasil. E-mail: erh@icmc.usp.br N. F. F. Ebecken is with the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro Brasil. E-mail: nelson@ntt.ufrj.br  for many different types of problem and som e works  seek suitable VOs to induce BNs structures from data. However, to our knowledge, the proposed EAs are mainly based on canonical crossover and mutation operators to address this problem. In this paper we show that an operator specially designed to the VO definition problem can help to improve the quality of BN structures induced from data. In this sense, we propose a new mutation operator named Distance-based Mutation Operator \(DMO ically controls the permutation of genes in the chromosomes of an EA. The proposed EA is called VOEA \(Variable Ordering Evolutionary Algorithm\ and ext ends the ideas presented in  fluence of a single evolutionary operator specially designed to search for suitable VOs The remainder of this paper is organized as follows Section 2 provides a brief overview of BNs, as well as of the related structure learni ng problem. Section 3 addresses related work, whereas Section 4 introduces the DistanceBased Mutation Operator \(DMO\some preliminary experiments with the proposed operator. Finally Section 6 brings the concludi ng remarks and points out some future work VII B ACKGROUND   Bayesian Networks \(BNs so known as belief networks or causal networks, are proba bilistic graphical models in which the nodes represent random variables and the arcs represent the direct connection between them. A BN consists DAG or graphical structure Ö and ii probability table \(CPT\erical parameters The DAG can be represented by G = \(V, E and consists of a set of nodes V = {X 1 X 2 X n  set E  of pairs of distinct elements in V Each node in V  corresponds to a discrete random variable in the domain The elements of E are named edges \(or arcs X i  X j describes a parent and child relation, where X i is the parent and X j is the child. All parents of X j constitute the parent set of X j denoted by  Xj In addition to the graph each node X k has an associated CPT specifying the probability of each possible state of X k given each possible combination of states of the nodes in  Xk If a node X k is such that  Xk   its associated table gives the marginal probabilities of X k  In the BN induction process, the Variable Ordering \(VO A Distance-Based Mutation Operator for Learning Bayesian Network Structures using Evolutionary Algorithms Edimilson B. dos Santos, Estevam R. Hruschka Jr., Eduardo R Hruschka, and Nelson F. F. Ebecken B 978-1-4244-8126-2/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 


   information may be used as a restriction to reduce the search space, as performed by the K2 algorithm a BN from data using a heuristic search procedure. It receives as input a complete dataset and a VO. K2 is broadly used due to its good performance in terms of computational time complexity as well as its good results when an adequate   The attribute preorder assumption is a critical issue and it is used to reduce the number of possible structures to be learned. In this sense, K2 uses an ordered list \(containing all the attributes including the class\asserts that only the attributes positioned before a given attribute A may be parents of A. The first attribute in the list has no parent, i.e it is the root node of the BN The K2 algorithm uses a greedy process to search for the best structure. Given a dataset D with M objects and a VO, it begins as if every node has no parent. Then, beginning with the second attribute from the ordered list \(the first one is the root node\that maximize the whole probability structure are added to the network. The process is repeated for all attributes in order to get the best structure. K2 metric for evaluating each possible parent set to each variable is defined by equation \(1         i i q j i r k ijk i ij i X N r N r i X g 11   1   1       1  where each attribute X i  i 1 n  r i possible values  v i1 v i2 v ir i  D is a dataset with m objects. Each attribute X i has as its set of parents  X i and q i is the number of instantiations of  Xi  N ijk is the number of objects in D in which X i has value v ik and  X i is instantiated as w ij  w ij  represents the j th instantiation relative to D of  X i  N ij  012 N ijk  Having defined the best structure, the network conditional probabilities are d etermined using a Bayesian estimation of the \(predefined network structure probability The VO information may not be available in real world  por tant to emphasize that an exhaustive search through all the orderings n to a problem with n variables\ains in tractable for big problems Therefore, the VO is often defined as a random list to the learning algorithms, then, poor results tend to be produced  Thus som e heuristics have been proposed to find a suitable VO. In this paper, an Evolutionary Algorithm \(EA using a specially designed mu tation operator is proposed details will be provided in Section 4 VIII.R ELATED W ORK   Several works proposing solutions to search for a suitable VO to BN structure learning can be found in the literature Most of them, however, simply use the cannonical genetic algorithm operators and evaluate the obtained results in problems having a small number of variables. Considering that, the number of optimal VOs depends on the number of variables in the problem and on the density of their relationships, the search for a suitable VO in problems having a small number of variables might be relativelly simple, thus, it might not be worth to use sophisticated techniques such as evolutionary algorithms. On the other hand, when the problem involves a high number of densily connected variables, the search for a suitable VO tends to be a harder problem, therefore being suitable the application of more sophisticate techni ques such as evolutionary algorithms In the remaider of this section we present works related to the problem of identificati on of suitable VO for learning Bayesian Networks from data and give a brief overview of their main ideas  that incorporates an approach based on information theory and another approach based on search and score to induce BNs. The VO information is found by the approach based on tests of conditional independence and th en it is transmitted to K2 to induce the network structure In Campos e thods to obtain a good approximation to the optimal ordering using only partial information are proposed. More specifically, the authors use only relations of conditional independence of order zero and order one, and search for the VO that best preserves this information. The search process is performed by genetic algorithm and simulated annealing  ation of Distribution Algorithmsé \(EDAs to obtain the optimal VO for the K2 algorithm: UMDA \(Univariate Marginal Distribution Algorithm\ and MIMIC \(Mutual Information Maximization for Input Clustering A Evolutionary Algorithms using K2 for searching VOs  e thodology to induce BN structures from data. The me thodology is based on the search for better VO by using genetic algorithms based on K2. Since the problem of finding an optimal VO resembles the traveling salesman problem \(TSP\operators developed for TSP were used in the employed genetic algorithm. The the Alarm their experimental evaluati on . None of the best orderings obtained using the searches with genetic algorithms was able to improve the evaluation of an initial ordering applied by the K2 algorithm  e d at searching for topological VOs and applies the K2 algorithm at each ordering. The experiments and Alarm The results obtained were not satisfactory for Alarm  nam ed K2GA a genetic algorithm that uses a modified version of the K2 heuristic to improve search efficiency.  Among the databases used, the Alarm \(37 variables\satisfactory results in terms of the quality of the learned structure, thus 


   revealing that the found VO might not be good enough for that specific dataset  and [20 hybrid m e thods have been proposed They combine the theory of EAs and BNs. These methods aim at optimizing the i nduction of network structures by searching for a suitable VO and are named VOGA and VOGAC. Both methods use canonical genetic operators The crossover operator chosen has been OX \(Order Crossover\For mutation, it is used an order based operator Both methods have presented good results for small and medium databases IX D ISTANCE B ASED M UTATION O PERATOR DMO  In this paper, a new mutation operator, called DistanceBased Mutation Operator \(DM O\DMO has three variables as inpu t: the first is the target chromosome c the second is the target gene g and the third is the distance d see Fig. 1\on d DMO randomly selects a gene g  g  g  c and performs a permutation using g and g values. To be more specific suppose a chromosome c having n genes represented as integers as in [1, 2, 3 n   W h en perform ing a m u tation operation using DMO, supose the target gene chosen to be changed is the 4 th gene and the distance equals to 2 g 4 and d 2 g must be selected from gene 2 to gene 6 including these  Fig. 1. DMO Algorithm  The initial idea of DMO is to maintain exploration and exploitation of the EA and achieve greater efficiency without using the crossover operator.  Thus, the search can be guided according to the distance of permutation between two genes. If the distance is large, the permutation of genes can be considered global. Therefore, it may generate new chromosomes in which a v ariable that was the last one \(in the ordered list\ight even become the first. Thus, it can drastically change the parent/child tests performed by K2 On the other hand, if the distance is small, the permutation tends to be local and to generate chromosomes closer to the average population, without devi ating sharply from the region of search explored The DMO operator scans the search space and seeks for the suitable ordering in a dynamic fashion. A simple permutation of nearby genes may lead to search for another area of the search space, starting the search in a new region without drastically changing the generation. Thus, it is possible to search for suitable orderings dynamically avoiding local optima In the experiments presented in Section 6, the permutation distance of genes is altered during the course of generations The distance decreases according to the evolution of the best individuals, in such a way that the good chromosomes do not suffer abrupt changes in the last generations. This size can be dynamically set, and initially, it is equal to the size of the chromosome and decreases over the generations. It is calculate using the following function        Min Max Average Max Max actual k k k k s s     2   where s actual is the current distance between two genes of the chromosome s Max is the maximum distance between two genes \(initially it is equal to chromosome size k Max is the maximum distance among orderings of the current generation k Average is the average distance among orderings and k Min is the minimum distance among orderings To measure the distance between two orderings, in this work, we employ two possible metrics as described below  1 Kendall tau distance it is a m etric widely used and which counts the number of discordant pairs between two lists. The greater the distance, the more dissimilar are the two lists. The Kend all distance is defined as     P j i j i K K    2 1  2 1       015 015 015 015  3  where P is the set of unordered pairs of dis tinct elements in the lists 015 1 e 015 2 0    2 1   015 015 j i K if i and j are in the same order in 015 1 e 015 2 1    2 1   015 015 j i K if i and j are in opposite order in 015 1 e 015 2 2 Spearman's is often thought of as being the Pearson correlation coefficient between the ranked variables. In practice, however, a simpler procedure is norm ally used to calculate . The n  raw scores Xi, Yi are converted to ranks xi, yi and the differences di = xi  yi between the ranks of each observation on the two variabl es are calculated. The Spearmanês coefficient  is given by  1  6 1 2 2     n n d i   4  DMO Algorithm  Input: chromosome c target gene g distance d  Output c   1 interval = a set of values from d-g to d+g  2 g random\(interval 3 c permutation c  g, g  c is the new chromosome where g and g were permuted 4 end{DMO  


   The idea of using two different metrics to measure the distance between two di fferent orderings \(during the search for suitable VOs tify how related the obtained empirical results are to a specific distance metric X.E XPERIMENTS AND A NALYSIS OF R ESULTS   The experiments performed with the DMO operator involved seven knowledge domains that have its characteristics summarized in Table 2. The Alarm domain  is well-known in the Bayesian Networks com m unity and has 37 variables. The Synthetic 1 Synthetic 2 and Synthetic 3 domains have 32 variables each and were created using a sampling strategy applied to the structures of Bayesian classifiers described in Fig 2. The Synthetic 50-50, Synthetic 50-100, Synthetic 50-200 and Sy nthetic 50-300 domains were random and have 50 variables each and 50, 100, 200 and 300 arcs, respectively. The structures of these four BNs are shown in Fig 3. The different numbers of arcs were generated to verify the impact of the network density in the task of obtaining optimal orderings T ABLE 2  D ATASET DESCRIPTION WITH DATASET NAME D OMAIN   NUMBER OF ATTRIBUTES PLUS CLASS AT NUMBER OF INSTANCES IN AND NUMBER OF CLASSES CL  Alar m Synth 1 Synth 2 Synth 3 Synth 50-50 Synth 50-100 Synth 50-200 Synth 50-300 AT 37 32 32 32 50 50 50 50 IN 10000 1000 0 1000 0 1000 0 50000 50000 50000 50000 CL 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2  Considering that we intend to empirically assess the impact of using a single specially designed mutation operator \(DMO\of using both, mutation and crossover canonical operators \(as done in VOGA\using a single canonical mutation operat or, the following setings were defined. For algorithms were executed. VOEA extends the ideas  a single evolutionary operator for searching for suitable VOs Here, VOEA was implemented based on eight different approaches, namely VOEA, VOEA_CM-f, VOEA_CM-g VOEA_DMO-Kendall, VOEA_DMO-Spearman VOEA_DMO-g, VOEA_DMO-Kendall-rate and VOEA_DMO-Spearman-rate. All these eight different implementations are described in the sequel   Synthetic 1   Synthetic 2   Synthetic 3 Fig. 2. Bayesian Networks repr esenting Synthetic 1, Synthetic 2 and Synthetic 3 domains. The gr aphical representations were created using GeNie Software [8  1 VOEA this is VOEA algoritm implemented having the canonical mutation operator based on order as the single evolutionary operator. In additi on, the mutation rate has been mainted fixed  2 VOEA_CM-f in this implementation VOEA has the canonical mutation \(CM\operator \(based on order its single operator, but it uses dynamic mutation rate which is calculated by function \(5     


         Min Max Average Max Max actual g g g g r r      5  where r actual is the value of new mutation rate r max is the initial rate provided by user and the g values refer to the population chromosome fitness calculated by g in \(1  3 VOEA_CM-g it also uses a single canonical mutation operator \(CM\from VOEA_CM-f, its dynamic mutation rate is initialized by the user and it decreases over generation. Empirically, it was decided that the mutation rate from the previous generation is multiplied by 0.9 for each new generation, thus decreasing the mutation rate in a linear way in each generation  4 VOEA_DMO-Kendall this is the VOEA algorithm having the DMO operator as its single operator. The mutation rate is fixed and the permutation distance of genes is dynamically cal culated using  \(2 3  5 VOEA_DMO-Spearman this is the VOEA algorithm having the DMO operator as its single operator. The mutation rate is fixed and the permutation distance of genes is dynamically cal culated using  \(2 4  6 VOEA_DMO-g it also has DMO as its single operator and a fixed mutation rate but differently from VOEA_DMO-f, the permutation distance of genes is initially equal to the size of the chromosome and decreases over generations. Empirically, it was decided that the size of the distance is multiplied by 0.9 in each generation  7 VOEA_DMO-Kendall-rate In order to estimate the influence of dynamic mutation rate with the DMO operator, a VOEA_DMO-Kendall-rate has been developed to combine them. Thus, VOEA_DMO Kendall-rate uses DMO operator as in VOEA_DMOKendall and the dynamic mutation rate as in VOEA_CM-f  8 VOEA_DMO-Spearman-rate it uses DMO operator as in VOEA_DMO-Spearman and the dynamic mutation rate as in VOEA_CM-f    Synthetic 50-50   Synthetic 50-100  Synthetic 50-200 Synthetic 50-300  Fig. 3. Bayesian Networks represen ting Synthetic 50-50, Synthetic 50-100 Synthetic 50-200 and Synthetic 50-300 domains. The graphical representations were created using We 


   The following steps define the experimental methodology for each of the 11 employed datasets in more detail  1 The experiments involved VOGA using crossover \(OX and mutation \(based on order\and all VOEA aforementioned versions  2 For a given dataset, all the algorithms were assessed in a number of runs, using the same initial population  3 The crossover rate has been set to 0.8 and the mutation rate has been initialized with 0.3. These values have been defined empirically  4 adopted as fitness function  5 Since the algorithms have stochastic nature, more than one run is necessary to verify th e final solution. For this reason, in the results presented in this paper, for each dataset \(except for the Synthetic 50-100, 50-200 and 50-300, due to their high running times was run 35 times. Table 3 and Table 4 present the average Bayesian score \(g\ber of necessary generations to reach the solution, respectively  Considering the results shown in Table 3, some observations are possible. Taking into consideration all the assessed domains, the Bayesian score \(g function with VOEA versions are better than the ones achieved by VOGA \(except to the Synthetic 50-50 domain\Thus, as for these domains, the mutation operator alone tended to produce better VOs.  In addition, VOEA_DMO-Kendall VOEA_DMO-Spearman, VOEA_DMO-Kendall-rate and VOEA_DMO-Spearman-rate obtained better results than VOEA in 5 datasets. It shows a tendency on the DMO operator finding better VOs than canonical mutation operator Table 4 revels VOGA converged faster than VOEA versions in 4 out of 7 datasets. VOEA versions have however, achieved best g values for mo st of the data sets. It means DMO alone does not seem to allow a faster convergence for the VOs problem. This fact might not be surprising considering that DM O is a mutation operator Another interesting observation is that DMO favored network structures very connected where the nodes have many children. Denser network structures tend to have a reduced number of optimal orderings. DMO operator may create chromosomes closer to each other when it restricts the size of permutation di stance between two genes. For instance, consider the chromosomes of final generations of network of Fig 4. These chromosomes should not be changed with distance greater than 1. Because it is perceived that the permutation of nearby genes from a chromosome like [1, 2, 3 with perm utation distance equal to 1 a y generate the chromosome [1, 2, 3 4  5  optimal ordering to induce th e network structure of Fig 4  T ABLE 3  B AYESIAN S CORES  G FUNCTION   VOGA VOEA VOEA_ DMO-Kendall VOEA_ DMO-Spearman VOEA_ DMO-g VOEA_ CM-f VOEA_ CM-g VOEA_ DMO-Kendall-rate VOEA_ DMO-Spearman-rate Alarm -48349 -48092 48042 48493 -48147 -48090 -48043 48054 48342 Synth 1 84823 84794 84792 84806 -84796 84792 84794 -84793 84797 Synth 2 87834 87833 -87833 87834 87833 -87833 -87833 87833 87833 Synth 3 86415 86415 86415 86416 86415 86415 86415 86415 86415 Synth 50-50 1227998 1228080 -1228036 1228126 1228048 -1228176 -1228176 1228176 1228176 Synth 50-100  1221791 1223841 -1221224 1220121 1219657 -1221224 -1220579 1218931  1221224  Synth 50-200 -597612 -588007 596169 596036 594386 -586418 -585811 578411  589208 Synth50-300 -644560 644078 635861  644058 -639799 -644058 -642906 636604 640950 T ABLE 4  N UMBER OF G ENERATIONS TO CONVERGENCE   VOGA VOEA VOEA_ DMOKendall VOEA_ DMO-Spearman VOEA_ DMO-g VOEA_ CM-f VOEA_ CM-g VOEA_ DMO-Kendallrate VOEA_ DMO-Spearmanrate Alarm 25 54 78 19 39 57 78 73 34 Synth 1 26 44 45 39 41 50 46 43 47 Synth 2 12 20 24 13 21 21 19 24 17 Synth 3 25 32 31 25 30 29 26 32 33 Synth 50-50 21 50 19 13 22 11 11 11 12 Synth 50100 20 12 11 20 12 11 12 38 11 Synth 50200 19 37 18 19 21 35 49 77 47 Synth50-300 22 15 20 12 21 11 20 26 14    


    Fig 4. Structure of a hypothetical Bayesian network VI C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK   This paper introduced a new mutation operator, named Distance-based Mutation Operator \(DMO\pose a Variable Ordering Evolutionary Algorithmé \(VOEA algorithm is based on ideas of VOGA to optimize the process of learning a Bayesian Network from data The results obtained in the performed empirical analysis showed that DMO is able to improve the variable orderings quality. In addition, in th ese datasets, DMO tended to help finding best Bayesian Net work structures \(better g score mainly in the bigger and more densely connected domains It can be seen as preliminary empirical evidence that more connected network structures might benefit of using a specific genetic operator as DMO which limits the permutation distance as far as the EA goes further in its search On the other hand, the use of crossover and DMO operators might be an interesting future line of investigation mainly to see whether such combination of operators might favor Bayesian network struct ures having many variables but not densely connected. In sparser BN structures, for instance, the permutation of genes of a particular chromosome may not influence the generation of a target ordering. Often, it might be b etter to combine them with a sequence of genes from another chromosome, using crossover operators. The BN named Synthetic 1 \(see Fig. 2 can help in this understanding It is possible to observe the structure of this netw ork presents several node sets whose orders are not relevant. For example, sequential set formed from çNode16é to çNode32é produces the same BN structure in any order. The same idea applies to nodes that are between "Node8" and "Node16". Therefore, for cases like these, the combination of sequence of genes coming from two chromosomes may produce more interesting orderings which are closer to the optimal ones We intend to proceed along these lines of investigation by performing a deeper study about variable ordering for the optimization of Bayesian networks learning. New specific operators for crossover and mutation will be developed, and in addition, different feature ranking measures will be studied to create new fitness functions which can be part of a multiobjective evolutionary algorithm A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The authors acknowledge the Brazilian research agencies CNPq and FAPESP for their financial support, as well as the support provided in conducting the experiments this research to NACAD \(Nucleo de Atendimento em Computacao de Alto Desempenho\ COPPE/UFRJ R EFERENCES   BACK, T. Evolutionary algorithms in theory and practice. Oxford University Press, 1996  BEINLINCH I. A. et al. The ALARM monitoring system: A case study with two probabilistic inference techniques for belief networks. In: EUROPEAN CONFERENCE ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE, London. Proceedings... Berlin: Spring Verlag, 1989. p. 247-256, 1989  CAMPOS, L. M.; HUETE, J. F. Approximating causal orderings for Bayesian networks using genetic algorithms and simulated annealing. In: Proceedings of the Eighth Internati onal Conference on Information Processing and Management of Uncertainty in Knowledge-based Systems \(IPMU'00 340, 2000  CHEN, X.; ANANTHA, G.; LIN, X Improving Bayesian Network Structure Learning with Mutual Information-based Node Ordering in the K2 Algorithm IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 20, n 5, p. 628-640, 2008  CHICKERING, D.M. Learning Bayesian networks is NP-Complete. In: FISHER, D.; LENZ, H \(Eds Learning from Data: artificial intelligence and statistics V. Springer-Verlag, p. 121-130, 1996  CONOVER, W.J. Practical Nonparametric Statistics third ed. John Wiley & Sons, 1999  COOPER G.; HERSKOVITZ, E A Bayesian method for the induction of probabilistic networks from data Machine Learning, v. 9, p. 309-347, 1992  DRUZDZEL M. J. SMILE: Structural Modeling Inference, and Learning Engine and GeNIe: A development environment for graphical decisiontheoretic models \(Intelligen t Systems Demonstration Proceedings of the Sixteenth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence \(AAAI-99\AAAI Press/The MIT Press, Menlo Park, CA, 1999. p. 902-903  FAULKNER, E. K2GA Heuristically Guided Evolution of Bayesian Net work Structures from Data Computational Intelligence and Data Mining, 2007 CIDM 2007. IEEE Symposium on March 1 2007-April 5, pp. 18 Ö 25, 2007  GOLDBERG, D. E. Genetic algorithms in search optimization, and machine learning.  Massachusetts Addison-Wesley, 1989  HECKERM AN, D. A tutori al on learning Bayesian networks. Local: Microsoft Research, Advanced Technology Division, 1995, Not as: Technical Report MSR-TR-95-06 


    HRUSCHKA JR; E. R.; EBECKEN, N. F. F. Variable Ordering for Bayesian Networks Learning from Data In: INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COMPUTATIONAL INTELLIGENCE FOR MODELLING, CONTROL AND AUTOMATION CIMCA'2003. Vienna: 2003  HRUSCHKA Jr., E. R.; EBECKEN, N.F.F. Towards efficient variables orderi ng for Bayesian Network Classifiers. Data and Knowledge Engineering, 2007  HSU, W. H; GUO H., PERRY B B and STILSON J A. A permutation genetic algorithm for variable ordering in learning bayesian networks from data. In GECCO ê02: Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference. San Francisco CA, USA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc, pp. 383 390, 2002  HSU, W. H. Genetic wrappers for feature selection in decision tree induction and variable ordering in Bayesian network struct ure learning. Information Sciences, v. 163, p. 103-122, 2004  LARRA—AGA P et al. Learning Bayesian network structure by searching for the best ordering with genetic algorithms. IEEE Trans. on Systems, Man and Cybernetics - Part A: Systems and Humans, v. 26, n. 4 p. 487-493, 1996  MARITZ. J.S. Distributi on-Free Statistical Methods Chapman & Hall. ISBN 0-412-15940-6. p. 217, 1981  ROMERO T LARRANAGA, P.; SIERRA, B Learning Bayesian Networks in the Space of Orderings with Estimation of Distribution Algorithms International Journal of Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence, v. 18, n. 4, p. 607-625, 2004  SANTOS, E. B.; HRUSCHKA JR., ER VOGA Variable ordering genetic algorithm for learning Bayesian classifiers. In: 6TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON HYBRID INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS - HIS2006, 2006, Auckland. Proceedings of The Sixth Interna tional conference on Hybrid Intelligent Systems \(HIS06 IEEE Press, 2006  SANTOS, E. B.; HRUSCHKA JR., ER; NICOLETTI M. C. Conditional independence based learning of Bayesian classifiers gui ded by a variable ordering genetic search. In: THE 2007 IEEE CONGRESS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION \(CEC 2007 2007, Singapura. Proceedings of The 2007 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Co mputation \(CEC 2007 Los Alamitos: IEEE Press, 2007. v. 1  HALL M  et al. The WEKA Data M i ning Software An Update; SIGKDD Explorations, Volume 11, Issue 1 2009 


overnight. The nurses briefly discuss each patient and Karen will fill out a pink note card on each of her female patients and a baby blue one for the boys. On Anna?s pink note card she records Anna?s name, age record number, room number, weights, and ?bronch obstructions, 02, nebs Q2, No surgery consult today social: mother today. This translates to: Anna?s breathing is labored. She should be kept on oxygen O2 The surgery consulting team was supposed to check if she needed to have her airways corrected but they canceled today. Anna?s mother will be in today, which offers Karen an opportunity to talk with her about Anna?s progress and when she is likely to go home. At the end of the meeting Karen and the rest of the day nurses slip small piles of notes cards into their uniform breast pockets and collect the management plans spread over the conference room table The rest of the day Karen uses the note cards to structure her work. When asked if she wants to join a small group of nurses for lunch she fetches her note cards and flips through them. ?Give me 20 minutes, I just have to give the small bronch girl \(Anna nebulizer treatment.? As the day progresses Karen updates her note cards. For instance, she notes the surgery consultant?s new appointment and the frustration Anna?s mother expressed about Anna?s long hospitalization. Karen also uses the note cards when filling out her flowsheets and other documents or to record Anna?s latest test results, changes in her medication and treatment plans Document Cycle Length of Shift Nurse Report Meeting Lab Work Progress Notes Orders Request Form Request Forms Social Work Orders Lab Work Flow Sheet  Figure 2. Nurse Document Cycle: Lengths of Shift In the late afternoon Karen gathers her patients management plans and updates them based on her note cards. There might be changes in medication, new procedures scheduled, test results, or treatment regiments. Just before 7PM, the night nurses start showing up and they gather in the nursing conference room with a clean pile of pink and blue note cards and newly updated managements plans. Karen drops her brain notes in a trash bin ? heading home The interns and senior residents enact comparable document cycles entrained to their respective shift schedules. Marc and the other interns generate a fresh set of brain notes by printing individual patient entries from the resident note system. Elisabeth and the other senior residents organize their senior notes and private brain notes the same way. Thus, the management plan the online resident notes, and senior notes get updated twice a day 4. 3 Oscillation: Broader &amp; Narrower Framing 


4. 3 Oscillation: Broader &amp; Narrower Framing Within each of the document cycles performed by Karen, Marc, Elisabeth and their colleagues on 10 East we find an oscillation between documents targeting broader and narrower configurations of participants times, places and content. Each of these four elements will be discussed in turn 4.3.1 Participants. Each document targets a particular audience and demarcates a group of participants in Anna?s and the other patients? care. As Karen, the nurse, creates her note cards based on the management plans, she moves from a communal Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 audience consisting of all the nurses in 10 East to an audience of one ? herself. Toward the end of her shift she reverses the movement by updating the communal document based on her private notes. Likewise, we find a shift in the participants demarcated by each document genre. As seen in Figure 3, the management plan outlines not only the primary nursing team involved in Anna?s care, but also the physicians primary care providers, community agencies, and consultants involved in the care, as well as important phone numbers of relevant family members or legal guardians. Karen?s private note cards, in contrast denote only the people relevant for Karen?s work that day. As illustrated in Figure 4, Karen includes Anna?s name and a reference to her mother and the surgery consult. Similarly, Marc alternates between the private brain note and the resident note system used by the four interns currently working on 10 East. When Marc moves from the communal resident note system to the discharge summary he further broadens the audience and participants targeted by the document. The discharge summary encompasses a larger and relatively undefined audience, including primary care doctors, nurses, secretaries, possible clinical researchers, and future care givers, in the case that Anna should ever be hospitalized again 4.3.2 Time &amp; Place. The temporal and spatial references change as we move through each document cycle. Karen?s note cards outline a relatively narrow temporal and spatial field for her activities within her 12-hour shift ? guiding her unfolding practices: ?is it time to go for lunch yet?? ?Do I have time to take one more patient before I meet with Anna?s mother Should I give Anna her nebulizer treatment while I care for Beatrice in the adjacent room?? When she updates the management plan she positions these in a significantly broader spatio-temporal field. The management plan includes references to not only current activities, such as medication but also activities pointing to the past and future, as in the case of a concise medical history, tests, discharge procedures and training, or outpatient care arrangements \(see Figure 3 temporal and spatial references as he uses his brain notes to update his resident note or when he writes Anna?s discharge summary based on the resident note Marc?s brain notes demarcate a temporal and spatial field for his work during a shift. The resident note system encompasses Anna?s stay on 10 East and her discharge summary narrates her care trajectory including care at 10 East and possibly recommended follow up care 4.3.3 Content. As the doctors and nurses write and rewrite documents to address different participants times and places they also oscillates between the type of content, i.e., facts, terminology, level of detail, and contextual clues appropriate for each audience. As Karen fills out her note cards during nurse report she 


crafts documents focusing on her immediate work practices and with minimal contextual clues. Karen?s note card on Anna \(see Figure 4 basic information Karen?s needs to administer Anna?s care. For instance, the card lists Anna?s record number and weight ? all central when Karen fills out a new flow sheet or check if Anna?s medication dose is appropriate. The rest of the note card constitutes a simple itinerary of activities Figure 3. Nurse?s management plan Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Karen does not need to specify these activities in any more detail. With seven year tenure on the ward she knows the nurses? work rhythm by heart. There is no need to specify Anna?s medical history, nor the times she requires oxygen or nebulizer treatments Karen relies on a non-verbal understanding and simply uses her notes as a scaffold to support her unfolding practices. The doctors use their brain notes in a similar fashion. Referring to his brain notes an ER intern explains No one else is going to understand what this means. This is very specific to what I do. Most people just jot notes to themselves -- you know: '5 year old, nasal foreign body, 10 days out of 21 days thick discharge, yellow green, treat with XYZ contact primary.' There is no time line in it; there is no thought process. I know what this means because I am here. But no one else will be able to make sense of it Anna Hauge #846 R8 2 Mos 5.6 kg Bronch obstructions O2 nebs Q2 No surgery consult today Social: mother today  Figure 4. Karen?s brain notes As indicated by the intern these private notes only work for their author. By the end of a shift the intern will update the resident note and add clues which will orient his fellow interns. Still these remain rather vague and rely heavily on the interns shared knowledge of the patients and the rhythm of work on the ward. In Karen?s case, she adds context clues as she edits the management plan. To motivate changes to Anna?s diet or personal needs she may add to the concise history? field of the management plan. She will only add changes that she deems important to her close community of nurses at 10 East. She writes when the surgery team meeting is scheduled, but she will only summarize her meeting with Anna?s mother if information relevant to the nurses? comes to light Towards the end of Anna?s hospitalization the same process takes place. The resident note system largely consists of a list of patient identifiers and activities. In the process of writing Anna?s discharge summary Marc strips away these local coordination tools and adds contextual information by positioning Anna?s care on 10 East as the culmination of a narrative starting with her past medical, family history, and diagnosis upon arrival in the hospital The rest of the discharge summary reviews what is considered relevant organ groups for Anna?s case or rather relevant sub-specialties involved in her care while at 10 East. In the process of writing the discharge summary Marc adds genre clues broadly accepted in the medical community, involving formatting, and terminology. Senior residents and attending doctors often scold interns for using acronyms and lingo specific to Kiltham Hospital in 


acronyms and lingo specific to Kiltham Hospital in their discharge summaries. Marc is literally making Anna?s history public and portable by turning the resident note list into a narrative with full sentences and specification of authorship. The document cycle is completed Documents oscillate between broader &amp narrower explication Participants Times Places Content Format Background knowledge Explicit Documents Br oa de r N ar ro we r N ar ro we r Br oa de r  Figure 5. Document cycles and their oscillations As summarized in Figure 5, we can depict the two document cycles as a continuous oscillation between a broader and narrower framing of Anna?s care. The daily cycles \(small cycles cycle covering Anna?s stay at 10 East. These oscillations involve changes to how broadly and narrowly the documents explicate participants, times places, and content. The cyclical integration mitigates the tension between a documents power to explicate its use and the background knowledge people bring to the document. The two triangles in Figure 5 signify the inverse relationship between documents and users. In the top of the cycle we find documents broadly explicating the relevant participants, times places, and content, thus facilitating understanding by people holding little background knowledge. As we move down in the cycle we see a shift towards documents leaning heavily on users? intimate knowledge of the work but which offers little guidance to the reader 4. 4 Dialog at Beginning &amp; End of Cycles At the beginning and end of each document cycle one finds interactions involving oral communication The dialogs engage the participants in reflections about their patient?s past and future care and stand out as central to the oscillation taking place within each cycle. Doctors and nurses place great emphasis on these meetings. When two interns were asked Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 what time of day they considered the most important they answered in unison: ?Sign-out.? Here, the doctors update their respective resident and senior notes. Each intern and senior resident will report on their patients to their on-call colleague, the doctor 


their patients to their on-call colleague, the doctor staying in the hospital over night. Their conversations focus on the patients that need the most attention during the night, difficult orders and other urgent tasks. It is a time to recount the work done in the course of the day and establish an itinerary for the night. Likewise, the other meetings engage the participants in dialog about individual cases and/or how to manage all patients under their collective care Tensions tend to escalate when a document cycle does not start or end with a reflective encounter Interns quarrel locally about the content of their resident notes during sign-out and attending doctors scold residents during rounds; but it is nothing compared to the anger doctors and nurses express when receiving a document from another setting countering their expectations and with no chance to clarify the problem Primary care doctors regularly complain that the discharge summaries that they receive from other health care settings lack information significant to them. One primary care doctor, Frida, with 18 years tenure grumbled one afternoon about a discharge summary, she had received that afternoon from a surgeon who had set her patient?s leg after a skiing accident a few days earlier. The teenager, Jacob showed up in her clinic with a swollen leg and a rash After examining Jacob, Frida explained to the ethnographer This is a crappy note [from the surgeon]. It?s no help to me. He [the surgeon] does not even tell me what antibiotic he gave Jacob [post operation] and how much. I have no way of telling whether the rash he presents with today is related to the antibiotics Frida calls the surgeon?s office to clarify the issue. The surgeon has left his clinic at 3:00pm. His discharge summary does not provide her enough information to help her diagnose the problem. A flow sheet filled out during the surgery most likely contains the information Frida needs. However, in the discharge papers the surgeon summarized his setting of the leg but does not describe the administration of antibiotic post surgery ? that to him is probably an inconsequential routine Dialog and reflective encounters play a central role in each document cycle. The dialog allows a heterogeneous groups of healthcare professionals with different responsibilities and routines to mend the relationship between the background knowledge people bring to Anna?s care and the degree to which documents explicate relevant participants, times places, content, and form. Such discussions also allow doctors and nurses to question patients? history and their care. By engaging with patients? histories people with different perspectives on care can suggest changes to the configuration of participants times, places and data relevant for the patient Document cycles lacking routine reflective encounters often leave little chance for the different constituencies to clarify their position and repair the relations between documents and their users 5. Discussion More than ten years ago Star and Ruhdeler [1 112] called for a practice-based approach to organizational infrastructure and knowledge flows one that does not depict system integration as a substrate: something upon which something else runs or operates \(e.g., railway system doctors and nurses integrate documents, whether electronic or paper-based, in the course of their daily work allows us to extend such an approach to system 


work allows us to extend such an approach to system integration We find that doctors and nurses continuously transform documents making them relevant to a particular set of participants, times and places. In doing so they adjust the relationship between how much documents explicate and the background knowledge required from the readers. Two such transformations stand out as central First, doctors and nurses engage in a number of cyclical transformations, within which they oscillate between documents addressing a broader and narrower audiences \(see figure 1 and 2 they manage to straddle the demands of local work practices and the needs to coordinate with other teams in other times and places Second, as summarized in figures 1 and 2 one finds a number of transformations between the cyclical organized documents \(e.g., nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes, senior notes, etc e.g., lab work, flow sheets, orders, etc nurses use their document cycles as the clearing station for a host of document systems. The cyclical organized documents allow people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices. At the same time they draw from their cyclical documents to produce other non-cyclical documents. For instance, Marc and other doctors integrate test results from the laboratory Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 system into their brain notes and later the residence note system. Likewise, they write orders and other request information based on their brain notes The existing literature allows us to capture only parts of these cyclical transformations. Latour and Woolgar [12] and Knorr-Cetina [22] work describes the individual transformations well. The concept of communicative genres [6] offers insights to the individual documents and how they might be linked into sequentially organized genre systems. Likewise we could conceive of the documents in the present case as boundary objects bridging the relations among different communities [3 The cyclical patterns reported here, however present an opportunity to integrate these related practice-based research streams. The concept of communicative genres, for instance, supplements descriptions of document transformation in document cycles. Furthermore, the findings suggest the existence of multiple document types playing different roles in knowledge flows. Boundary objects may not stand alone in knowledge sharing across communities. Rather, they seem to interact with a host of other documents. For instance, one could argue that lab results serve as a boundary object for many groups caring for Anne. As a repository each group can draw from and contribute to the lab result system. Yet, this boundary object does not stand alone. Only when we see the lab result system in relation to the use of nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes and senior notes do we understand the intricate knowledge flow. The boundary object is but on cog in a larger document machinery Reflection and dialog play central parts in the cyclical integration of documents. Confirming findings in the boundary object literature, conflicts are prone to surface when people from different professions, sub-specialties, or local organizational cultures negotiate their often diverging approaches to patient care [3, 4, 32].  Reflective encounters allow 


patient care [3, 4, 32].  Reflective encounters allow collaborators to recalibrate the reciprocal relationship between documents and organizational members \(i.e document explicates and background knowledge the same time these interactions serve as a staging ground for questions that may broaden or narrow the collective work practices. Doctors and nurses may question whether they need more information about the patient?s medical history or consider alternative treatment plans. The meetings secure an ongoing reflection on the appropriate course of Anna?s care Much like a hermeneutic process, doctors and nurses engage with parts of patients? care ? only to return to a broader picture to interpret the integration of its parts. The movement of their understanding and writing, then, is a constant moving from the whole to its parts and back to the whole [9, 33 Finally, the document cycles offers a window into the institutional structure of the hospital and the temporal and spatial organization of work. We notice how the cycles support departmental divisions and the temporal structure of work in the institution Without these document cycles it would be impossible to maintain the high level of complexity where multiple professions and subdisciplines work together, with somebody present to knowledgably care for Anna 6. Conclusion &amp; Implications The study identifies a cyclical pattern to the knowledge flow in a heterogeneous information systems environment. Drawing on data from the healthcare industry we describe how doctors and nurses organize a host of document systems around a central cyclical pattern involving an oscillation between addressing a broader and narrower configuration of participants, times, places, and content. Numerous documents feed to and from the cyclically organized documents. The constant transformation from one document to the next allows organizational members to manage the reciprocal relationship between how much documents explicate their use and how much background knowledge readers need to bring to the document. This relationship is brittle and despite the many transformations among documents it often breaks down. The research suggests that organizational members build opportunities for dialog into the document cycles in an effort to patch any possible breaks in knowledge sharing The present research is not without limits. It relies on a single in-depth ethnographic study, thereby subjecting it to a set of well-known limitations, most notably restricted empirical generalizability. Despite the limitations, the research has implications for research and practice. First, to fully take advantage of our cyclical notion of documents and integrate the existing practice-based theories require more theoretical and empirical work. For instance, what cyclical patterns do we find beyond the healthcare industry? Second, future research will have to explore how efforts to standardize medical information and facilitate retrieval can coexist with cyclical documenting practices In regard to practice, system design may gain from supporting a host of document types and allow people to transform one document into another document characterized by different configurations of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 participants, times, places, content, and form. Across documents the content may be deceivingly alike. Yet one must keep in mind that each document manages 


an intricate reciprocal relationship between how much the document explicate and the background knowledge people bring to its use Finally, system designers may distinguish circular integration of documents and documents feeding to and from the cycles. People use their central cycles to manage many other document systems. The cycle allows people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices 7. References 1] S. L. Star and K. Ruhdeler, "Steps toward an ecology infrastructure: Design and access for large information spaces," ISR, vol. 7, pp. 111 - 134, 1996 2] L. T. Kohn, J. M. Corrigan, and M. S. Donaldson, "To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, 1999 3] P. R. Carlile, "A Pragmatic View of Knowledge and Boundaries: Boundary Objects in New Product Development," Org. Science, vol. 13, pp. 442-455, 2002 4] N. Levina and E. Vaast, "The emergence of boundary spanning competence in practice: Implications for implementation and use of information systems," MIS Quarterly, vol. 29, pp. 335-363, 2005 5] S. L. Star and J. R. Griesemer, "Institutional Ecology Translations' and Boundary Objects," Social Studies of Science, vol. 19, pp. 387-420, 1989 6] C. Bazerman, "System of genres and the enactment of social intentions," in Genre and the New Rhetoric, A Freedman and P. Medway, Eds. London: Taylor &amp; Francis 1995, pp. 79-104 7] J. Yates &amp; W. Orlikowski, "Genre Systems: Structuring Interaction through Communicative Norms," Journal of Business Communication, vol. 39, pp. 13-35, 2002 8] C. U. Ciborra and R. Andreu, "Sharing Knowledge across Boundaries," Journal of Information Technology vol. 16, pp. 73-81, 2001 9] R. Hansen and J. Rennecker, "Collective Hermeneutics in a Systems Development Process," Sprouts: Working Papers on Information Systems, vol. 6 pp http://sprouts.aisnet.org/6-6, 2006 10] R. J. Boland, R. V. Tenkasi, and D. Te'eni, "Designing Information Technology to Support Distributed Cognition Organization Science, vol. 5, pp. 456-475, 1994 11] G. DeSanctis &amp; M. Poole, "Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory," Org. Science, vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 12] B. Latour and S. Woolgar, Laboratory Life: The construction of scientific Facts. Princeton: Princenton University Press, 1986 13] J. G. March, "How decisions happen in organizations Human-Computer Interaction, vol. 6, pp. 95-117, 1991 14] R. Harper, Inside the IMF: An ethnography of documents, technology, and organizational action. San Diego: Academic Press, 1998 15] M. S. Feldman, Order without design: Information production and policy making. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1989 16] K. Weick, Sense making in organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1995 17] J. S. Brown and P. Duguid, "Borderline Issues Human-Computer Interaction, vol. 9, pp. 3-36, 1994 18] D. E. Smith, Institutional Ethnography: A sociology for people. Oxford: AltaMira Press, 2005 19] C  sterlund, "Documents in Place: Demarcating Places for Collaboration in Healthcare Settings.," CSCW vol. 17, pp. 195-225, 2008 20] C  sterlund, "Genre Combinations: A Window into Dynamic Communication Practices.," Journal of Management of Information Systems \(JMIS 81-108, 2007 21] N. M. Dixon, Common knowledge : how companies 


21] N. M. Dixon, Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know. Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22] K. Knorr Cetina, The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23] R. J. J. Boland, "An Ecology of Distributed Practice Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24] M. Agar, Speaking of Ethnography. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25] J. Van Maanen, "The Fact of Fiction in Organizational Ethnography," ASQ, vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26] M. B. Miles and A. M. Huberman, Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27] S. R. Barley, "Technology as an Occasion for Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments," ASQ, vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28] M. L. Markus, "Toward a Theory of Knowledge Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29] W. J. Orlikowski, "Knowing in practice:  Enacting a collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science, vol. 13, pp. 249?273, 2002 30] C  sterlund and P. Carlile, "Relations in Practice Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations," The Information Society, vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31] L. A. Suchman, Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication. Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 32] M. S. Ackerman and C. Halverson, "Organizational Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, &amp; Trajectories CSCW, vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33] R. J. Boland, "Information System Use as a hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions, H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207ñ216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intíl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intíl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





