A Control p arameter Data Collecting and Processing System of Grain Drying i n a Deep Fixed Bed   Danyang Wang 1 Chenghua Li 2 Jiangning Xu 3 Benhua Zhang 1 Yuanjuan Gong 1  1. College of Engineering, Shenyang Agricultural University, Shenyang 110161, China 2. College of Mechanical Engineering, Shenyang Ligong University, Shenyang 110161, China 3. College of Information and Electrical Engineering, Shenyang Agricultural University 
Shenyang, 110161, China Email  lch@syau.edu.cn,lch@mail.sylu.edu.cn   Abstract   Accurate data acquisition and processing is important to analyze the experimental results and research the theories of grain drying. Experiments of grain drying in a deep fixed bed usually have characteristics o f long period, difficult dynamic signal acquisition, large amount of experimental data and cockamamie data processing, etc. Aiming at the disadvantages of 
tiresome procedure, low efficiency and big error which exist in the traditional manual record and dat a processing mode for test process, an automatic multi parameters collecting and processing system for the experiments of grain drying in a deep fixed bed is developed. The system mainly consists of two parts testing software  of master computer  hardware and software of slave computer. A microcontroller is used as the central control unit of the slave computer. Both design of the hardware interface circuit and the data acquisition program have been accomplished. Analog 
signals of sensors are collected and sent to the master computer by serial communication mode. Software of data processing and analysis used for the master computer operation is developed by using software development tool Excel and VBA on the base of software engineering method, theories of grain drying and experimental design method. The software can automatically analyze and process the regulate control parameters of drying air temperature drying air velocity, humidity, paddy thickness and intermittent drying time  which were all collected and sent by the slave computer system ,and then it can give regression 
equations and graphics of influence laws of each regulate control parameter on paddy rice dried quality\(additional crack percentage, drying homogeneous degree and drying time, etc automatically by applying the function modules o f regression analysis, principal component analysis  PCA\ and parameterization drawing, etc. A series of paddy drying experiments including single factor experiments and quadratic orthogonal rotary combination experiments in a deep fixed bed were conducted  with the developed system. The results showed that the system works stably and reliably by compared with the traditional manual record, while 
labor intensity and interference on data processing of manual operation cloud be decreased during the drying experimental study, and data analysis precision and reliability of experiments also be improved   Keywords  Grain drying  D ata acquisition and processing  system S erial communication R egression analysis   1  Introduction   China is a big agricultural country with an nual average grain yield of 4.5\32710 
11  Kg  however  the overall level of its equipment technology for grain drying is very relatively low. Large sized grain drying center with regional features has not formed and the integrated ratio of mechanically drying is  less than 3 by now. Moreover, the annual grain post harvest loss caused by incapability of timely drying is about 5\32710 9 Kg, so the continuous technical improvement and enhancement for grain drying equipment has become 
an exigent request of agricultural ec onomy development \(Wang Danyang  et al., 2008   Compared  with others grain drying methods, hot air dying which has the merits of higher heat efficiency energy saving and lower cost, has been widely applied in practical production  Wang Danyang 2005 For  general drying equipment drying air temperature 


humility and air velocity and other parameters respectively at drying chamber inlet and outlet all have an important effect on drying efficiency and quality  Zheng Xianzhe  et al., 2001 Zhang Yonglin  et al., 2007 Therefore, the research on the influence laws of each factor on drying efficiency and quality is so particularly important that it will be reasonable to control these parameters in practical production C hen  Jianping  et al., 2009  Chen Kunjie  et al., 2001 Wang Feng  et al 2008 As grain drying is a process of unsteady heat and mass transfer, all correlated parameter values of each state point change greatly during the drying process, which has put forward higher demand to the method for parameter monitoring and controlli ng. The traditional method for parameter monitoring and controlling is manual record and artificial process, the method of which has some shortcomings, including low precision, low safety, low efficiency, tiresome procedure, and big error etc. while comput er software and hardware technique of high speed development provide a doable method for automatic monitoring of experimental parameters ,and for experimental data automatic collection, display and automatic saving  Chen Yuanyuan  et al., 2008  Fu Yu et al 2006  Li Changyou  et al., 2002 In this work, a system with double host of master computer and slave computer was adopted to realize the automatic collection and process of each important working parameter during the drying process, and combined with sp ecific paddy drying experiments on a deep fixed bed  the system reliability and its function will be wholly verified   2. Hot air drying system and control parameter   Drying experiments were conducted using a hot air drying type  system. The system basicall y consists of air compressor, rotameter, heater, drying chamber and MCU  system, the structure of it as shown in fig.1 The  airflow with  stable pressure which  was  afford by the air compressor flows through the control valve and the rotameter, and then it is  transported to the drying chamber to dry the inside materials af ter it is heated by the heater  Some  test holes in the drying chamber are used for measuring temperature, humidity and other parameter values of each grain layer. In each drying experiment, m oisture contents of each test point in each grain layer will be obtained through weight measurement of each test point by a special sampler every certain interval until all the moisture contents of test points come up to the safe storage standard, that is the end of drying experiment  The main parameters which need to be measured and monitored by the hot air drying system working include the following five parts:\(1\ drying air temperature and humidity at drying chamber inlet and outlet respectively, \(2\ dry ing air temperature and humidity at each test point in every grain layer, \(3 drying air velocity at each test point in every grain layer, \(4\ weight of each test point in each grain layer 5\ supply pressure of air compressor \(Wang Danyang 2005   1. d rying chamber 2. rotary separater 3. feed inlet 4 sensors 5. material discharge 6. electronic digital temperature measurer 7 MC U  system 8. master computer 9. heater 10. control valve 11. exhaust pipe for stable pressure 12. air compressor 13. pressure ga uge 14. rotameter  Figure 1  Structure of drying test bed   3. Data collecting and processing system design for hot air drying  3.1 Hardware design for data collecting and processing system   According to the requirement of grain drying  experiment, a data ac quisition and processing system was designed, the hardware composition as shown in fig.2 Microprocessor is as core processing unit of the system As the information is not too large with  the system working, and the information processing speed required fo r the system is low relatively, AT89C52 was chosen as core microcontroller for the system based on the comparative analysis of different microcontrollers\222 performance, price and control functions. Hardware circuit design mainly includes signal collection m odule and communication module etc  DS18B20 1 wire digital temperature sensor was  selected for the system. Its temperature measuring  


 Figure 2  Hardware framework of the system  range  is  55 125 The measuring accuracy can reach \2610.5  in the range 10 85 A/D conversion accuracy is 9 12bit and the measurement resolution can reach 0.0625 Temperature signals was measured and output in a mode of 16 bit digital signal extended from symbol  Humidity signal was measured by using table lookup calculation method of wet and dry ball temperature measurement, and wind speed signal was measured based on the calculation of impeller rotational speed measured by hall element  Connection circuit of se nsors and AT89C52 as shown in  fig.3   Figure 3  Hardware interface circuit of microcontroller and sensors \(U5 is hall element  Communication  between AT89C52 microcontroller and PC is realized by the RXD pin \(P3.0, the receiver for serial data\ and the TXD  pin \(P3.1, the sender for serial data transmitter\. AT89C52 microcontroller can send and receive data at the same time becau se it has two SBUF buffers which can send and receive data independently and physically. However as the signal at the serial commun ication interface of microcontroller is TTL level 0 5V while the signal at the serial communication interface of master computer is RS 232C level 12  12V\, so level conversion is necessary for communication before the related connection.MAX232 of RS 23 2 was selected as level conversion chip for the system, the connection circuit of level conversion as shown in fig.4   Figure 4  Connection circuit of level conversion  OCMJ4\32712B which is a LCD Display module of lattice with 18 pins was selected for LCD Di splay. And it can shows four lines each with twelve Chinese characters or characters. The connection circuit of OCMJ4\32712B and AT89C52 as shown in fig.5   Figure 5  Connection circuit of OCMJ4\32712B and AT89C52   3.2. Software design for data collecting  and p rocessing system   3.2.1  Software design for signal acquisition and signal sending of slave computer  The software of slave computer is written in C language, the main submodules  of which include as followings 1\ data collection module used in Parameter s real time measurement of materials being dried 2\ Data processing module used in filtering the data collected by sensors to obtain accurate data 3\ communication 


module used in timed sending the data collected and receiving the parameters from PC in inte rrupt mode  The MCU  control system composed of main program timed  interrupt service routine, receiving interrupt service routine and the three sub modules mentioned above. Microcomputer, timer, interrupt and initialization of serial communication were con cerned firstly in the main program. By the Program executing, the system is initialized firstly and then comes into a circulatory state The main program flow as shown in fig.6. Data collection and display of drying air temperature humidity and velocity r espectively are all completed based on the interrupt program, and the program flow of temperature data acquisition as shown in fig.7   Figure 6  Startup flow of main program   Figure 7  Program flow of temperature data acquisition module  3.2.2 Software d esign for data acquisition and data processing of master computer  The hardware of data acquisition and processing system for the drying test bed was composed of PC and AT89C52 \(slave computer\, and software  was developed with Excel and VBA on the Windows operation platform. RS 232 data communication line was used to realize the communication between the master computer and the slave computer, by which all the parameters collected real timely by the slave computer could be sent to the master computer. For t he data processing software of the master computer, Serial communication is realized based on the MS Comm communication control provided by visual basic 6.0. The data acquisition software adopts event driven data communication mode and a timer to open timed communication ports then the data uploaded from the slave computer could be received and transmission errors of communication could be captured. Then data uploaded from the slave computer can be checked based on serial communication protocol, and from w hich each related parameter will be extracted. The final functions mainly include as followings:\(1\ Dynamic display of data collected,\(2\ Pretreatment of experimental data \(such as error control of data\, \(3\ Calculation of original data according to exper iment requirement, \(4\ special program for diagram drawing according to the calculation results, \(5\ index analysis for single factor experiments and regression analysis for multifactor experiments  Automatic, fast and accurate processing of experiment data can be realized based on the software platform, which provide technical support for the research of grain drying. The operation interface of the system developed as shown in fig.8   Figure 8  Main operation menu of the system  


4 Experiments and result a nalysis  Experiments of paddy drying in the deep fixed bed were conducted by using the system developed and functions and reliability of the system were validated in fieldwork. According to the requirement of technology development for paddy rice drying, d rying air velocity drying air temperature and paddy thickness were selected as factors, while additional crack percentage drying homogeneous degree total average drying rate and drying time were selected as experiment indexes The experiment process was described  in details by Wang et al. \(2005\. Besides 25 single factor experiment s  orthogonal  rotary experimental design method was used in multifactor experiment, and then the total number of the experiment is 48  In order to improve the experimental preci sion and make the experimental results analysis more deeply and conveniently, all the signal data of each experiment must be processed as following four aspects  1 calculation on the transforming of real time weight  of each test point in every grain lay er for real time moisture content\(d.b\ and average drying rate 2 drawing based on the real time temperature data of each test point \(3\ drawing based on the real time drying air velocity data at each test point  4 According to the results of quadratic or thogonal experiment the optimal technological condition was determined with  regression analysis and variance analysis method Draw relevant analysis chart  was drawn  and principal component analysis \(PCA  was conducted. Thus  there were 5175 times numerical  calculation on transforming, and 690 graph drawings  needed  All of this is a very heavy work, while the soft system developed makes it easy Analysis result chart \(partly shown f  a single drying index which was generated by the system as shown in fig.9   Figure 9  Curve automatic generated by  the system partly  Application results of the data collecting and processing system developed for hot air drying show that the system works stably and reliably, and data from different sensors could be collected a nd uploaded real timely according to the requirement of experiment, so labor intensity and interference on data processing of manual operation cloud be decreased during the drying experimental study. Furthermore, coherence and stability of experiment proce ss are effectively guaranteed, drying efficiency is improved. Manual method for data processing and the software developed for data processing were both used to process and analysis the original experiment data collected separately. By comparative analysis  with the two methods based on the same group experiment data, it is clear that the time consumption of the manual calculation and graphics processing \(in a skilled case at least needs 2 minutes and 20 minutes respectively, so the whole time of manual met hod for data processing based on all the 48 experiments at least need about 22\32748=1056 minutes, which is furthermore added to the time for drawing and regression analysis based on each drying index, at least 2.5 working days must be needed for the work. Mo reover, influence of manual operation on processing results was hard to be excluded in lots of duplicate work. On the contrary, by using the data collecting and processing system developed  the time consumption for single factor experiment only needs 75 sec onds, for Multi factor experiment only needs 240 seconds. Reliability and productivity of data processing in the test bed have both improved; moreover, the system provides a powerful tool for research on materials drying law   5. Conclusions  In accordance  with the backward situation of automatic measurement and control of grain drying equipment in our country, the purpose of this study was to improve the drying parameters acquisition precision and operation environment of grain drying processing The contr ol parameter acquisition and processing system developed for the grain drying test bed was designed and verified based on the single factor experiment and multifactor experiment of paddy drying on a deep fixed test bed. The results indicated that the contr ol parameter acquisition and processing system developed for the grain drying test bed could achieve all the designed functions and achieve the desired application results, but further improvement on the accuracy and real time of grain moisture content mea surement is needed. Overall, the data collecting and processing system designed has a  good application 


value and guiding significance for grain drying procedure   6 References   1 J.P C hen H. Z Z hang S.J O uyang, et al  223 Design and implementation of solar agricultural byproduct intelligent drying system 224  Computer Engineering and Design  2009,30\(10\:2593 2596 in Chinese    K.J Chen  J. L Li  M.Y Yang  et al  223 Drying Experiments of Paddy in a Deep Fixed bed 224, T ransactio ns of the Chinese Society of Agricultural Machinery 2001, 32\(2\:58 61 in Chinese    Y. Y Chen  223 Discussing on the Control System on the Flatbed Type of Counter Flow Grain Drier 224  Agricultural Equipment & Technology 2008  34\(1\1518 in Chinese    Y  Fu C.Y Song Z.F Zhou 223 T emperature control system design of grain drying equipment based on microcontroller 224  Machinery for Cereals Oil and Food Processing   2006  8\7475 in Chinese    C.Y Li Y.M Cao 223 Hardware Design for the Control System of  Recirculating Grain Dryer 224  Transactions of the Chinese Society of Agricultural Machinery 2002, 33\(6\:86 88\(in Chinese    D.Y Wang  223 Study On Technology Parameters for Paddy Rice Drying in a Deep Fixed bed 224  Shenyang Agricultural University 2005 in C hinese    D.Y Wang C.H Li Y.F Yang, et al 223 Experiment Study on Influence of Drying Parameters on Drying Duration of Paddy Rice in a Deep Fixed bed 224  Journal of Shenyang Agricultural University  2008, 39\(2\:213 217\(in Chinese    F Wang M Dong Y.B Jin  223 An Effective and Low Cost Dryer Equipment of Farming based on SCM 224  Microcomputer Information 2008 24 8\:107 108,146 in Chinese    Y.L Zhang  W.P Wang  C. Z Zheng  et al  223 Intelligent real time on line measuring system for moisture content  during grain drying 224  Transactions of the Chinese Society of Agricultural Engineering 2007  23\(9\:137 140 in Chinese    X.Z. Zheng X.L Zhou J.Q Xia 223 The study on drying condition influcing paddy mill quality 224  Journal of Northeast Agricultural U niversity 2001, 32\(1\:48 52 in Chinese  


only represent a moderate risk. Better still SR-5 which is a high priority requirement, is a low risk And to make a further case against SR-4 and SR-7 which were identified as low priority requirements in the AHP analysis, these two requirements also represent the two greatest risks in the requirements set Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5  Figure 3. Cost-value diagram of requirements Comparison of Threat Levels 84 60 56 112 27 150 240 24 5 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R6 R7 R8 R9 Requirement V al ue  Figure 4. Comparative threat levels per requirement That outcome changes our picture somewhat, in the sense that decision makers might want to revisit or perhaps re-prioritize based on potential risk. This is particularly true in the case of SR-6. It might also suggest that the status of SR-1, which is approaching high-risk status, be revisited. At the same time, it is easy to justify the priority of SR-2, SR-3 and SR-5 based on their relative threat index. Finally, it is also easy to consider dropping SR-4 and SR-7 out of the set if resource constraints arise This modified approach has not yet been applied in our student case studies. One of the challenges we face is that students have an expectation for crisp results. They are not used to the idea that when they are doing research case studies, the results may be unpredictable. In our view, this makes these kinds of case studies more interesting and more challenging for the students, as well as helping our research  7. Conclusions  The aim of this article was to introduce the potential additional value of threat modeling/ risk understanding to the requirements prioritization process. The information that these additional analysis processes provide permits decision makers Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 to undertake the construction process in such a way that the most critical functional and security requirements are always included in the final build Exposing students to these processes can help them understand the sophisticated decisions that must be made in real development settings Moreover, that information can then be used by decision makers to make intelligent decisions about the amount of investment that they wish to make in their software. That will allow them to maximize 


their software. That will allow them to maximize their investment and thereby ensure both their profitability the as well as the overall safety and security of their organization. That will allow every member of the organization to be confident that their software assets provide the greatest value for the investment as well as the greatest security possible From the educational perspective, if we introduce students to sophisticated decision making processes in the real world, they will be better equipped to make such decisions when the time comes  8. References  1] I. Alexander, ?Misuse cases: Use cases with hostile intent,? IEEE Software, vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 58-66, 2003  2] T. Benzel, ?Integrating security requirements and software development standards,? in Proc. 12th National Computer Security Conf. Fort Meade, MD: National Computer Security Center, 1989, pp. 435-458  3] B. Boehm and V. Basili, ?Software defect reduction Top 10 list,? IEEE Computer, vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 135-137 Jan. 2001  4] J. Bailey, A. Drommi, J. Ingalsbe, N. Mead, and D Shoemaker, ?Models for Assessing the Cost and Value of Software Assurance,? Build Security In https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/daisy/bsi/articles knowledge/business/684.html  5] J.J. Carr, ?Requirements engineering and management The key to designing quality complex systems,? The TQM Magazine, vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 400-407, 2000  6] R.A. Clark, Breakpoint. New York: G.P Putnam and Sons, 2007  7] R.A. Clark and H.A. Schmidt, ?A national strategy to secure cyberspace,? The President?s Critical Infrastructure Protection Board, Washington, DC, 2002  8] E. Colbert and D. Yu, ?Costing Secure Systems Workshop Report,? 21st Annual Forum on CoCoMo and Software Cost Modeling, University of Southern California, Center for Software Engineering, 2006  9] R. de Landtsheer and A. van Lamsweerde, ?Reasoning about confidentiality at requirements engineering time.? in Proc. 10th European Software Engineering Conf. held jointly with 13th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering. New York, NY ACM, 2005, pp. 41-49  10] K. Garg and V. Varma, ?Security: Bridging the academia-industry gap using a case study,? in XIII Asia Pacific Software Engineering Conf. Proc. New York, NY IEEE Computer Society Press, 2006, pp. 485-492  11] P. Giorgini, H. Mouratidis, and N. Zannone Modeling Security and Trust with Secure Tropos Integrating Security and Software Engineering: Advances and Future Visions. Hershey, PA: IGI Global, 2007, pp 160-189  12] H. Hecht, and M. Hecht, ?How reliable are requirements for reliable software?? Software Tech News vol. 3, no. 4, 2000. Retrieved May 31, 2007 from http://www.softwaretechnews.com  13] S. Honiden, Y. Tahara, N. Yoshioka, K. Taguchi, and 


13] S. Honiden, Y. Tahara, N. Yoshioka, K. Taguchi, and H. Washizaki, ?Top SE: Educating superarchitects who can apply software engineering tools to practical development in Japan,? in Proc. 29th Int. Conf. on Software Engineering ICSE'07 pp. 708-718  14] M. Howard and D. LeBlanc, Writing Secure Code with CD-ROM  15] J. Karlsson, ?Software Requirements Prioritizing,? in Proc. Second Int. Conf. on Requirements Engineering ICRE'96 Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society, 1996, pp. 110?116  16] J. Karlsson, and K. Ryan, ?A Cost-Value Approach for Prioritizing Requirements,? IEEE Software vol. 14, no. 5 Sept./Oct. 1997, pp. 67-74  17] S. Lauesen and O. Vinter, ?Preventing requirement defects: An experiment in process improvement Requirements Engineering, Volume 6, Number 1 February, 2001, pp. 37-50  18] T. McGibbon, ?A business case for software process improvement revised,? DoD Data Analysis Center for Software \(DACS  19] N.R. Mead, ?Requirements Engineering for Survivable Systems,? Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, CMU/SEI-2003-TN-013, 2003 http://www.sei.cmu.edu/publications/documents/03.reports 03tn013.html  20] N.R. Mead and T. R. Stehney, II, ?Security quality requirements engineering \(SQUARE presented at the meeting of the Software Engineering for Secure Systems \(SESS05 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Requirements for High Assurance Systems, St. Louis, MO 2005  21] N.R. Mead and E.D. Hough, ?Security requirements engineering for software systems: Case studies in support of software engineering education,? in Proc. 19th Conf Software Engineering Education and Training. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2006, pp 149-158  22] S. Myagmar, A.J. Lee, and W. Yurcik, ?Threat Modeling as a Basis for Security Requirements Symposium on Requirements Engineering for Information Security \(SREIS http://www.projects.ncassr.org/multicast/papers/sreis05.pdf  23] National Infrastructure Advisory Council \(NIAC National strategy to secure cyberspace,? U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC, 2003  24] M. Newman, ?Software errors cost U.S. economy 59.5 billion annually,? National Inst. of Standards and Technology \(NIST  25] B. Palyagar, ?Measuring and influencing requirements engineering process quality,? in Proc. AWRE 04, 9th Australian Workshop on Requirements Engineering, 2004 Retrieved May 31, 2007 from http://awre2004.cis.unisa.edu.au  26] B. Palyagar, ?A framework for validating process improvements in requirements engineering, in RE 04-IEEE 


improvements in requirements engineering, in RE 04-IEEE Joint International, 2004, pp. 33-36  27] S. T. Redwine \(Ed the common body of knowledge to produce, acquire and sustain secure software, version 1.1.? U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC, 2006  28] T.L. Saaty, The Analytic Hierarchy Process. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1980  29] P. Saitta, B. Larcom, and M. Eddington, ?Trike v.1 Methodology Document [Draft],? 2005  30] D. Shoemaker, N.R. Mead, A. Drommi, J. Bailey, and J. Ingalsbe, ?SWABOK?s fit to common curricular standard,? in Proc. 20th Conf. on Software Engineering Education and Training. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press, 2007  31] G. Sindre and A. Opdahl, ?Eliciting security requirements by misuse cases,? in Proc. TOOLS Pacific 2000. Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Computer Society Press 2000, pp. 120-130  32] K. Soo Hoo, A.W. Sudbury, and A.R. Jaquith Tangible ROI through Secure Software Engineering Secure Business Quarterly vol. 1, no. 2, Fourth Quarter 2001 http://www.sbq.com/sbq/rosi/sbq_rosi_software_engineerin g.pdf  33] F. Swiderski, and W. Snyder, Threat Modeling Microsoft Press, 2004  34] S. Butler, ?Security Attribute Evaluation Method: A Cost-Benefit Approach,? in Proc. 24th Int. Conf. on Software Engineering. Orlando, FL, May 19-25, 2002. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2002, pp. 232-240  35] S.L. Cornford, M.S. Feather, and K.A. Hicks, DDP A Tool for Life-Cycle Risk Management, 2004 http://ddptool.jpl.nasa.gov/docs/f344d-slc.pdf  36] Y.Y. Haimes, Risk Modeling, Assessment, and Management, 2nd ed. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons Inc., 2004  37] H.F.Lipson, N.R. Mead, and A.P. Moore, ?A RiskManagement Approach to the Design of Survivable COTSBased Systems,? 2001 http://www.cert.org/research/isw/isw2001/papers/Lipson29-08-a.pdf  38] U.S. General Accounting Office. ?Information Security Risk Assessment: Practices of Leading Organizations, A Supplement to GAO?s May 1998 Executive Guide on Information Security Management U.S. General Accounting Office, Washington, DC., 1999  39] G. Stoneburner, A. Goguen, and A. Feringa, ?Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Systems National Institute of Standards and Technology Gaithersburg, MD, Special Publication 800-30, 2002 http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-30/sp80030.pdf  40] N.R. Mead, ?Survivable Systems Analysis Method 2002. http://www.cert.org/archive/html/analysismethod.html  41] National Security Agency. ?INFOSEC Assessment 


Methodology,? 2004. http://www.iatrp.com/iam.cfm  42] N.R. Mead, E. Hough, and T. Stehney, ?Security Quality Requirements Engineering \(SQUARE Methodology,? Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, CMU/SEI-2005-TR009, ADA452453, 2005 http://www.sei.cmu.edu/publications/documents/05.reports 05tr009.html  43] J. Allen, S. Barnum, R. Ellison, G. McGraw, and N.R Mead, Software Security Engineering: A Guide for Project Managers. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Addison-Wesley ISBN -13:978-0-321-50917-8, 2008  44] N.R. Mead, ?Requirements Prioritization Case Study Using AHP,? Build Security In, September 2006 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 https://buildsecurityin.us-cert.gov/daisy/bsi/articles/bestpractices/requirements/534-BSI.html  45] B.W. Boehm, Software risk management. Piscataway NJ: IEEE Press, 1989 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 pre></body></html 


representation Plan schemas for resource-constrained planning and scheduling. The MACRO field agents use plan schemas \(also called template plans or skeletal plans  been used in other situations where complete planning was too time consuming for appropriate responses. MACRO's plan schemas have been enhanced with scheduling information, such as in [28], and generated through partial order planning techniques, like [29]. The combination of MACRO server-based agents using the SA-POP planning/scheduling service with generated schemas used by MACRO field agents provides a uniquely flexible solution for autonomy in sensor webs with a server cluster connected to DRE field systems 6. CONCLUDING REMARKS The SEAMONSTER project exhibits distributed deployment infrastructure challenges common to computationally constrained field environments in adaptive sensor webs, including standardized execution of low-level hardware-dependent actions and on-going data tasks, automated provisioning of agents for heterogeneous field hardware, and minimizing deployment infrastructure overhead in general. This paper presents the results of applying the MACRO platform with extensions designed to address these deployment challenges in SEAMONSTER. In particular, the Action/Effector framework addressed key deployment challenges as follows 9  Separate concerns by creating a unified mechanism for deploying and executing brief, low-level actions  Substantially reduce footprint of individual actions versus implementation as a component  Improve deployment latency by two orders of magnitude over a similar component implementation The remainder of this section summarizes lessons learned from applying MACRO to SEAMONSTER and outlines our future work optimizing MACRO's QoS-enabled component middleware infrastructure Lessons Learned The lessons learned from our extensions to the MACRO distributed deployment infrastructure include  Feasible integration of non-component entities. The Effector/Action framework has demonstrated the feasibility of integrating non-component entities into component assemblies where footprint, latency, or lifetime rules out the use of a full component  Unitary Effector may limit framework flexibility. A unitary Effector \(i. e., one which is incapable of operating in a hierarchical manner with other effectors in dynamic sensor web environments. Extending the Effector interface to support hierarchical and peer behavior with other Effectors deployed to the same node\(s advantages: \(1 lary as nearby nodes and devices power up/down in response to changing power availability and \(2 of"meta-Actions," which are ordered compositions of one or more concrete actions across one or more Effectors  A synchronous Effector interface may cause unacceptable delays. If an Action hangs or takes longer to complete than expected, the present synchronous interface will also cause the agent plan execution code to hang. This behavior is undesirable, however, since it may cause the agent to miss other important deadlines in its current plan of execution. Asynchronous Effector and Action interfaces can alleviate this concern  CIAO footprint is too large for resource constrained systems. The stringent resource constraints \(i.e., 32-64 MB RAM and processors operating at 266 MHz or less MONSTER field hardware were a significant hurdle due to the overhead \(especially memory footprint nents and deployment infrastructure. Previous CIAO developments focused on environments with significantly greater resources, e.g., nlore than a gigabyte of RAM and processors 


resources, e.g., nlore than a gigabyte of RAM and processors faster than two gigahertz. While CIAO is operational on the SEAMONSTER hardware, as indicated in Section 4, further work is needed to make the middleware efficient under tight resource constraints 10  DaNCE footprint and deployment latency is too high for resource constrained systems. As shown in Section 4, the largest consumers ofmemory in the middleware stack are the DAnCE daemons, in particular the ExecutionManager and NodeManager. The footprint of the newer deployment and configuration aspects of the middleware has been largely overlooked until now and needs to be addressed. Perhaps more importantly is the latency experienced during deployment, which has been observed to take as long as several minutes on SEAMONSTER hardware Future Work To further reduce the overhead of CIAO components and the DAnCE deployment infrastructure, we are working on multiple approaches, including context-aware generative techniques to prune unnecessary code/features  Generative component specialization. The CCM specification includes several features and capabilities in the component definition that may not be necessary in all situations such as generic navigation, introspection, and security features, which contribute to footprint bloat. Generative techniques could be used to prune these features on a case-by-case basis  Generative container specialization. The CIAO container is intended to be a generic solution providing a large feature set to satisfy user needs in most situations. As such it contains features and services that may not be necessary in specific deployments, and could be pruned by generating scenario-specific container implementations  Improve separation of concerns in DAnCE. The current DAnCE implementation tangles concerns of deployment and configuration with the run-time elements of the component server in the NodeApplication. This entanglement increases footprint by replicating large swathes of deployment logic in each component server. Careful analysis and refactoring is therefore needed to substantially decrease footprint and deployment latency ACE, TAO, CIAO, DAnCE, RACE, and SA-POP are opensource software that can be downloaded from download dre.vanderbilt.edu REFERENCES 1] K. Delin and S. Jackson, "Sensor Web for In Situ Exploration of Gaseous Biosignatures," 2000 2] P. Lardieri, J. Balasubramanian, D. C. Schmidt G. Thaker, A. Gokhale, and T. Damiano, "A Multi-layered Resource Management Framework for Dynamic Resource Management in Enterprise DRE Systems," Journal ofSystems and Software: Special Issue on Dynamic Resource Management in Distributed Real-time Systems, vol. 80, no. 7, pp 984-996, July 2007 3] O. Brown and P. Eremenko, "Fractionated Space Architectures: A Vision for Responsive Space," in Proceedings ofthe 4th Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, CA: American Institute of Aeronautics &amp Astronautics, Apr. 2006 4] D. Suri, A. Howell, D. C. Schmidt, G. Biswas J. Kinnebrew, W. Otte, and N. Shankaran, "A Multi-agent Architecture for Smart Sensing in the NASA Sensor Web," in Proceedings ofthe 2007 IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, Mar. 2007 5] D. R. Fatland, M. 1. Heavner, E. Hood, and C. Connor The SEAMONSTER Sensor Web: Lessons and Opportunities after One Year," AGU Fall Meeting Abstracts, pp. A3+, Dec. 2007 6] N. Wang, D. C. Schmidt, A. Gokhale, C. Rodrigues 


6] N. Wang, D. C. Schmidt, A. Gokhale, C. Rodrigues B. Natarajan, 1. P. Loyall, R. E. Schantz, and C. D. Gill QoS-enabled Middleware," in Middleware for Communications, Q. Mahmoud, Ed. New York Wiley and Sons, 2004, pp. 131-162 7] Light Weight CORBA Component Model Revised Submission, OMG Document realtime/03-05-05 ed Object Management Group, May 2003 8] Deployment and Configuration Adopted Submission OMG Document mars/03-05-08 ed., Object Management Group, July 2003 9] 1. S. Kinnebrew, W. R. Otte, N. Shankaran, G. Biswas and D. C. Schmidt, "Intelligent Resource Management and Dynamic Adaptation in a Distributed Real-time and Embedded Sensor Web System," Vanderbilt University, Tech. Rep. ISIS-08-906, 2008 10] W. R. Otte, 1. S. Kinnebrew, D. C. Schmidt, G. Biswas and D. Suri, "Application of Middleware and Agent Technologies to a Representative Sensor Network," in Proceedings ofthe Eighth Annual NASA Earth Science Technology Conference, University of Maryland, June 2008 11] J. S. Kinnebrew, A. Gupta, N. Shankaran, G. Biswas and D. C. Schmidt, "Decision-Theoretic Planner with Dynamic Component Reconfiguration for Distributed Real-time Applications," in The 8th International Symposium on Autonomous Decentralized Systems ISADS 2007 12] N. Shankaran, D. C. Schmidt, Y. Chen X. Koutsoukous, and C. Lu, "The Design and Performance ofConfigurable Component Middleware for End-to-End Adaptation of Distributed Real-time Embedded Systems," in Proc. ofthe 10th IEEE International Symposium on ObjectlComponentlService-oriented Real-time Distributed Computing \(ISORC 2007 Island, Greece, May 2007 13] CORBA Components v4.0, OMG Document forma1l2006-04-01 ed., Object Management Group Apr. 2006 11 14] The Common Object Request Broker: Architecture and Specification, 3.0.2 ed., Object Management Group Dec. 2002 15] N. Wang, K. Balasubramanian, and C. Gill, "Towards a real-time corba component model," in OMG Workshop On Embedded &amp; Real-time Distributed Object Systems Washington, D.C.: Object Management Group, July 2002 16] Lightweight CCM FTF Convenience Document ptc/04-06-10 ed., Object Management Group, June 2004 17] Deployment and Configuration ofComponent-based Distributed Applications, v4.0, Document forma1l2006-04-02 ed., OMG, Apr. 2006 18] G. Deng, J. Balasubramanian, W. Otte, D. C. Schmidt and A. Gokhale, "DAnCE: A QoS-enabled Component Deployment and Configuration Engine," in Proceedings ofthe 3rd Working Conference on Component Deployment \(CD 2005 Nov. 2005, pp. 67-82 19] M. Mikic-Rakic and N. Medvidovic Architecture-level support for software component deployment in resource constrained environments," in CD '02: Proceedings ofthe IFIPIACM Working Conference on Component Deployment. London UK: Springer-Verlag, 2002, pp. 31-50 20] T. Kalibera and P. Tuma, "Distributed component system based on architecture description: The sofa experience," in On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems, 2002 - DOAICoopISIODBASE 2002 Confederated International Conferences DOA, CoopIS 


Confederated International Conferences DOA, CoopIS and ODBASE 2002. London, UK: Springer-Verlag 2002, pp. 981-994 21] P. Hnetynka and F. Plasil, "Dynamic reconfiguration and access to services in hierarchical component models," in CBSE, 2006, pp. 352-359 22] A. Bouguerra and L. Karlsson, "Hierarchical Task Planning Under Uncertainty," 3rd Italian Workshop on Planning and Scheduling \(AI* IA 2004 2004 23] P. Haddawy, A. Doan, and R. Goodwin, "Efficient Decision-Theoretic Planning: Techniques and Empirical Analysis," Proceedings ofthe Eleventh Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence 1995 24] B. Srivastava and S. Kambhampati, "Scaling up Planning by Teasing Out Resource Scheduling," Proc European Conference on Planning, 1999 25] A. EI-Kholy and B. Richards, "Temporal and Resource Reasoning in Planning: The parcPLAN Approach Proceedings ofthe 12th European Conference on Artificial Intelligence \(ECAI-96 26] P. Laborie and M. Ghallab, "Planning with Sharable Resource C~onstraints," Proc. 14th Int. Joint Conf. on AI, pp. 1643-1649,1995 27] P. Friedland and Y. Iwasaki, "The concept and implementation of skeletal plans," Journal of Automated Reasoning, vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 161-208, 1985 28] S. Miksch, Y. Shahar, and P. Johnson, "Asbru: A Task-Specific, Intention-Based, and Time-Oriented Language for Representing Skeletal Plans," in Proceedings ofthe 7th Workshop on Knowledge Engineering: Methods &amp; Languages \(KEML-97 1997, pp. 9-19 29] L. Ihrig and S. Kambhampati, "Design and Implementation of a Replay Framework Based on a Partial Order Planner," in Proceedings ofthe National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 1996, pp 849-854 William R. Otte is a Ph.D. student in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science \(EECS Vanderbilt University. His research focuses on middleware for distributed realtime and embedded \(ORE is currently involved in several aspects of developing a Deployment and Configuration Engine \(DAnCE involves investigation of techniques for run- time planning and adaptation for component based applications as well as specification and enforcement of application quality of service and fault tolerance requirements. William graduated with a B.S. in Computer Science from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN in 2005 Deputy Office Director and a Program Manager at DARPAs Information Technology Office \(ITO ploitation Office \(IXO fort on middleware and model-driven development technologies for enterprise ORE systems. In addition to his academic research and government service, Dr. Schmidt has over fifteen years of experience researching and developing ACE TAO, CIAO, and CoSMIC, which are widely used, opensource middleware frameworks and model-driven development tools that contain a rich set of components and domainspecific languages that implement patterns and product-line architectures for mission-critical enterprise ORE systems Gautam Biswas is a Professor of Computer Science and Computer Engineering as well as a Senior Research Scientist at the Institute for Software Integrated Systems \(ISIS versity. His primary areas of research 


is in modeling, simulation, monitoring and control of complex systems as well as planning, scheduling, and resource allocation algorithms in manufacturing systems and distributed real-time environments. Dr. Biswas has published over 300 technical papers and is well-recognized for his projects in diagnosis, faultadaptive control, and learning environments. These projects have been supported with funding from DARPA, NASA NSF, AFOSR, and the Department of Education. He has served as an associate editor for a number ofjournals and has been program chair or co-chair for a number of conferences John S. Kinnebrew is a PhD student in computer science at Vanderbilt University. He received his B.A. in computer science from Harvard University in 2001. His current research focuses on artificial intelligence planning and scheduling techniques in autonomous systems Douglas C. Schmidt is a Professor of Computer Science at the Institute for Software Integrated Systems \(ISIS Vanderbilt University. He is a widely cited expert on patterns, frameworks and middleware for distributed real-time and embedded \(ORE Schmidt has published over 400 technical papers and 9 books and has given over 400 invited talks and tutorials that cover a range of research topics, including patterns, optimization techniques, and empirical analyses of software frameworks and domain-specific modeling environments that facilitate the development of ORE middleware and applications running over high-speed networks and embedded system interconnects. Dr. Schmidt has served as a 12 pre></body></html 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


