Stride Information Monitoring and Sensing in Sports L. Cheng 1 K. Roskilly 2 G. Kuntze 3 H. Tan 2 J. Lowe 2 S. Hailes 1 D. G. Kerwin 3 A. Wilson 2 1 Computer Science University College London Malet Place, London, UK, WC1E 6BT l.cheng, s.hailes}@cs.ucl.ac.uk 2 Royal Veterinary College, Structure and Motion Lab, Hawkshead Lane Herts, UK, AL9 7TA kroskilly, htan, jlowe awilson}@rvc.ac.uk 3 Cardiff School of Sport, University of Wales Institute, Cardiff, Cyncoed Road, Cardiff, UK, CF23 6XD gkuntze, dkerwin}@uwic.ac.uk Abstract Accurate measurements of athletes’ stride parameters such as stride/step length, stride/step frequency, stance times and foot contact times are import ant to coaching support and biomechanics research in sprinting. Existing stride parameter monitoring approaches are either expensive, or insufficiently accurate, or not suitable for suppor ting daily training sessions This paper investigates the use of cost-effective, low quality track-side and on-body sensors in a novel way to enable practical capture of accurate stride information of sprinters. It was investigated how information fusion could play a big part in practical sensing systems; an d how novel sy stem design could avoid the need of sophisticat ed synchronisation between intra and inter- homogeneous and heterogeneous subsystems. The work also explored the importance of linking heterogeneous data streams to support easy informat ion fusion. Experiment results show that the presented system has an accuracy of 1.661 1.002cm \(mean ± SD\tride length measurements, with 50 errors fall within 3ms and 80% errors fall within 5ms for foot contact time Keywords  Foot pressure sensing, sports application sprinting; stride parameter monitoring; video sensing I I NTRODUCTION There are several well known factors that affect sprinters performances \(i.e. speed\stride/step length stride/step frequency, foot contact times, stance times 1 etc These are important factors to coaching and biomechanics research. Due to the competitive nature of sprinting - the difference in performance between elite sprinters is often within milliseconds – the accuracy of athletic sport performance monitoring systems is therefore important Existing stride parameter monitoring approach commonly uses optical-based systems   a cti ve or passi ve ma rker s a r e  placed on different segments of a subject, the data of the motions are captured, and regenerated into 2D or 3D space motion by the system, and the results are subsequently analysed. These systems are very accurate \(millimeter-level accuracy [1  but als o ver y  e xpens ive ti m e cons um i n g to setup, and have limited viewing angle. Thus, existing studies  1 Foot-on is the motion when the foot is touching down on the ground Stride length is the horizontal distance between two subsequent foot-ons of the same foot. Step length is the distance between two subsequent foot-ons of an athlete. Stride frequency is the rate at which a stride is made. Foot contact time is the amount of time the foot is on the ground; stance time is the amount of time the foot is in the air are limited to small-scale and short-term study. A long-term collection of accurate  fine-grain stride parameters of a large poll of athletes with different physical characteristics combined with a record of the corresponding training strategies, would provide important data to address a fundamental question in sprinting that are yet to be answered what are the characteristics that distinguish between faster and slower sprinters In recent years, the use of sensors in many application domains has been reported: for example in energy sensing health sensing, and more. The use of sensors in the sports domain, however, has attracted relatively less attention. The best practice for designing and implementing ubiquitous computing systems for sports performance monitoring was outlined in wea rabl e piezoelectric force sensing system for detecting scoring kicks in Taewondo matches was presented The use of a ne twork of l i g ht se nsor s for speed monitoring of athletes was reported in 11]; t h e use  of radio-based localisation tech niques for monitoring the continuous speed of athletes was reported in  S inc e the  performance differences of elite athletes differ only slightly, a sports performance monitoring system that provides data for characterising the performance differences between athletes must be reliable and robust, and must deliver results of a high level of accuracy. Yet, the system must be practical and the monetary cost of the system must be kept low so that the scale of deployment is maximised in order to collect a large data set over long distance runs and over a long period of time 2 These challenges raise a series of in teresting research questions that have not been fully addressed before in the sensing community: could low cost sensors – which often have limited functionalities and less than desire data qualities - deliver results with a level of accuracy that is comparable to ones obtained using expensive gold-standard technologies in a reliable way? In a real sensing system where heterogeneous sub\systems are integrated to deliver useful results, precise synchronisation is often considered as a major issue; but are there any novel way\(s\one could adopt to avoid the need of sophisticated - potentially complicated - synchronisation in the system\(s\? How could one utilise the idea of information fusion in sensing system to push the limits of sensing systems  2 Identifying the exact number of data samples needed for biomechanics research is out-of-scope of this paper; but none-theless, existing solutions are not suitable, therefore cheap and practical solutions are needed 978-1-4244-7489-9/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE 205 


Are there other methods that could be adopted to ease information fusion, instead of just combining data together The authors argue that sensing technologies - when combined with creative system designs - could provide practical, accurate, reliable and cost-effective solutions to everyday problems. This paper attempts to address the above research questions through the process of designing developing and deploying a highly accurate, cost-effective and practical sensing system - known as the Step Information Monitoring and Sensing \(SIMS c h f u se s data from on-body sensors and track-side sensors to deliver the full, complete package of stride parameters of athletes. The design, design factors and evaluation results of the integrated sensing system are presented in this paper. A prototype was developed for evaluation purpose; the results are presented in this paper. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, the approach presented in this paper is novel and the system is the first of its kind This paper begins with an overview on existing approaches, with their advantages and disadvantages highlighted; secondly, the SIMS system and its design features are presented, and the design choices and other possible options are explained. Thirdly, the results of a series of experiments using a prototype of the SIMS system are presented and discussed. Then, the applicability and potential impact of SIMS are discussed. This paper finishes with a conclusion and future work II R ELATED W ORK A Gold-Standard Technologies It was discussed in section I that optical-based systems are accurate but also very expensive, which makes them far from ideal to be used on a daily basis by coaches and athletes. For example, CODA [3 is an act iv e ma r k er sy st em Each  scan n e r  i.e. camera\osts ~£20,000, and has limited viewing angle Thus, multiple scanners would be needed to cover a long track e.g. 60 to 100m+ for straights\Also, each scanner must be setup and recalibrated for each training session; athletes must also wear multiple markers. The same constraints apply to passive marker systems such as Qualisys Alterna ti ve ly high speed video cameras \(2Kfps\ could be used to capture video footage of athletes. The advantage being that no onbody markers would be needed; but these cameras are also very expensive \(>£5k per camera\For precise measurements such as measuring the exact moment and the exact position of foot-on and foot-off \(for deriving foot contact times, stride frequency, and stride length etc.\, high quality lens and intensive lighting would be needed; the cameras must also be placed horizontally to the track and close to the ground level but even so, the use of video-based systems to measure contact times is difficult. Due to the limited viewing angle, multiple precisely synchronised cameras 3 would be needed in order to  3 To determine the stance time between two subsequent foot-ons each captured by a different camera \(i.e. when the subject is at the edge of the viewing angle of the camera\ the cameras must be precisely synchronised \(i.e. frame-by-frame\order for the timerelated parameter to be meaningful. FireWire cameras would be cover for a long distance, which adds complexity to the approach. These drawbacks make high speed cameras not suitable for monitoring regular training sessions either Force Plates \(FPs\ are the gold-standard for foot contact time measurements due to their high accuracy. However, FPs are very expensive, generally come in small size due to the high cost involved, and must be embedded underneath the lanes. The Opto-jump system is the closest work related to the presented system. It comprises a series of 1m long metal square sectioned tubes which link together. Infrared beams emanate from the tubes very close to floor level, the feet breaking the beams would give the step lengths and times. They are very expensive \(US$3K per 1m\very time consuming to setup and must be removed after every training session B Wireless Sensor-based Technologies Sensor-based systems tend to be monetary cheaper than gold-standard technologies. One of the approaches in the wireless sensing community is to obtain stride parameters through on-body inertial se  F o r exam pl e  the  us e of inertial sensors for monitoring the stride parameters of pedestrian and runners have been reported in and 6 respectively. The speed \(i.e. acceleration\ of the subjects in the experiments, however, was only half of the typical speed of a sprinter \(i.e. 4.72 to 5.28m/s vs. 7 to 10m/s\. A wireless, radiobased localisation system for estimating stride length of athletes was reported in The pa per repor ts t h a t t h rough examining gold-standard stride data of sprinters, a relationship between stride length and the corresponding CoM forward displacement was established; thus, one could obtain stride length by combining the CoM forward displacements of a sprinter obtained through a wireless localisation system, and the foot-on moments detected by on-body sensors. The paper identified that the stride length and CoM forward displacement are more closely related during the secondary acceleration phase, maximum speed phase and the deceleration phase of a sprint; but the two are less related during the first acceleration phase \(e.g. when the sprinter is raising from the block at start\ due to the differences between individual’s starting technique. Thus, from a coaching support point-of-view, CoM forward displacement is not equivalent to stride length. Thus, another approach should be investigated to deliver stride information to the required level of accuracy and reliability for coaching support and biomechanics research III S UBSYSTEM D ESIGN The SIMS system has two integrated subsystems: an onbody foot-pressure sensing system and a track-side videosensing system. The former subsystem provides accurate timerelated information of stride parameters, such as foot contact time, stance time, and stride/step frequency. The latter subsystem provides fundamental positional information – when integrated with time-related stride information from the onbody foot pressure sensing subsystem – would enable one to derive accurate stride/step length  suitable but at a high cost and high complexity with wires running along the track between cameras 206 


A System Requirements and Assumptions A stride information sensing system should capture the following information: stride/step length, stride/step frequency stance time, and foot contact time. The system must be accurate at any speed. The system must be cost-effective that it should be significantly cheaper than other systems, and must be scalable that its design should provision the system to be expanded to cover longer lanes. Since the track is a shared environment, the number and size of track-side equipment should be minimised so that the disturbance to other track users would be kept to a minimal. It should be robust and userfriendly that it can be used on a daily basis by non-computer experts. On-body sensors should be small in size, light in weight, non-intrusive, and easy to attach This paper defines stride length as the forward, horizontal displacement of the same foot during subsequent foot-ons According to the regulations, athletes are forbidden to cross lanes during a sprint Also, it is a s sumed t h a t  the im me d i a t e  space on the lane ahead of the sprinter is clear of obstructions for safety purposes. Athletes trains a couple of sets per day, and each set lasts no more than a few hours to avoid fatigue and injury, so batteries could be recharged after a day session; thus energy issues are not addressed. Security and privacy issues are beyond the scope of this paper B The Foot Pressure Sensing \(FPS\tem  433MHz FR transceiver Pressure sensors Sensor node Figure 1 – The SIMS FPS The SIMS Foot Pressure Sensing \(FPS\ \(Figure 1\includes two Force Sensing Resistors \(FSRs\mpling sensor node, a wireless transceiver for synchronisation, and a microSD card. FSRs have been commonly used for foot contact time \(and subsequently stride frequency\ monitoring cheap, flat, tiny pressure sensors are embedded into the insoles Foot-on and foot-off moments are detected by measuring the direct impact of force the foot exerted on the embedded sensors at foot-on and foot-off. Besides, FSRs are very cheap. The two FSRs under the toe on each insole are connected to a sampling sensor node \(i.e. a MSP430 processor\hrough short wires, just long enough so that the sampling sensor node can be attached to the subject’s ankle. The foot-on and foot-off moments represented by the moments the pressure exerted on the sensors exceed beyond and fall below a certain threshold respectively are timestamped by the sampling sensor node to deduce foot contact time; from which, stance time \(i.e. the time duration between two subsequent foot-on of the same foot\nd stride frequency can be calculated. Note that the FSR on the heel \(see Figure 1\t used because sprinters do not sprint on heels R G FSR GND V OUT V REF 2  Figure 2 – FSR electrical interface, a non-inverting amplifier           FSR R C R REF V OUT V 1 2 3.1 Whereas conductance S FSR equals FSR R FSR S 1  3.2 Substitute equation \(3.2\nto \(3.1 012 FSR S G R REF V OUT V   1 2 3.3 Whereas force F  FSR S F  3.4 In more detail, the FPS system is designed around Interlink Electronics Force Sensing Resistor \(FSR\ model 406.  These are thin 1.5” square sensors attached at the toe positions on a standard shoe insole, as shown in Figure 1. The conductance rather than resistance, of the FSRs varies approximately linearly with applied force. As recommended in  a currentto-voltage converter circuit is used to generate force signals from the FSR insole. This circuit is an op-amp non-inverting amplifier, as shown in Figure 2, with output represented in equation \(3.1\The circuit therefore increases, very approximately, linearly with applied force.  The output is limited to vary from 2 REF V to REF V where REF V is the supply voltage, but the circuit has the advantage of requiring only a single-sided power supply. The output signals generated from the FSR electrical interface are recorded by the sensor node, which is no more than a general purpose logging board Data is recorded to an on-board microSD card at a rate of 300Hz, on multiple channels, via a 12-bit ADC \(giving 11-bit precision due to half-supply voltage swing\In the evaluation sections \(section V.A and V.B\ll be shown that 300Hz is sufficiently high enough for the purpose of the system. The result is an unobtrusive, self-contained system 207 


C Wireless Synchronisation in FPS To obtain step frequency \(i.e. how often the foot of the same person lands\would be needed, one on each foot. Furthermore, the two FPSs must be synchronised. One option is to introduce a centralised “on-body synchronisation server”, placed at CoM, with wires running down the subject’s leg to their feet \(i.e. where the FPSs are located\, which has an accurate clock and delivers sync pulses to the FPSs to drive the sampling activity. This approach is similar to the Xbus inertial sensing system fr This app roach  howe v er, is least preferred because of the presence of wires running along the lower segments, which may lead to safety hazards To address this problem, the SIMS FPS system uses wireless synchronisation. The on-body sampling node is connected to an on-board wireless module \(i.e. RF650 from RF Solutions, a RF transceiver operating in the 433MHz channel for receiving wireless sync pulses from a \(track-side\wireless sync pulse generator. The sampling node samples from three ADC channels at 1kHz \(i.e. ~300Hz per channel\data from the two pressure sensors under the toe respectively and sync pulses received through the wireless module. Thus, a common timebase between data samples and sync pulses is achieved The wireless sync pulses are sent at 1Hz, which is sufficiently frequent to address the small time drift in the devices D The Video Sensor \(VS\Subsystem As discussed in section III.B, the SIMS FPS subsystem is capable of capturing all time-related stride parameters. The remaining parameter is stride/step length. One may argue that stride/step length could be captured by any conventional videobased systems. To do so, one must identify where the foot is touching down. However, it was discussed in section II.A that even with high definition, expensive high speed video cameras one would find it difficult to determine this information unless the cameras are placed close to the ground level, horizontal to the track, and with intensive lighting, which are tasks that are very difficult to achieve in a shared environment such as a running track in a stadium Camera-based systems or video sensors, however, are the candidate technologies that are more likely to generate accurate positional measurements than any other systems. The first challenge, therefore, is to provide a means for low-cost video sensors of low resolution that are placed far away from the track – such as in the roof of a stadium \(to minimise disturbance to other track users\- to determine exactly where the foot is touching the ground. The second challenge is to design the system so that even with the presence of the onbody sensors and multiple track-side video sensors \(for wider coverage no precise synchronisation between the video sensors and on-body sensors would be needed The elimination of complex protocols in the system improves reliability and helps bringing down the cost, which in turn, improves practicability and scalability IV T HE I NTEGRATED SIMS S YSTEM From existing literatures, it was observed that: a\ the minimum foot contact time of elite athletes is between 90 to 10 rela t i vely long time co mpa res to t h e  frame-rate of a half-decent video sensor \(typically at 100Hz b\ during a foot-on, the toe is stationary, it is the heel that is rotating; and c\ during a sprint, at any one point, only one foot would be on the ground. Based on these observations, the SIMS FPS includes a 3mm orange-red LED \(Maplin, N29BY The LED is placed on the side of the shoe at the toe \(one on each shoe\acing towards the track-side VSs. and the corresponding LED is turned ON when the pressure measured by the FPS exceeds a certain threshold \(i.e. at a foot-on\The LED is turned OFF when the pressure falls below a certain threshold \(i.e. at a foot-off\Video sensors are placed at fixed suitable locations above the track \(i.e. in the roof of the stadium\would capture all the motion of the athletes Thus, a bright red dot in the images captured by the fixedposition track-side video sensor\(s\ would represent the exact position where the foot is on the ground. Together with the camera’s calibration data, one would be able to determine stride/step length, which is essentially the horizontal distance between each subsequent red dots \(Figure 3  Calibration points 0.5m 0.6m 1.2m one lane Direction of sprint Foot contact points X Y Drawing not in scale Stride length 1 23 4 Overlapped area Start-up line 5 Figure 3 – Illustration of stride length determination in SIMS and calibration points The video sensor chosen for experimentation in this paper is from PointGrey \(CMLN-13S2C-CS 1.3MP Chamelon USB2.0\ith a maximum sampling rate of 30Hz. A 4mm lens was used to maximise the view of coverage. Readers should note that the presented system is not restricted to one type of technology: a frame rate of 30Hz is sufficient to capture the red dots at foot-ons \(i.e. the latter has duration ranges from 90 to 100ms\which is a very reasonable requirement for modern cameras. A video sensor with a global shutter is preferred for shorter exposure. Note that SIMS is applicable in other sports domains that require accurate stride parameter measurements such as sprint training in football \(i.e. soccer\, etc V E XPERIMENTS R ESULTS Some important questions must be answered through evaluation: a\how accurate is the FPS for foot-on and foot-off detection? b\ How accurate is the FPS’s internal synchronisation? c\ When the LED is ON, does the LED in the images captured by the VS subsystem standout clear enough to allow the image processing software to identify the LED’s pixel coordinates? d\e convert the LED’s pixel coordinates to real-world coordinates, accurate enough for stride/step length calculation? In this section, firstly, the experiment results on the accuracy of FPS for foot-on and footoff detection and synchronisation will be presented. Secondly the above questions related to the VS subsystem will be addressed through a series of experiments. Readers should note 208 


that the system’s hardware and software are not limited to those used in these experiments A Foot Contact Time Accuracy of FSR    6000 6200 6400 6600 6800 7000 7200 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 FSR-Heel FSR-Ball FSR-Toe Force Plate FP FSR-toe FSR-ball FSR-heel Figure 4 – Raw data from FPS and FP during running \(>6m/s To evaluate foot contact times \(and subsequently stride/step frequency\he raw data from the FPS system and the Force Plates \(Kistler Instrumente AG, Winterthur, Switzerland\ are compared. In running, the heel barely touched the ground or had very short time on the ground \(Figure 4\s confirms that the stride length should be derived from toe’s positions The sharp increase in each channel of the raw data from the FPS system indicates the ‘touch-down’ of the point where the sensor was attached, and the sharp decrease in the raw data indicates the ‘take-off’ of the point. These sharp increases and decreases were detected by finding the local maximum and minimum of the first-order differentiation of the raw data. For each stride, the first touch-down time among the pressure sensors should be the foot-on time for the stride, and the last take-off time within the toe pressure sensors should be the footoff time. In running or sprinting, the touch-down and take-off from the toe sensor were used for foot-on and foot-off timings The stance duration, which is the time the foot is in contact with the ground, was calculated by taking the difference between the foot-off time and foot-on time For validating the accuracy of time-related stride parameters of FPS, the FPS and the FP are synchronised, and data was collected from ninety-five strides at different speeds from ~3 to ~6.5m/s\. On average, two strides were collected per trial. The synchronisation method involves delivering a sync signal from the FP to the FPS’s track-side sync server via a BNC cable. Note that the sync server is also sending wireless sync pulses at 1Hz to the on-body sensors; thus synchronisation between intra- and inter- homogeneous and heterogeneous systems is achieved. The FPS is sampling at 300Hz per channel. The error distributions of the foot-on times and stance durations are shown in Figure 5 and Figure 6 respectively. The standard deviation of the foot-on time and stance durations calculated from FSR is 3.1ms and 4.2ms respectively compared to those from FP, with 50% of the strides having error within 3ms and 80% having the error within 5ms in both foot-on time and stance durations Assuming an athlete sprints at an average speed of 7m/s, a 5ms error is equivalent to a 3.5cm positional error, a 3ms error is equivalent to a 2.1cm positional error. These errors are within the requirement. Note that stride/step frequency are calculated from these time parameters 8 6 4 2 0 2 4 6 0 5 10 15 20 25 Error in Foot-On Time \(ms Percentage Figure 5 – Error distributions of foot-on times of FPS \(vs. FP 8 6 4 2 0 2 4 6 8 10 5 10 15 20 25 Error of Stance Time \(ms Percentage Figure 6 – Error distributions of stance times of FPS \(vs. FP B Synchronisation Accuracy of FPS The accuracy of the pulse-based synchronisation between the FPS sensor node and the sync server was validated in this section. Note that because the maximum sampling rate in SIMS is low \(i.e. 300Hz in FPS\ccuracy of the synchronisation method needs only to be 3.33ms. The two boards and a sync pulse generator were switched on and the boards’ logging started at a rate of 300Hz. A trigger signal was generated consisting of rising and falling edges at arbitrary intervals, and logged directly into a channel on both logger boards simultaneously. The timings of the trigger signal edges from each board were then converted to a common timebase, using the received pulses, and differenced. From 150 trigger edges the mean absolute timing error was 0.647ms with a standard deviation of 0.715ms. 67.3% of the edges times were no more than 1ms \(1 sample period\rent, 88% were no more than 1.01ms different, and 100% were no more than 2ms \(2 sample periods\ent. This is an acceptable result, considering at 209 


an average speed of 7m/s, a 2ms error would translate to 1.4cm positional error. Note that because the FSR is synchronised one could work out which step is which even if the VS subsystem fails to pick up the odd steps C Image Processing of Video Sensing Subsystem It is important that the image processing software would be able to: a\distinguish from a series of images whether the LED is ON \(i.e. the capability to separate the images with red dots from those without a red dot\b\images which show the LED is ON, identify the pixel coordinates of the red dot. For this purpose, all the images were then processed by a custom-written Matlab program using the Image Processing Toolbox. Once the pixel coordinates of a series of red dots \(i.e foot-on positions\are identified, the custom-written Matlab code maps the red dot’s pixel coordinates into real world coordinates \(in metre\in order to derive the stride length. Due to the distortion of the lens, the lane of interest would appear slightly bent towards the edges of the images. Thus, the program makes use of the pixel coordinates of a set of predetermined ground-truth calibration points \(the white crosses on the lane in Figure 7\ the lane for stride length calculation The region of interest is 10m along one lane \(each lane is 1.2m in width 4 libration points in this experiment are separated by 50cm \(horizontally\60cm \(vertically sufficiently fine-grain enough for step length calculation. It should be noted that calibration is only needed to be done once only per installation because the video sensors’ locations are fixed. Because all the calibration points’ real-world positions are fixed and known, one could calculate stride length between any two red dots. Experiments over 15 trials confirmed that an area of 0.5m x 0.6m per zone on a lane of 1.2m width is sufficiently fine-grain enough for calibration D Evaluating Stride Length Accuracy of SIMS  0m for starts 10m 1.2m Figure 7 – An interlaced picture showing a series of foot-ons captured by the VS subsystem \(one FPS on each foot\for a maximum speed trial An experiment was conducted at the National Indoor Athletic Centre \(NIAC\iff, UK to evaluate the accuracy of step length calculation of the SIMS system. One adult  4 Regulations state that the width of a standard running lane is fixed at 1.2m subject sprints for 15 trials 5 i.e. a total of 42 steps over nine starts and six maximum speed sprints 6 he step lengths calculated by SIMS are compared with those obtained by a gold-standard system \(i.e. CODA DA – w h ich is  commonly used for body movement monitoring in sports science - was used as the gold-standard technologies for evaluation because of its widely recognised high level of accuracy \(i.e. millimeter level accuracy In th is  experiment, four synchronised CODA scanners are placed horizontally to the track to monitor the 2D 7 movements of the subject’s foot over a 10m region of one lane. The SIMS VS subsystem is placed on the balcony of the stadium in the middle of the 10m region. Note that the further away the VSs the less sharp the images are; thus, the image processing is more challenging. Note that this setup is the exact opposite to the setup required for high speed video camcorders; the latter requires high frame rate cameras with high resolution lens to be placed close to the track with intensive lighting A 4mm lens was used for the VS to maximise the range of coverage; the total range of coverage of each VS is ~15m, but the effective view of coverage of the VS subsystem is 10m because the focus is lost at the edges. The FPS is attached to both feet of the subject. Note that the LED is orange-red in colour; thus, a red spike was used to create the worst case scenario. For completeness, a green spike was used for the last trial and it was observed that the colour of the spike has no effect on the accuracy of the system. The LED is placed on the side of the toe to ensure it is as close to ground as possible CODA active markers are placed next to the orange-red LED These markers would enable CODA to recreate the foot’s motion in 2D space. Figure 7 shows a series of snap shots of an athlete at touch-down captured by the VS subsystem of one of the trials The results show that the system has an absolute accuracy of 1.661±1.002cm \(mean±SD\r stride length measurements The minor errors are most likely to be caused by the errors related to the calibration point measurements, which was done manually using measuring tape. To further improve accuracy measurements could be done by hand-held laser rangers, which are commonly used in construction sites. Thus, the result is comparable to the 1cm accuracy reported in existing literature 19   VI D ESIGN F EATURES AND T RANSFERABLE K NOWLEDGE SIMS provides a practical and elegant way of capturing accurate stride-related information of sprinters using low cost sensors in a novel way; and its design provisions for coverage over a long distance of straight and oval tracks, in both indoor  5 The number of trials in biomechanics and sports science experiments is limited due to the involvement of \(human\ubjects and environment constraints \(i.e. a shared environment 6 Starts mean the subject is doing either a standing-start or block-start just before the calibrated area on the track; maximum speed means the subject starts at 30m away from the edge of the calibrated area The two sets were included to ensure the stride lengths are different \(at maximum speed, stride length is maximised 7 Step length is the horizontal distance between two foot-ons; so 2D data of the foot is sufficient for the purpose of this paper 210 


and outdoor environments. In this section, its unique design features and transferable knowledge will be discussed A Utilise the Technique of Linked Information Fusion The wirelessly synchronised FPS subsystems enable the collection of all time-related stride parameters accurately. The inclusion of the red LED in FPS enables the exact location on the track where the foot is on the ground to be identified by the video sensors, thus enabling an accurate calculation of stride/step length by the VS subsystem. Only minimum trackside equipments are needed to be installed \(i.e. the video sensors in the roof, which is the least disturbing location to other track users\Once the system is installed and calibrated it would require minimal maintenance  Inertial data hgh sampling rate i  Inertial data  high sampling rate Video data high sampling rate Foot pressure data low sampling rate Video data low sampling rate Detected foot-on LED ON Accurate foot contact time, etc Accurate stride length Complicated data analysis Inaccurate stride parameters Complicated data analysis Potentially inaccurate stride parameters Simple data analysis Simple data analysis a\ Inertial sensors only b\ Conventional information fusion c\ Linked information fusion \(the SIMS approach Precise sync Loose sync Figure 8 – Differences between different approaches The presented approach illustrates how information fusion is achieved through integrating data from heterogeneous systems to deliver accurate results that otherwise would be difficult to obtain. More importantly, the data being fused are linked In contrast to existing approaches, which relies solely on on-body inertial sensors and post-data collection analysis using signal processing tec Figure  8a r f u ses synchronised but independent video data with inertial sensors which creates a challenge of precise wireless synchronisation discussed in section II.A\and the need of potentially complicated image processing algorithms \(Figure 8b\he presented approach \(Figure 8c\ses different types of data together – in this case foot pressure data and video data - but with the latter being linked to the former. The red LED of FPS subsystem provides a crucial piece of information to the VS subsystem which enables the latter to work out easily the point of each foot-on \(hence the corresponding stride/step length which is otherwise difficult to achieve. Using conventional networking expression, instead of the conventional approach which fuses two streams of data from independent systems, the presented approach provides the much needed interface between the two subsystems, so that the two data streams being fused are no longer independent but related. The VS subsystem can now easily work out when the foot-on moments are \(i.e the images with red LED detected\ and most importantly where the foot-on positions are \(i.e. the pixel coordinates of the red LED, which is translatable to real-world coordinates\The immediate benefit is a significantly simplified and more robust data analysis process with high accuracy. Figure 8 shows the differences between existing approaches and the presented information fusion approach B Enabling Low Sampling Rate The optimal sampling rate is the minimal rate that would deliver data up to the level of accuracy required 2 1 s was suggested as a suitable benchmark sampling rate in WSNs using audio codecs rate at 48kHz as a reference. In sampling nodes with sampling rate ranges from 1k to 1MHz was reported. The optimal rate is therefore conventionally considered as application dependent In this paper, it was illustrated that with novel system design with linked information fusion, low capability sensors of low sampling rate, such as 300Hz for the FSR and 30Hz for the VSs, would be sufficient to deliver highly accurate results Without the use of information fusion, one would anticipate the system requires a higher sampling rate \(for example, a typical high speed video camcoder or a laser range finder would operate at 2kHz\. Keeping sampling rate as low as possible has a number of advantages: less data are collected, therefore less work for the sensor node to do which in turn frees up the sensor node to do other work, etc.; but also - as will be discussed in next section - a low sampling rate system means one could deploy a less sophisticated, less complicated synchronisation protocol; which in turn, would enable one to use less intelligent, cheaper devices such as micro-controllers on sensor node, because no complex algorithms need to be run in real-time for system operation: the use of simple devices that carry out simple operations reduces the level of \(distributed complexity in the system, which in turn improves the overall robustness and reliability, and enables easier maintenance C Evaluating the Need of Sophisticated Synchronisation Protocols It should be noted that a sensing system, should it consist of a number of sensing devices, would require some form of synchronisation. A number of synchronisation protocols for sensor networks have been proposed, each with different levels of accuracy and complexity, but all existing work require the participating nodes to adopt a common synchronisation protocol \(i.e. a homogeneous environment\, sensor nodes with an embedded Operating System \(OS\implementing the protocols are often assume  I n  m a ny exist i n g  work that involve multiple wired sensing systems - especially those involving multiple video sensors - precise synchronisation \(i.e. frame-by-frame synchronisation\s often a must requireme shou ld b e not ed that in t h e real world, synchronisation is beyond synchronising devices within a homogeneous system; but instead, inter-system synchronisation over heterogeneous systems must also be addressed. Adapting existing synchronisation approaches would add cost and complexity to the system development process 211 


The authors argue that, system designers must identify how accurate their systems needed to be synchronised. Identifying the answer to this question would enable one to which protocol is the most suitable. SIMS only requires low sampling rate devices; thus a less complicated synchronisation protocol is used \(as discussed in section III.C and V.B\Furthermore through the use of information fusion and a creative system design, only a very loose form of synchronisation \(i.e. a common start such as a 3.3V falling edge signal delivered via BNS cable\ would be needed for synchronising the VSs \(i.e synchronisation within a homogeneous system\and for synchronising the VS subsystem with the FPS’s track-side sync server \(i.e. synchronisation across heterogeneous systems Such arrangement has a significant impact on the system’s design: even for large scale coverage which requires multiple video sensors at different places along a track, no precise synchronisation between the video sensors and the on-body sensors would be needed because all time-related information are provided by the internally synchronised FPSs, which uses a simple, validated synchronisation method. The evaluation results show that a one-way synchronisation protocol would be sufficient for achieving the desired level of accuracy in synchronisation. Another advantage is that the cost is driven down significantly because less sophisticated video capture devices are used: each foot-on is >90ms, thus a video capture device with a sampling rate >10Hz would be sufficient for capturing the short-live flashes from the LED It should be noted that, however, the presented argument does not mean that existing synchronisation protocols are ineffective; but instead to point out the importance and benefits of information fusion, and how creative system designs could play a big part in simplifying the system’s design; yet the system would still be capable of delivering highly accurate results but using less complicated protocols with low-cost devices. The authors argue that these are the major factors for pushing the limits of sensing systems VII C ONCLUSION In sprinting, accurate measurements of stride-related information, such as stride/step length, stride/step frequency stance times, and foot contact times are important parameters to support coaching and biomechanics research. This paper presents a novel, accurate, cost-effective, practical and user friendly integrated sensing system - which includes an on-body foot pressure sensing system and a track-side video sensing system - that is capable of delivering the complete set of striderelated information of sprinters. The system is expandable to cover any distances of straights and oval tracks. The system uses a novel design to eliminate the need of sophisticated synchronisation, and it is applicable to other types of sports performance monitoring. It was discussed why the system was designed in such a way, and how the design considerations and factors are applicable to fellow sensing system designer and developers The presented work highlights the fact that information fusion on data from multiple heterogeneous, low cost, low sampling rate sensing systems has an important role to play in pushing the limits of sensing systems; but – through novel system design – complicated synchronisation between heterogeneous systems is not necessary, yet gold-standard comparable accuracy is achieved. It was demonstrated that when fusing data together - why one should explore the relationship between independent data streams; the result is a much more practical system with significantly simplified data analysis algorithms and accurate results. The authors conclude that sensing technologies do provide a practical and costeffective alternative approach to existing systems with comparable accuracy. To the best of the authors’ knowledge the presented system is truly novel and it’s the first and only system capable of delivering accurate stride/step parameters of athletes using practical and low-cost sensors. Table 1 shows a summary of comparison between different approaches Systems High speed videos Convention al cameras Opticalbased systems Inertial sensors SIMS Cost High Low High  Lowmedium Low Accuracy Mediumhigh if placed closed to track Low High Low for sprinting High Data complete ness Potentially full set but difficult to identify each footon location Unknown most likely to support full set Full set Unable to determine accurate stride length at high acc Full set Sync method Requires sophisticated synchronisation between cameras and onbody sensors, if applicable  Requires sophisticated synchronisation between cameras and onbody sensors, if applicable Requires sophisticated synchronisation between cameras Unknown most likely via wireless Simple wireless sync. at 1Hz for FPSs common start for FPSs and VSs Scalability Low multiple cameras would be needed Low multiple cameras would be needed Low many cameras would be needed on-body markers would be needed calibretion would be needed High only inertial sensors would be needed Medium high multiple video sensors would be needed as well as onbody sensors Possibility for automation Lowmedium data \(i.e images must be analysed complicated analysis protocol Low; data i.e images must be manually analysed Low data \(i.e 3D coordinates of various segments ust be manually Unknown inertial data must be converted into 3D space prior analysis Simple directly measureable stride parameters custom written code for 212 


needed analysed image processing and stride length calculation User friendliness Low Low Low High system dependent High Table 1 – Comparison between different approaches VIII.F UTURE W ORK Future work includes completing the development and installation process of all the VSs in the roof at NIAC modifying the current FPS to enable real-time delivery of pressure data to a track-side system to enable more userfriendly data collection; developing a near-real-time graphical display of results to coaches 8 and establishing a long-term data storage facility for hosting the system’s data to support longterm biomechanics studies A CKNOWLEDGEMENT The authors would like to thank Rae Harbird, Scott Simpson Ian Bezodis, Michelle Manning, Philipa Jones, Tim Exell, Alex Atack, Gen Williams, Dawn Tighe, Karin Jerpers, Sharon Warner, and Simon Julier for their contributions and support The authors would also like to thank the athletes who kindly agreed to participate in the studies and experiments. This work was funded by EPSRC grant number EP/D076943 R EFERENCES  T h e S E nsi ng f o r Sports A nd M a n a ge d E x e r c i s e SES AM E  pr oj ect  http://www.sesame.ucl.ac.uk  R  V e tt e r E   O nil l o n  M   Be rts c hi E stim a tion of a  R unne r’s S pee d  Based on Chest-belt Integrated Inertial Sensors”, in Proceedings of The Engineering of Sport 7, Springer Paris, 2008, pp. 151-159  C O DA m oti on  http://www.codamotion.com  T he X s e ns MT x Xbus kit  http://www.xsens.com  R  F e li z  E Za lam a  J Be r m e j o Pe de st r i a n  Tra c k ing using Ine rtia l Sensors”, in Proceedings of Journal of Physical gents, Vol. 3, No. 1 January 2009  J. Le e   R Melli f ont B  B u rke tt   T he us e of a S i ngl e Ine rtia l Se nsor to Identify Stride, Step, and Stance Duractions of Running Gait”, in Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport, 2009 Jun 30  Inte rna ti ona l A sso c i a t i o n  of A t hle ti c s Fe d e r a ti on 2 0 0 4 C om p e titi on  Rules 2004-2005”, rule 165, section 3.4.2, p.111  L   C h e ng H  Ta n, G  K unt ze K   Roskilly J. L o we, I  N Be z odis, S   Hailes, A. Wilson, D. G. Kerwin, “Sensing for Stride Information of Sprinters”, in Proceedings of the 7 th European Conference on Wireless Sensor Networks \(EWSN\, Coimbra, Portugal, Feb 2010  Q u a lis y s O p tica l M o tion Ca ptur e   http://www.qualisys.com  A   Me r o  P L u th ane n P  K o m i   A B i o m e c h a n i c a l Study  of  th e S p r i n t  Start”, in Scan. J. Sport Sci. 1:20-28, 1983  8 The interviewed coaches would prefer to focus on observing the sprinter’s motion directly during a sprint; the monitored parameters should be delivered as soon as a sprint is completed  L   C h e ng  H  T a n G  K u ntze  I  N. B e z odis  S. Ha il e s  D  G   Ke r w in A Wilson, “A Low-cost Accurate Speed Tracking System for Supporting Sprint Coaching”, in Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part P, Journal of Sports Engineering and Technology JSET  C h a r nw ood D y nam i c s L t d  2006  C O D A  c x1 U s e r Guide    E  C h i   I ntro duc ing We a r a b le Force S e nsor s in Ma rtia l A r ts in  Pervasive Computing Magazine, 04\(3\:47-53, July-Sep 2005  M   K r a n z   W  Spi e ssl, A  S c h m idt  D e s igning U b iqu itous C o m puting Systems for Sports Equipment”, in Proceedings of IEEE PerCom 2007 pp. 79-86  Inte rlink E l e c t r onic s F or c e Se nsi n g Re si stor I n te gr a tion G u ide a nd Evaluation Parts Catalog http://www.interlinkelectronics.com/library/media/papers/pdf/fsrguide.p df  A   B ouk e r c h e  J   F e i   V Squa r e  A n Ac c u r a te  T i m e S y n c hronisa tion Protocol for Wireless Video Sensor Networks”, in Proceedings of IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference \(Globecom\, New Orleans USA, Nov. 2008  J. Elson, L. Girod, D. Estrin, “Fine-grained Network Time Synchronisation using Reference Broadcasts”, in Proceedings of ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review, Vol. 36, Issue SI \(Winter 2002 pp. 147-163  H   C ho, J  Jung  B  C ho Y Jin  S   L e ss Y. Ba e k  P r e c i si on T i m e  Synchronisation using IEEE 1588 for Wireless Sensor Networks”, in Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering, 2009  Be z odis  I N S a l o  A a n d Ke rwi n  D 2008   A  Longitu dina l Ca s e  Study of Step Characteristics in a World Class Sprint Athlete. In: Kwon Y.-H., Shim, J., Shim, J.K. and Shin I.-S. Proceedings of the XXVI International Conference on Biomechanics in Sports. Rainbowbooks Korea: Korean Society of Sports Biomechanics & Department of Physical Education, Seoul National University, Korea. pp. 537-540  L. Cheng, G. Kuntze, H. Tan, D. Nguyen, K. Roskilly, J. Lowe, I. N Bezodis, T. Austin, S. Hailes, D. G. Kerwin, A. Wilson, D. Kalra Practical Sensing for Sprint Parameter Monitoring", in Proceedings of the 7th IEEE Sensor, Mesh and Ad Hoc Communications and Networks SECON\, Boston, Massachusetts, USA, June 2010 213 


  10     Figure 6. Surface Base Total Cost Summary   


data and process standards positively affects process costs, has been corroborated. The path coefficient for this relationship is highly significant \(p &lt;= 0.001  H3: The forecasted positive impact of a combined standard force on the quality determinant of the recruiting process has been corroborated for this sample with p &lt;= 0.001  5.1 Implications for theory  In this paper we developed a theoretical research model around the combined effect of process and data standards on business process performance in staff recruitment. Such a model has not yet been offered in human resources information systems \(HRIS research In addition, this paper provides empirical substantiation and validation of the developed hypothesis using data from a survey sent to Fortune-1,000 companies in Germany. The results show that a sensible combination of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive impact on the outcomes of the entire recruiting process. These outcomes are measured as time-to-hire costs-per-hire as well as the process quality for applicants \(customer satisfaction quality of hired candidates With these two main contributions, the paper fills a gap in existing literature and can serve as starting point for promising future research Our results were not fully able to answer how exactly both standard types should be combined to provide the positive impact. As indicated in section 2.3 we assume that neither process nor data standards are an end in themselves. Quite a high number of cases show that the introduction of process standards is more successful if accompanied by a simultaneous introduction of data standards. Some cases show that data standards tend to fail if not embedded in a process standardization context. We leave a further discussion of the operative interplay of process and data standards for further research \(compare section 5.4 In their case study research about the use of process standards in staff recruitment, von Stetten et al. [31 showed that the observed company implemented a uniform data standard and then process standards on how to recruit an employee. In this case the company was able to cut their costs by a third and reduced their timeto-hire by around 20 days from 90 to 70  5.2 Managerial implications  The most important finding of this research is that the combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process \(measured in time-to-hire, costs-per-hire and the process quality for applicant and company These empirical findings confirm the results of case study research by von Stetten et al. [31] who examined the positive influence of standardization in staff recruitment. Managers in HR and IT could benefit from this approach and enhance their efforts to standardize the corporate recruitment process. An important precondition seems to be a prior implementation of a uniform data standard before starting to standardize the process von Stetten et al. [31]. Examples of process standards could be related to the specific recruiter tasks, the channels they use to find and attract a specific applicant as well as the ways they communicate with their candidates. Several companies use standard chanProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 nels to attract candidates, such as their corporate website or an Internet job portal such as Monster.com [18 How candidates apply and companies communicate with their candidates is also becoming increasingly standardized in current staff recruitment as the candidates frequently use standardized web forms to apply and the companies use email for communication [19 Finally a rising degree of standardization in staff recruitment will lead to a new definition of recruiters tasks as one recruiter will not be responsible for performing the entire process from candidate attraction to final selection  Table 7: Overview of managerial implications Implications Combined implementation of process and data standards in staff recruitment has a positive and direct impact on the overall performance of the recruiting process Authors,[31 A uniform data standard \(for applicant relevant information standardization \([31 Standardized channels to first attract applicants and then communicate with them ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors,[18],[19 Increasing specialization and modularization of a single recruiter's activities ? as a means of process standardization ? increase the overall performance of the recruiting process \(Authors  5.3 Limitations  As with any work in a new field of research, relevant literature to build on is almost nonexistent. Following Wuellenweber et al. [37] "in standardization research determining the value of a standard has remained an open issue for decades. Looking at process standards, things seem to be even worse." Unfortunately the operationalization of "process standard" used in this paper could thus not build too much on earlier work in standardization research. As a result we focused the operationalization of prior findings of HR research As with any empirical research paper, this work has some associated limitations. We have only discussed one process to examine the combined impact of process and data standards, so the significant results might show a single example for the recruitment process. We assume there might be differences for different processes. Future research should discuss this aspect in more detail Furthermore, our survey was limited to major enterprises in Germany. Therefore our results may not be directly transferred to any other country or region In addition, our results could be affected by common method variance because we collected the data from participants at the same time using the same questionnaire [24  5.4 Further research  In this paper, we have shown that combined process and data standards have a positive impact on business process performance in terms of the individual measuring dimensions of business process time, cost and quality for our overall data sample of major German enterprises. We assume that interesting future results might be provided by looking at specific industry \(sub tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g 


tors, branches or companies of different sizes \(e.g large-scale vs. SME Building on the proposal of the "business process standardization" construct by Muenstermann and Weitzel [22], future research should try to further improve the operationalization of "process standards In this paper we measured business process performance using the three business process measurement dimensions of business process time, cost and quality It might be interesting to complement these by adding softer" dimensions, such as business process flexibility, agility or robustness This paper offers an initial understanding of the interplay between process and data standards. Moreover in our further research, we will investigate the individual and separate influence of process and data standards on process performance. Is the influence of process standardization higher than that of data standardization? Do they conflict with each other In addition we will complete two more case studies and send out a new questionnaire to Germany?s Fortune 1,000 companies that will then allow us to analyze the influence of both process and data standardization on each of the business process performance measurement dimensions \(time, cost and quality In addition, we also aim to investigate whether most firms started their standardization effort \(process and data ture \(or even thereafter pendently of major IT changes Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 6. References  1] Bagozzi, R. P. and Yi, Y. \(1988 structural equation models. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 16\(1 2] Breaugh, J. A. and Starke, M. \(2000 ployee recruitment: So many studies, so many remaining questions. Journal of Management, 26\(3 3] Brislin, R. W. \(1970 research. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 1\(3 216 4] Chin, W. W. \(1998 structural equation modeling. In Marcoulides, G. A., editor Modern Methods for Business Research, pages 295?336 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ, USA 5] Chin, W. W. \(2000 tial Least Squares &amp; PLS-Graph. Home Page. [On-line Available at: http://disc-nt.cba.uh.edu/chin/plsfaq.htm 6] Chin, W. W. and Todd, P. A. \(1995 ness, and ease of use of structural equation modeling in MIS research: a note of caution. MIS Quarterly, 19\(2 7] Davenport, T. H. and Short, J. E. \(1990 trial engineering: information technology and business process redesign. Sloan Management Review, 31\(4 8] de Vries, H. \(2006 zation. International Journal of IT Standards and Standardization Research, 4\(1 9] Eckhardt, A., Laumer, S., Koenig, W., and Weitzel, T 2008 tration, esp. Information Management, University of Frankfurt 10] Faerber, F., Keim, T., and Weitzel, T. \(2003 mated recommendation approach to personnel selection. In Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems, Tampa 11] Ferstl, O. K. and Sinz, E. J. \(1997 ness systems using the semantic object model \(SOM thodological framework, chapter Handbook on architectures of information systems. International handbook on information systems. Springer 


tion systems. Springer 12] Fomin, V. and Lyytinen, K. \(2000 cake before cutting it into pieces: Alice in Wonderland or radio engineers' gang in the Nordic countries? IGI Publishing, Hershey, PA, USA 13] Fornell, C. and Larcker, D. F. \(1981 tural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement errors. Journal of Marketing Research, 18\(1 50 14] Frank, F. D., Finnegan, R. P., and Taylor, C. R. \(2004 The race for talent: retaining and engaging workers in the 21st century. Human Resource Planning, 27\(3 15] Gefen, D., Straub, D. W., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2000 Structural equation modeling and regression: Guidelines for research practice. Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 4\(7 16] Herwig, V. \(2006 an service-oriented architecture. In Proc. IEEE Services Computing Workshops SCW '06, pages 156?164 17] ISO, T. \(1996 related activities ? General vocabulary". International Organisation for Standardization / International Electrotechnical Commission, Geneva, 7th edition 18] Keim, T. and Weitzel, T. \(2006 professionals: An empirical analysis of employer and job seeker behavior on the IT labor market. Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 19] Laumer, S., Eckhardt, A., and Trunk, N. \(2008 your parents say? ? analyzing it adoption influencing factors for full and under age applicants. forthcoming in Information Systems Frontiers 20] Luftman, J., Kempaiah, R., and Nash, E. \(2006 issues for it executives 2005. MIS Quarterly Executive 5\(2 21] Mooney, J. G., Gurbaxani, V., and Kraemer, K. L 1996 ness value of information technology. SIGMIS Database 27\(2 22] Muenstermann, B. and Weitzel, T. \(2008 process standards? Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Information Resources Management \(ConfIRM 2008 23] National Institute of Standards and Technology \(1996 Electronic data interchange \(EDI Information Processing Standards Publications 24] Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., Lee, J. Y., and Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003 research: A critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88:879?903 25] Porter, M. E. \(1985 niques for analyzing industries and competitors. Free Press New York 26] Ramakumar, A. and Cooper, B. \(2004 dization proves profitable. Quality, 43\(2 27] Riemenschneider, C. K., Moore, J. E., and Armstrong D. \(2008 Renewed Demand for IT Workers, European Journal of Information Systems \(EJIS 28] Ross, J. W. \(2003 competency: learning in stages. MIS Quarterly Executive 2\(1 29] Rossi, B., Russo, B., and Succi, G. \(2008 about the diffusion of data standards inside European public organizations. 3rd International Conference on Information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 and Communication Technologies: From Theory to Applications, 2008. ICTTA 2008, 1?6 30] S  nchez-Rodr  guez, C., Hemsworth, D., Mart  nezLorente, n. R., and Clavel, J. G. \(2006 on the impact of standardization of materials and purchasing procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply 


procedures on purchasing and business performance. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 11\(1 31] Stetten, A. v., Muenstermann, B., Eckhardt, A., and Laumer, S. \(2008 value of business process standardization - a case study approach. Proceedings of the 14th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2008 32] Straub, D., Gefen, D., and Boudreau, M.-C. \(2004 ISWorld quantitative, positivist research methods website On-line]. Available at: http://dstraub.cis.gsu.edu:88/quant 33] Ungan, M. C. \(2006 documentation. Business Process Management Journal 12\(2 34] Venkatesh, V. \(2006 on future directions for research on individual-level technology adoption with a focus on decision making. Decision Sciences, 37\(22 35] Vinzi, V. E., Lauro, C., and Tenenhaus, M. \(2003 Path Modelling. DMS 36] Wigand, R. T., Steinfield, C. W., and Markus, M. L 2005 try structure outcomes: The case of the U.S. home mortgage industry. Journal of Management Information Systems 22\(2 37] Wuellenweber, K., Beimborn, D., Weitzel, T., and Koenig, W. \(2008 business process outsourcing success. Information Systems Frontiers, 10\(2  7. Appendix  Table 8: Cross loadings Proc. Cost Data Stand Proc Stand Proc Qual Stand Inter Proc Time Process Standards \(1 Process Standards \(2 Process Standards \(3 Process Standards \(4 Process Standards \(5 Process Standards \(6 Data Standards \(1 Data Standards \(2 Data Standards \(3 Data Standards \(4 Data Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(1 Combined P&amp;D 0.4504 0.9762 0.6555 0.4436 0.8575 0.5252 Standards \(2 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(3 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(4 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(5 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(6 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(7 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(8 Combined P&amp;D 


Standards \(9 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(10 Combined P&amp;D Standards \(11 Business Process Time \(1 Business Process Time \(2 Business Process Time \(3 Business Process Cost 1 Business Process Cost 2 Business Process Cost 3 Business Process Cost 4 Business Process Quality \(1 Business Process Quality \(2 Business Process Quality \(3  Table 9: Indicators Indicator Description Process-Time-1 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and the posting of the job ad Process-Time-2 We have reduced the time between the incoming applications and the transmitted notice of arrival for the respective applicant Process-Time-3 We have reduced the time between the identification of a vacancy and its fill Process-Cost-1 We were able to reduce the costs for candidate attraction Process-Cost-2 We were able to reduce the costs for the response management with the recruiting process Process-Cost-3 We were able to reduce the costs for the internal applicant tracking Process-Cost-4 We were able to reduce the costs per tracked application Process-Quality-1 We were able to enhance the overall applicant quality Process-Quality-2 We were able to enhance the quality of applicants' data Process-Quality-3 We were able to enhance the proportion of top candidates Process-Quality-4 Our applicants are very satisfied with our offer of information Process-Stand.-1 We have a well-regulated process cycle for applicant tracking in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-2 We have established an efficient organized process in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-3 We have established highly standardized procedures in our staff recruitment Process-Stand.-4 We have documented our actions to a great extent Process-Stand.-5 We have established a fixed procedure for the collaboration between HR and the operating departments Process-Stand.-5 We already work with process standards in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-1 We already use a data standard in our staff recruitment Data-Stand-2 I expect that we will use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-3 We plan to use a data standard in staff recruitment in the future as well Data-Stand-4 A uniform data standard is more important in our company as process standards Data-Stand-5 We use the same data standard as our competitors  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


