204 
Abstract 
Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that helps users reach to all digital data, such as multimedia files. So, this leads to plagiarization, violation of 
BENPro: A Blinding Protection Method in Digital Right Management Kullapat Theera-angkananon Department of Mathematics Faculty of Science Chulalongkorn University Bangkok, 10330, Thailand kullapat.t@student.chula.ac.th Pattarasinee Bhattarakosol Department of Mathematics Faculty of Science Chulalongkorn University Bangkok, 10330, Thailand Pattarasinee.b@chula.ac.th 
copyrights and data over the Internet.  Thus, the digital intellectual property becomes a big issue of the Internet sharing system.  Various techniques have been proposed to protect these violations; unfortu 
nately, they became the hackers\220 stimuli in 
breaking the protection mechanisms.  Therefore, this paper proposes a protection mechanism, Byte Encoding Protection BENPro\, for preventing an audio file, such as mp3 format from copying and distributing by illegal distributors. The aim of this paper is that the protection mechanism cannot be recognized from hackers and users.  The result of this experiment indicates 
that most users believe that the defects occur from the transfer mechanism rather than the protection mechanism Thus, the protection of IP is maintained as expected 
I I NTRODUCTION It is an undeniable fact that the Internet is the biggest valuable resource of people around the world to obtain data or information as needed because it is the place to post and pickup information in various formats, such as documentations, multimedia, and audio, via services of the Internet Service Providers \(ISP 
Keywords-byte encoding; digita l right management; encoding technique; intellectual property; multimedia protection 
Thus, it is a responsibility of ISPs to protect this information Therefore, every ISP must have a suitable policy and mechanism to manage and protect in a user\220s hard dis 
this information might be illegally duplicated and easily infringed the copyright of owners From the Internet characteristics, the sharing system is a 
their customers\220 information; otherwise 
sharing system over the Internet is that the limitation of the sharing has been defined but it is hardly to be operated especially when a digital file has been downloaded and stored 
part of users\220 expectation.  However, one serious issue for the 
k 
Once the digital file is recorded in the 
hard disk, there is no protection and users can distribute unlawfully and unlimitedly The downloaded file can be used independently by users or it can be distributed as an element in the sharing system among friends or partners.  Nevertheless, most of these distributions break the copyrights law since the copyrights are always applied to the person who is authorized for the download process only This leads to the significant issue when IP transgression occurs in the business world since all digital media always have values.  Although ISPs might have responsible for external intrusion protection, the business organization must have digital right management \(DRM 
mechanism to protect their own files before distributing to their customers Presently, the infringement of musical file types, especially mp3 and .mp4, widely occurs over the Internet, and it cannot be easily prevented. Hence, there are many researches and developments of new techniques and methods to protect these file types. One of the existing methods to manage and restrict the access right to a file for ea ch user is implementing the member system.  Unfortunately, the protection cannot cover when members download files according to their rights; then distribute it without permission Although various techniques and methods have been proposed and installed in the real world, users of these 
multimedia files can detect these protections.  Thus, the protection mechanism becomes a stimulus for users who are also hackers because of the challenge in breaking the prevention mechanism.  As a consequence, the implementation of these mechanisms should be blinded from these users as much as possible Referring to the problems mentioned above, this paper presents a mechanism to protect the downloaded file from any faithless distributors under the objective of eliminating hackers 
220 
motivation.  The proposed mechanism will not only be obviously recognized as the blocking of the IP protection but also guarantee that users cannot use and distribute without 
authorization from the company The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.  In Section 2, some related works ar e drawn. Section 3 described the protection mechanism proposed in this paper while the implementation and experimental results are explained in Section 4 The last two sections are Section 5 and Section 6 where the discussion and conclusions of this work are elaborated respectively 533 


proposed the \215family domain\216 concepts.  Additionally, in the which causes the poor quality of the audio by adding an audible removable watermark in a part of the audio signal. The second method is the 215perceptible watermar determines whether it is a legal DRM by verifying the target user and the license to find permission. The second step is the conversion from the source DRM content to the target DRM content.  The conversion means that the specific DRM content is converted into the neutral DRM content format.  This content format provides the secure structur e to protect the DRM data which offers beneficial for providers an d users; providers can extend their service areas without opening their secret and users can freely enjoy using audio content without considering that DRM system is used on their audio player Although various methods mentioned above such as integration of DRM and fingerprinting in o v a ble watermarking in h a v e been propos ed, m o s t of t h e m  are complicated and might not be practical.  Moreover, significant issues in these researches ar e noticeable methods that users may recognize the protection of these files, especially audio files Unfortunately, this recognition is a motivation for some users who love challenging in breaking the protection mechanism.  Therefore, the destruction of the protection rules begins.  According to this moti vation, this paper proposes a mechanism that most users hardly realize as the protection mechanism Therefore, the IP protection is maintained III P ROTECION M ECHANISMS II R ELATED W ORKS Digital right management, or DRM, is known as a set of technologies used by publishers to protect all digital media from unauthenticated accesses in order to maintain intellectual property that are distributed over the Internet or digital world Currently, IP protection is a serious issue for any business companies who provide services in all kinds of digital media The digital protection is the main concern of every business multimedia distributors since it is difficult to control media after storing into a storage device, such as a hard disk, or a CD, or distributed over the Intern h u s th e D R M i s  an important subject of all digital media servers Various techniques have been proposed to manage different kinds of digital media.  The practical method was proposed in the year 2004 by Louma and Vahtera [2 th is paper stated that multiple agreements and the negotiations among actors must be con cluded and signed before performing any protections and management processes However, these agreements are ideal in the real world since users may break the agreement without intention According to Jonker and Linnartz [3 ere are t w o  fundamental concepts to secure these digital resources from unauthorized access.  The first method is to encrypt content of these resources using a certified mechanism and the private key concept.  The other alternative method is to store these contents behind a specific device, such as firewall, including access keys. Although encryption methods and implementing of protection are applied when storing multimedia contents into any media, these protections exclude the situation that the media is the Internet channel The research of ed a broadcas t en cr y p tio n method which enables media or broadcast-based distribution possible for any low-cost devices.  Therefore, the media can be protected and distributed over the Internet easily to any consumers.  Moreover, this conc ept is applied to the consumer products, such as DVD-audio players and DVD recorders The similar objective is applied to the research of [5 w h o DRM\220s content to other DRM\220s content. They provide the k k the \215Authorized Domain\216 technique is proposed by conversion process which is separated into two steps.  The first step is mutual authentication that uses a secret key for digital right management control Since DRM is a significant factor related to the business operations, so [10 pr opos ed a s c h e m e t h at ca n conv ert on e the \215 216 that year 2004 215imperceptible watermar A System Architecture In this research, the member system of audio files downloading is applied as a fundamental protection mechanism for the digital right management over the Internet However, in order to fortify the IP of digital media over the Internet, the mechanism called Byte Encoding Protection BENPro\ proposed after the media has been downloaded from a provider.  This proposed system of the digital media provider consists of two subsystems.  The first subsystem is responsible for digital media encoding, while the second subsystem is the digital media access controller.  Fig. 1 shows the BENPro system architectur e of the protecting technique 534 [6 Moreover, the integration between the digital right management and fingerprinting system was proposed by [7 the year 2006.  This technique embedded a fingerprinting code generated from a fingerprinting server into the audio content this fingerprint code must be verified when a client requests the file One general but efficient method is the use of the watermark technology.  This technology aims to protect the digital media contents. It gives the contents available freely for download as a preview.  Thus, when this technique is applied to the multimedia files, it has to be modified as proposed by [8   8 th e prop osed techn i qu e is  embedded the removable watermark into the audio files in the way that causes the audio files to be in the lower quality Based on the similar objective, [9 posed  an  unconventionally invertible perceptible watermarking method based on DCT \(Discrete cosine tr ansform\ coefficients. This mechanism is applied to protect the audio content by two methods. The first method is the 216 216 


ADMP ADMP  ADMP Protected audio file Encoding Module Generally, every multimedia file contains fields to inform the file format for media players.  Thus, changing the file content by switching among bytes as shown in Fig.2 will change the values of these mean ing fields Therefore, when the files are encoded and the original formats have been changed according to the encoding technique, these files cannot be run smoothly or be recognized by any media players Although the contents are changed, it cannot guarantee that hackers cannot swap them back to normal.  So, the second module, the embedding module, in the APS is applied extracted n-byte block                 B Audio Preparation System \(APS Encoding module Extraction module ExtrcM byte block Original MP3 Encoded audio file This system is implemented to prepare the digital files before they are retrieved or accessed by users over the Internet.  Moreover, under the main objective, these files must not be able to run when it was distributed to an unauthorized person by authorized download.  Therefore, the APS consists of two important modules: the encoding module, and the embedding module Details of these modules are elaborated as follows It is necessary that before all digital media are distributed over the Internet the providers must encode these files using some available techniques.  One interesting encoding technique is the swapping bytes among contents of the file, as shown in Fig.2 The encoding algor ithm is shown in Fig.3 Figure 4 Embedding mechanism 535 Figure 2 Encoding technique  n n byte block Swap Audio file Encoded MP3 Byte Encoding Protection BENPro System Embedding module PADB Completed audio file Screen manipulation Decoding and Integrating module DIM Encoded Partial Audio file Figure 3 Encoding algorithm block bytes as same as the swapping bytes, see Fig. 4 Partial audio content Stored in Partial audio database This module is implemented to serve the objective that the downloaded files must not be run by an unauthorized person under an authorized download.  The concept of this module is based on a security protection mechanism, byte stuffing of the transferred packet over a network.  Nevertheless, the set of stuffing bytes in this research is an executable file, named as ADditional Music Player \(ADMP\.  This ADMP will be partitioned in Embedding Module n Figure 1 BENPro Protecting system architecture for audio files According to Fig. 1, the audi o providers must start their services by passing all audio files to the Audio Preparation System \(APS\ore broadcasting through the Internet.  In this system, the audio files are encoded and embedded with an executable file.  Therefore, this process is the first step of the protection mechanism because users will obtain the encoding file when requested the access Since the BENPro mechanism is relied on the member system, all members must install the Digital Media Access Controller \(DMAC\f it is th e media player of the BENPro system.  The system is responsible for decoding and playing the requested audio file downloaded from the Internet Moreover, this system will delete the necessary information that DMAC uses to play the audio after the play is terminated Therefore, the functions of DMAC are the second protection step for all audio providers Details of all these systems, APS and DMAC, are described as follows Audio Preparation System APS Digital Media Access Controller DMAC 


ExtrcM C.    Digital Media Access Controller \(DMAC after the membership is assigne d and it consists of 3 important modules.  The first part is the extraction module \(ExtrcM where the ADMP is re-assembled and temporary saved in the Decoding and Integrating Module \(DIM How to Play the File This module is an executable file that runs when users call for a play.  The DMAC will start this ExtrcM after the download of the selected audio finished and the encoded audio is stored in a temporary spac e The ExtrcM will extract the ADMP out from the content of the audio file, remaining only the pure encoded content; these output files will be stored in This module is an executable file to re-organize the audio file content, including re-assembly the partial audio file from the server.  In the process of re-organization, all swapped contents from the encoding process will be restored back to their original locations.  However, this decoded file cannot be accessed by any media players until it integrates with the remaining part from the server site Within this module while the content is decoding, the remaining contents from the server site of the audio provider are put back to their original locations.  Thus, after finishing the process of the DIM, the au dio file is ready to play The algorithm of the DIM is drawn as Fig. 6  play the selected audio file as a background process without The second part is the decoding the temporary space in the user\220s hard dis After passing the process of DI M, the audio player of this system obtained from the extraction of the In order to control the play, users can press a command icon on the user interface. Once an icon is pressed, the command to manipulate the play is sent to the ADMP, and then ADMP executes the command as requested Nevertheless, if the exit command is pressed, all files in the temporary storage such as the ADMP, the completed audio 536 Figure 5 Embedded algorithm The ADMP will Figure 6.  The Decoding and Integrating Algorithm Extraction Module \(ExtrcM The second part of BENPro is the most important part after the audio file was encoded.  The execution of this system starts when users select an au dio content with permission through the DMAC interface.  Then, the downloading mechanism starts, the encoding audio is sent to the user system, called as a client This encoding audio is extracted to obtain the ADMP as a back-end process by the DMAC system.  Then, the ADMP performs its task to play the audio files as requested while the network connection is available Additionally, all clients can control the play through the DMAC interface as shown in Fig.6, as described in Section 4 According to the functions of the DMAC mentioned above, this system The mechanism of this module is that the audio file will be segmented into small pieces as shown in Fig. 4.  However, the total amount of the segments will be equal to the size of the ADMP executable file which will be embedded into the same locations of all segmented contents.  After finishing the segmentation, these segments are stored in the partial audio database \(PADB\.  These parts of the audio files are called by the ADMP whenever users request for accessing the file under a control of the second system, DMAC. The embedded algorithm is shown in Fig.5 k k and integrating module \(DIM\; this module will re-organized the encoded audio file to be similar to the original one Moreover it is responsible for integrating the remaining part of the requested audio file to the decoded content.  Thus, the final outcome from the process of the DIM is the original audio file that is ready to be played.  Details of these modules are described as follows must be installed in the user\220s computer user\220s interference the ADMP will run under the control of users via the user interface.  The user interface sub-module is the interface that interacts with users when users want to control the play, such as play, pause, and stop.  Whenev er the user requests a play through the interface module, the request is sent to the ADMP to run the audio file obtained from the DIM process Nevertheless, this audio file will be erased when the user exits the playing mode user\220s hard dis  


Audio types Other audio players Original Audio files the audio services are very popular over the Internet the IP protection becomes a serious issue for all audio providers.  Although many methods have been proposed and implemented, especially the encryption technique, these methods cannot protect the illegal usage from unauthorized users after legal downloaded was granted.  Moreover, these protection mechanisms are obviously detected by users 537 The second step is to test the presentation quality by 170 samples, using BENPro and other audio players. The results are shown in Table I. The 30 audio files after passing the encoding mechanism are run with the DMAC system of BENPro, the rating score is the same as all 30 original files running by other audio players However, if the encoding audio files from the APS are run on other audio players, the presentation quality is unsmooth and vary annoying to all listeners.  Moreover, the test is also performed in the situation that a downloaded audio file was distributed to other users The evaluation score indicates that the illegal distribution of this file running by other audio players causes poor presentation in an unacceptable rate.  Nevertheless, only 10 of these samples believed that the audio files were encrypted or protected.  The majority of this sample group, about 80 believes that the defect is an effect from the transfer mechanism rather than the protection mechanism Furthermore, more than 80% decide to delete and reload the files rather than finding the crac k software to fix the problem V D ISCUSSION According to the high demand in digital media over the Internet, especially audio and video files, the DRM to protect IP becomes an important role in the digital businesses Various researches are proposed and implemented to protect these media.  One popular and acceptable method is the implementation of a member system where all agreements are signed among providers and clients based on the concept of   Mo reo v er, m o st protectio n methods applied encryption techniques to protect the files from unauthorized accesses    A n ot h e r tech n i qu e th at is ap plied to th e dig ital documents is the use of the watermark mechanism However, these methods mentioned above are complicated and cannot protect the digital files from hackers or illegal distributers after the files were legally downloaded.  In addition, prohibition in accessin g the files that is obviously noticed or informed to clients is a good simulator to all hackers. Therefore, these in terdiction mechanisms cannot complete the mission Considering the BENPro technique, the protection mechanism applies a simple shifting and stuffing bytes of the audio contents with an executable file.  Additionally, some part of the audio file is extracted and stored in the database of the audio provider.  So, although the audio files were unfaithfully distributed by some authorized users, these files cannot be played by any audio player as expected Thus, the audio files are protected because so me part of the audio in the PADB still needs the authority checking when users request the play The result of the test indicates that after downloading the files and running it by other audio players, most users hardly realize the shield mechanism.  This is because all downloaded files that run by other audio players can play without satisfaction and correction.  Thus, the evidence leads to indicate the defense mechanism of these digital files is unclear to hackers.  Therefore, the mo tivation in illegally cracking the files is low comparing to other implementing methods VI C ONCLUSION Since The first step of the test is performed by developers.  The results from testing 30 audio files indicate that when the encoded audio file is accessed by the DMAC, the quality of the voice is the same as the original file.  Unlikely to the play with the general audio players, the presentation quality of the general existing methods is low and unsmooth TABLE I E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS  file, and the partial audio file will be eliminated.  Thus, users cannot perform any illegal distribution with or without intention IV I MPLEMENTATION A ND E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS The BENPro system was implemented using a common language, Visual basic .NET, on the Microsoft Window XP platform.  After finishing the implementation, the system was tested by users in various academic backgrounds from Bachelors to higher degree. Fig. 7 shows the interface of digital media access controller program Since the objective of this research is to implement a protection technique that users cannot recognize, the testing indicators are the quality of sound evaluated by a sample group, and number of users in the samples who has curiosity in the IP protection mechanism.  The sample group, 170 persons, consists of various academic backgrounds which are computer technicians and non-technicians.  Moreover, 30 audio files were tested Smooth Smooth Smooth Unsmooth and annoying Experimental Results Presentation Quality BENPro Audio files after passing encoding mechanism Figure 7 Digital Media Access Controller Program 


Proceedings of the 8 th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, pp. 2180-2183, February, 2006 8 M  nt DRM Content Formats,\216 Proceedings of the International 215A DRM Security Architecture for Home Networ Y. Jeong, J. Kim, and Watermar rd ACM workshop on Digital rights management, pp. 27 vol.13\(4\, pp 1 J.P. Linnartz, \215Digital Right Management i V.K., \215Perceptible Au K.S. Yoon, \215The System Integration of DRM and Fingerprinting,\216 ing for Digital Right Management Control,\216 Proceedings of 216 Proceedings of 216 Proceedings of the especially hackers.  Thus, they are strong stimuli with high challenge for hackers This paper proposes the BENPro mechanism which is a simple protection method.  Nevertheless, this mechanism can prevent the unlawful usages of unauthorized users by storing some part of the audio files at the PADB; this part of the audio will be retrieved and merged to the rest of the file at the client when the audio was accessed through the ADMP functions only.  In addition, the partial audio file that is retrieved by users will be able to play unclearly and unsmooth by general audio players.  Consequently, the hacking motivation will be decreased Therefore, the objective of the IP media protection is satisfied and maintained A CKNOWLEDGMENT This research is supported by the Center for Ethics of Science and Technology, Chulalongkorn University, and The Commission on Higher Education R EFERENCES 1  M. S t in i M. M a uv e   a nd F  H  P  F itz e k  N. Cvejic and T dio 91 March 2004 4 J. L o tsp i e c h  S N u sse r, an d  205 205 216 Differe Proceedings of the 37th Annual Hawaii International Conference on the System Sciences, vol.1, pp.1-10, February 2004 3 W   J o nke r   an d Current and emerging requirements for digital rights management systems through examination of business networks Rights Management Using Broadcase Encryption L\005ytynoja ing,\216 n Consumer Electronics Products the 4 th ACM Workshop on Digital Rights Management, pp.151-158 October 2004 7 L e e   an d  the 7 th International Conference on Information, Communications and Signal Processing, pp. 1-5, December 2009 1 6, October-December 2006 2 L u o ma a n d  F. Pestoni, \215Anonymous Trust: Digital Seppanen, \215Audio Protection with removable watermar 215Digital Ownership: From Content Consumers to Owners and Traders,\216 IEEE Multimedia IEEE, vol. 92\(6\, pp. 898-909, June 2004 5 T  S. M e sse rg e s an d   216 IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, pp. 82 E. A. Dabbish, \215Digital rights management in a 3G mobile phone and beyond.\216 Proceedings of the 3 K. Yoon, \215Audio DRM Conversion between k k k k Dutta M.K., Gupta P., and Patha Proceedings of the 6 th International Conference on Communications & Signal Processing, pp. 1-4 December 2007 9  Conference on Consumer Electronics, Digest of Technical Papers, pp. 12, January 2008 538  38, October 2003 6  B. C. P o pe s c u, B  Cr is po A  S  T a nenb au m   a nd F   L  A  J  K a m pe r m a n   H. Vahtera, \215 


  lookup mechanism applies the CSA approach by proceeding along the same lines as Figures 3 and 4 to determine whether this mechanism is trusted  3.5. The non-repudiation security attribute  Non-repudiation of data transmission requires that neither the sender nor the recipient of the data can later refute their participation in the transaction Non-repudiation of changes to a dataset requires that the means for authentication of changes cannot later be refuted For the purposes of this discussion we treat data change as a special case of data transmission, where receipt of the data transmission includes making and logging the requested change to the dataset. To verify non-repudiation, one must examine the net effects on the control data related to non-repudiation. The requirements for every data transmission that is subject to non-repudiation are as follows   Trusted authorization \(subsection 3.3\ always used for sender, receiver, and the scope of any data changed or transmitted. Note that this requirement includes a requirement for trusted data transmission, trusted authentication of users and trusted authorization of users and processes for the specific data scope   Trusted binding is used to bind the sender to the data sent and to bind the receiver to data received   The authorization, binding, and data transmission are handled as a single atomic operation within the boundary of the authorized secure process   A trusted mechanism is always used to provide traceability and audit. This trusted mechanism ensures data persistence of the audit data so the means of authentication and the data transmission cannot later be refuted   Every data transmission is preceded by an absolute definition of the data and identification that binds the data to the sender   Every data receipt is preceded by an absolute definition of the data and identification that binds the data to the recipient   No other mechanism outside the trusted mechanisms sets the value of any of the control data that indicates whether each of the trusted mechanisms executed correctly or the value of any of the control data generated by the trusted mechanisms   If any of the above requirements or mechanisms fails, non-repudiation fails Analysis of the authorization mechanism was discussed in the previous subsection. Analysis of the binding mechanism and the traceability and audit mechanism applies the CSA approach by proceeding along the same lines as Figures 3 and 4 to determine whether each of these mechanisms is trusted  3.6. The confidentiality security attribute  Confidential data access or confidential data transmission requires that unauthorized disclosure of one or more specific data items will not occur  Confidentiality is often described in terms of a security policy that specifies the required strength of the mechanisms that ensure that the data cannot be accessed outside the system. For example, the security policy may require verification that approved encryption mechanisms are used for the output. To verify confidentiality, one must examine the net effects on the control data related to confidentiality The requirements for confidentiality are as follows   A trusted non-repudiation mechanism subsection 3.5\ is always used to process requests for confidential data access and confidential data transmission.  Note that this requirement includes a requirement for trusted data transmission, trusted authentication of users and processes, and trusted authorization of users and processes for the particular data scope   A trusted mechanism is always used to ensure that the data cannot be read outside the system   No other mechanism outside the trusted mechanisms sets the value of any of the control data that indicates whether each of the trusted mechanisms executed correctly or the value of any of the control data set by the trusted mechanisms   If any of the above requirements or mechanisms fails, the request for confidential data access or confidential data transmission fails Analysis of the non-repudiation mechanism was discussed in the previous subsection. Analysis of the data access mechanism applies the CSA approach by proceeding along the same lines as Figures 3 and 4 to determine whether this mechanism is trusted  3.7. The privacy security attribute  Privacy requires that an individual has defined control over how his/her information will be disclosed. To verify privacy, one must examine the net effects on the control data related to privacy The requirements for privacy are as follows Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


    A trusted confidentiality mechanism subsection 3.6\ is always used for all accesses of a user s personal information Note that this requirement includes a requirement for trusted data transmission trusted authentication of users and processes, trusted authorization of users and processes for the specific data scope, and trusted non-repudiation for access to a user s personal information   All access to a user s personal information satisfies an existing privacy and confidentiality policy that includes control data that defines the scope of access for each user   A trusted non-repudiation mechanism subsection 3.4\ is used for all changes to the control data that defines the scope of access for each user. Note that this requirement includes a requirement for trusted data transmission, trusted authentication of users and processes and scope of data   No other mechanism outside the trusted mechanisms sets the value of any of the control data that indicates whether each of the trusted mechanisms executed correctly or the value of any data set by the trusted mechanisms   If any of the above requirements or mechanisms fails, the request for confidential data access or confidential data transmission fails Analysis of the confidentiality and nonrepudiation mechanisms was discussed in previous subsections. Analysis of the access mechanism applies the CSA approach by proceeding along the same lines as Figures 3 and 4 to determine whether this mechanism is trusted  3.8 The integrity security attribute  Integrity requires that authorized changes are allowed, changes must be detected and tracked, and changes must be limited to a specific scope. Integrity is defined as a property of the object, not of a mission. To verify integrity, one must examine the net effects on the control data related to integrity. That is, one must be able to: isolate the object, isolate all the behaviors that can modi fy the object, detect any modifications to the data, and ensure that all transformations of the data across the object are within the pre-defined allowable subset The requirements for integrity are as follows   A security policy exists that describes the scope of allowed changes as an invariance function: certain data transformations must hold; others must never hold   If the security policy data is changed to remove any element from the allowable subset, integrity of the data fails   A trusted non-repudiation mechanism subsection 3.4\ always used for changes to data and changes to policy to ensure that all changes to the security policy and changes to data are performed using a trusted non-repudiation mechanism. Note that this requirement includes a requirement for trusted data transmission, trusted authentication of users and processes trusted authorization of users and processes for the specific data scope, and trusted nonrepudiation for changes to the data. Every authorization for data changes must be restricted to the allowable subset as defined in the security policy   No other mechanism outside the trusted mechanisms sets the value of any of the control data that indicates whether each of the trusted mechanisms executed correctly or the value of the control data set by any of the trusted mechanisms   If any of the above requirements or mechanisms fails, integrity of the data fails Analysis of the non-repudiation mechanism was discussed in a previous subsection. Analysis of the data change mechanism applies the CSA approach by proceeding along the same lines as Figures 3 and 4 to determine whether this mechanism is trusted  3.9. The availability security attribute Availability requires that a resource is usable during a given time period, despite attacks or failures. To verify availability, one must examine the net effects on the control data related to availability  To avoid having to consider temporal properties, one can specify non-availability rather than availability i.e., specify under what conditions the program s behavior database do not apply.\veness properties are translated to the behavioral characteristics that are evident when the system is actually available Specific behaviors associated with non-availability due to denial of service must also be specified  4. Miniature illustration of CSA with FX  Consider the screen image of behavior generated by the CERT  Function Extraction for Malicious Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  Code \(FX/MC\pe, as shown in Figure 5. This system is under development by CERT  to compute the behavior of malicious code expressed in Intel assembly language. FX/MC produces the net behavior of programs in terms of disjoint conditional concurrent assignment statements. That is, each case of behavior is expressed by a condition and a set of non-procedural assignments that define the final values of registers, flags, and memory locations on exit from an assembly language program This notional example illustrates application of the CSA approach to determine whether a security requirement is satisfied. Suppose that the specification of requirements for a security attribute includes a constraint that the value of the second argument to each call to function XXX must not be equal to 4. A constraint such as this, expressed in terms of concrete data operations and values, could be part of the requirements specification for any of the security attributes discussed above   A B A B  Figure 5 Computed behavior  Imagine that the behavior of Figure 5 defines the behavior of a fragment of code that executes immediately before the program calls function XXX with the second argument equal to the value stored in register EAX. The computed behavior highlighted as section A is the behavior with respect to register values for the condition 1 & EAX\ == 0 his condition means if the value of register EAX at the beginning of this fragment of code is even As shown on the figure, if this condition is true, the value of register EAX after executing this fragment of code is equal to the initial value of register ECX and therefore the value of the second argument to function XXX will be the initial value of register ECX. In contrast, the computed behavior highlighted as section B is the behavior with respect to register values for the condition 1 & EAX\ != 0 his condition means if the initial value of register EAX is odd As shown on the figure, if this condition is true, the value of register EAX is unchanged and therefore the value of the second argument to function XXX will be the initial value of register EAX. Thus, the security constraint is not satisfied because, under either of these conditions, it is not possible to certify that the value of the second argument will never be equal to 4 Note that, using FX technology, this analysis can take place in seconds through computational automation, thereby eliminating the need to study and understand the code by manual means  5. Implications  The behavioral requirements for security attributes provided in the previous section are consistent with the general descriptions of the eight security dimensions \(access control, authentication non-repudiation, data confidentiality, communication flow security, data integrity, availability, and privacy\ contained in standard ISO/IEDC 180282 Information Technology - Security Techniques - IT Network Security - Part 2: Network Security Architecture  d orig i n a ll y prov ided in t h e Bell  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  Labs Security Framework [6  W e e x p e c t t h a t t h e CSA approach to security attribute analysis will be very supportive of work to address the challenges of security management and approaches to secure an enterprise and regulatory mandates \(Discussions of the challenges of security management, are provided in  Advantages of the CSA approach include   A rigorous method is used to specify security attributes in terms of the actual behavior of code and to verify that the code being evaluated is correct with respect to security attributes   The specified security behaviors can provide requirements for the security architecture   Traceability capabilities can be defined and verified outside of the code being evaluated   Vulnerabilities can be well understood, making it easier to address evolution of code, environment use, and users CSA technology can address specification of security attributes of systems before they are built specification and evaluation of security attributes of acquired software, verification of the as-built security attributes of systems, and real-time evaluation of security attributes during system operation It should also be possibl e to verify that the behavioral characteristics relating to security properties are consistent with a global security policy e.g., running the code in the context of a system with an expressed security policy\. The use of a system such as FX to perform this level of validation would require a behavioral specification of the global security policy in terms of system behavior, which could then be automatically checked against program behavior. As behavioral patterns scale through different layers of abstraction, high-level security behaviors can be expressed as a straight-forward composition of program behavior  6. Open Questions  Behavioral requirements for concurrency and parallel system issues must be addressed. In addition because computational security attributes and function extraction are emerging technologies, there has been limited experience in applying the technology to large systems. The computational effort involved in analyzing large, complex components and in analyzing large numbers of component compositions to yield a system security specification remains to be studied. However, it is clear that the CSA approach can be effective in addressing state space explosion while yielding complete, correct answers 7. Acknowledgement  CERT is a registered trademark and service mark of Carnegie Mellon University  8. References  1 R.W Co ll in s, A  R. Hev n er G  H. W a lto n  R.C. L i n g er The impacts of function extraction technology on program comprehension: A controlled experiment  Information and Software Technology 50\(2008\ 1165-1179.  Elsevier, 2008  2 A  K   G upta  U  Cha n d r a s he k h a r S. Sa bnis  a nd F  A   Bastry Building Secure Products and Solutions Bell Labs Technical Journal, 12\(3\23-38. Wiley Periodicals Inc. 2007  3 Inte rna ti ona l Org a niz a tion f o r Sta nda rdiz a tion a n d  International Electrotechnical Commission Information Technology - Security Techniques - IT Network Security Part 2: Network Security Architecture, ISO/IEC 18028-2  Feb. 2006   R L i n g er M   P l eszko c h   L  Bu rn s A  Hevn er  G   Walton Next generation software engineering: Function extraction for the computation of software behavior Proceedings of the 40 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Hawaii. IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA 2007  5 R  L i ng e r S. P r ow e ll, R  B a rthol om ew  L  B u rns  T   Daly Funcation extraction: automated behavior computation for aerospace software verification and certification  Proceedings of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \(AIAA\otech & Aerospace 2007 Conference California. IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA.  May 2007  6 A  R. Mc G e e, S.R. V a sired d y C. X i e, D.D  Picklesimer, U. Chandrashekhar, and S.H. Richman A Framework for Ensuring Network Security  Bell Labs Technical Journal 8\(4\ges 7-27. Wiley Periodicals, Inc 2004  7 M Ple s z k oc h a nd R  L i ng e r  Improving Network System Security with Function Extraction Technology for Automated Calculation of Program Behavior Proceedings of 37th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Hawaii, January, 2004, IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, CA, 2004   S  S a bn i s  U Ch and r ash e kh ar an d F  Bast ry   Challenges of Securing an Enterprise and Meeting Regulatory Mandates P roceedings of the 12 th  International Telecommunications Network Strategy and Planning Symposium, 2006. NETWORKS 2006 Nov. 2006 pages 1-6. IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos CA, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


selection is dominated by O   C k  2   Finally the space requirement is O  MAX  C k  2    Since the size of a community is small both the time and space are also small VII E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS We now evaluate the performance of our algorithm for object connection discovery We run all experiments on an AMD Opteron 248 with 1GB RAM running Linux 64-bit We use the DBLP co-authorship dataset modeled as a graph The graph has approximate ly 316K nodes and 1,834K edges where a node represents an author and the edge weight is the number of papers co-authored between two authors A Performance of Community Partition We rst evaluate the performance of community partition by our greedy algorithm We test three settings of c local 10 50 and 100 and four settings of c global 10 100 1000 10000 We also compare with Newman’s algorithm 13 Figure 11\(a shows that our algorithm is about an order of magnitude faster than Newman’s when c local 10 Theresult also shows that when c local increases the efﬁciency decreases which demonstrates the effectiveness of Heuristic 1 10 100 1000 10000 10 2 10 3 10 4 c g lobal Running Time \(sec c local 10 c local 50 c local 100 Newman a Running Time 10 100 1000 10000 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 c g lobal Peak Memory Consumption \(MB c local 10 c local 50 c local 100 Newman b Memory Consumption Fig 11 Performance of Community Partition For the effect of Heuristic 2 i.e c global  the performance is the best when c global  1000 When c local 10  the running time is 682 613 570 and 667 seconds for c global  10 100 1000 and 10000 respectively The result can be explained as follows When c global is too small many items are not kept in the global max-heap and hen ce we need to rebuild the heap more often When c global is too large there are too many items in the heap and hence the update of the heap takes longer Figure 11\(b shows that the peak memory consumption of our algorithm increases when c local increases since the size of the local max-heaps increases when c local increases Increasing c global  i.e the size of the global heap from 10 to 10000 only increases the memory usage for less than 1 MB since we have only one global heap However in all cases our algorithm consumes considerably less memory than Newman’s We also record that the value of the modularity of the optimal community partition obtained by the greedy algorithm is 0.71 note that all the algorithms compute the same partition According to Newman 13 a m odul ari t y v a l u e o f g reat er t h an 0.3 indicates a signiﬁcant comm unity structure Therefore 0.71 is a very high value of modularity and indicates a highquality community partition B Semantics of Answer Graph A Case Study We conduct a case study to compare our answer graph with the center-piece subgraph  CEPS  10 Thi s s t udy ai ms to rst provide a more intuitive view on the answer graphs obtained by our algorithm and CEPS Then we perform a more systematic comparison in the following subsection We use the query  Jim Gray  Jennifer Widom  Michael I Jordan  Geoffrey E Hinton   The four scholars are from two different communities Gray and Widom are from the database community while Jordan and Hinton are from the machine learning community This is clearly captured by our answer graph as shown in Figure 1 which is displayed in Section I Figure 12 shows the answer graph of CEPS which is very similar to our answer graph The similarity is because both our algorithm and CEPS nd nodes that are closely related to the query nodes in order to connect them Thus the result shows that both algorithms are able to capture important nodes and paths related to the query nodes However our method not only nds a good connection between all query nodes but also for query nodes that are in the same context we put more emphasis on their connection than the existing methods Compare Figure 1 with Figure 12 we clearly see a stronger connection between Gray and Widom through both Ceri and Hellerstein in our answer graph than CEPS Michael I Jordan Jim Gray Alexander Aiken 1 3 Jennifer Widom Michael Stonebraker Tommi Jaakkola Lawrence K. Saul 3 Zoubin Ghahramani 9 Geoffrey E. Hinton 7 1 2 5 11 2 1 9 1 1 5 3 Joseph M Hellerstein Fig 12 The Answer Graph of CEPS Although the quality of the answer graphs is comparable our algorithm signiﬁcantly outperforms CEPS we take only 0.33 seconds to compute our answer graph while the computation of the CEPS takes 925 seconds We further compare the two methods using more systematic measures as follows C Performance of Object Connection Discovery We compare the performance of our algorithm PCquery with CEPS 10  W e s et t h e b udget t o b e t w i ce of t h e query size We also verify that the answer graphs obtained by PCquery and CEPS are of roughly the same size Other settings of CEPS are as its default We generate two types of queries in-community queries and random queries  which are abbreviated as cq and rq in the gures For in-community queries the nodes in a query are randomly selected from a randomly selected community For random queries the nodes in a query are randomly selected from the set of all nodes in the dataset We generate 100 queries for each type and test the query size from 2 nodes to 20 nodes Figure 13\(a reports the average running time of nding the connection for a query The result shows that PCquery is more 
866 
866 
 


than three orders of magnitude faster than CEPS for both query types We nd that PCquery takes more time to process an incommunity query than a random query This is because the computation of the intra-community connection by dynamic programming is more costly than that of the inter-community connection by tracing the c ommunity hierarchy tree 2 4 8 12 16 20 10 2 10 0 10 2 10 4 Quer y Size \(number of nodes Average Response Time \(sec PCquery \(cq CEPS \(cq PCquery \(rq CEPS \(rq a Average Response Time 2 4 8 12 16 20 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 Quer y Size \(number of nodes Peak Memory Consumption \(MB PCquery \(cq CEPS \(cq PCquery \(rq CEPS \(rq b Memory Consumption Fig 13 Efﬁciency of PCquery and CEPS Figure 13\(b reports the peak memory consumption during the entire running process The result shows that PCquery also consumes signiﬁcantly less memory than CEPS in all cases In addition to the comparison on efﬁciency we also compare the quality of the answer graphs obtained by PCquery and CEPS For the fairness of comparison We use the quality metrics proposed in CEPS 10  NRatio and ERatio which indicate the percentage of important nodes and edges that are captured by an answer graph respectively We report the result in Figure 14 2 4 8 12 16 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 Quer y Size \(number of nodes NRatio PCquery \(cq CEPS \(cq PCquery \(rq CEPS \(rq a Average NRatio 2 4 8 12 16 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 Quer y Size \(number of nodes Eratio PCquery \(cq CEPS \(cq PCquery \(rq CEPS \(rq b Average ERatio Fig 14 Quality of Answer Graph Figure 14 shows that both PCquery and CEPS obtain high-quality answer graphs Both NRatio and ERatio of our answer graphs are comparable to those of CEPS although on average those of CEPS are slightly better Considering our algorithm is three orders of magnitude faster and also consumes signiﬁcantly less memory we can conclude that our method is both efﬁcient and effective VIII C ONCLUSIONS We propose context-aware object connection discovery in a large graph We adopt a partition-and-conquer approach to achieve both high performance efﬁciency and high quality results Our method rst partitions a large graph into a set of communities The concept of community not only naturally deﬁnes the context of the nodes but also signiﬁcantly improves the efﬁciency of connection d iscovery since a community is much smaller than the original graph We compute the connection between query nodes rst at the intra-community level by maximizing the information throughput of the nodes and the information ow of the paths in the answer graph and then at the inter-community level by retaining the close relation between the commun ities as deﬁned by modularity The quality of both the intraand intercommunity connection is thus controlled by the integration of information throughput/ﬂow and modularity We verify by experiments that our community partition algorithm is efﬁcient and the set of communities obtained has high quality We also show that our method obtains comparable high-quality answers as the state-of-the-art algorithm but is more than three orders of magnitude faster and consumes signiﬁcantly less memory Acknowledgement This work is partially supported by RGC GRF under grant number CUHK419008 and HKUST617808 We thank Mr Hanghang Tong and Prof Christos Faloutsos for providing us the source code of CEPS R EFERENCES  X  Y an P  S  Y u and J  H an  Graph i nde xing bas e d o n d is crim inati v e frequent structure analysis ACM TODS  vol 30 pp 960–993 2005  J  C he ng Y  K e  W  N g a n d A  L u  F g-i nde x t o w a rds v e r i  c a t i on-fre e query processing on graph databases in SIGMOD  2007 pp 857–872  P  Z hao J  X Y u  a nd P  S Y u   Graph i nde xing T r ee  d elta   graph in VLDB  2007 pp 938–949 4 Y  K e J  Cheng and W  N g Cor r e lation s ear ch in gr aph d atabas es   in KDD  2007 pp 390–399 5 Y  K e J  Cheng and W  N g E f  cient c or r e lation s ear ch f r o m g r a ph databases To appear in TKDE  2008  A  I nokuchi T  W as hio and H  M ot oda An apriori-based algorithm for mining frequent substruc tures from graph data in PKDD  2000 pp 13–23  X  Y an and J  H an  Clos e g raph m i ni ng closed frequent graph patterns in KDD  2003 pp 286–295  J  H uan W  W a ng J  Prins  and J  Y ang Spin mining maximal frequent subgraphs from graph databases in KDD  2004 pp 581–586 9 C  F alouts o s  K  S  M c Cur l e y  a nd A  T o m k ins  F as t d is co v e r y of connection subgraphs in KDD  2004 pp 118–127  H  T ong and C  F alouts o s  Center piece s ubgraphs  p roblem de n ition and fast solutions in KDD  2006 pp 404–413  Y  K o ren S C North and C  V olins k y  Meas uring a nd e x tracting proximity in networks in KDD  2006 pp 245–255  M E  J  Ne wm an and M  G irv a n Finding and e v a luating c om m unity structure in networks Physical Review E  vol 69 p 066113 2004  M E  J  Ne wm an  F a s t algorithm f or detecting c om m unity s t ructure i n networks Physical Review E  vol 69 p 066133 2004  F  W u and B  A  H uber m an  F i nding com m unities i n linear tim e a physics approach The European Physical Journal B Condensed Matter and Complex Systems  vol 38 no 2 pp 331–338 2004  R K u m a r  P  Ragha v a n S Rajagopalan and A  T om kins   T r a w ling the web for emerging cyber-communities Comput Netw  vol 31 no 11-16 pp 1481–1493 1999  R K u m a r  P  Ragha v a n S Rajagopa lan and A Tomkins Extracting large-scale knowledge bases from the web in VLDB  1999 pp 639 650  R K u m a r  U Mahade v a n and D  S i v akum ar   A g raph-theoretic approach to extract storylines from search results in KDD  2004 pp 216–225  D Gibs on R K u m a r  and A  T om kins   Dis c o v e ring lar g e d ens e subgraphs in massive graphs in VLDB  2005 pp 721–732  Y  Douris boure F  Geraci a nd M Pe llegrini Extraction and classiﬁcation of dense communities in the web in WWW  2007 pp 461–470  A Claus e t M E  J  Ne wm an a nd C Moore Finding com m unity structure in very large networks Physical Review E  vol 70 p 066111 2004 
867 
867 
 


  13 false \(double\argets Figure 12 illustrates this situation. The conditional update correctly updates the tracker wh ich is tasked with following the target. However, the detector which is partially spatially coincident with the tracker also receives energy from the conditional update. This can lead the detector to initiate falsely\second target nearby the first target This effect can be countered a number of ways. First, we can adjust the speed at which the tracker re-centers itself The double initialization phenomenon occurs when the PDF peaks near the edge of the tracker grid. However, this method has the side effect of potentially allowing probability to fall off of the grid in low SNR environments causing track loss. Of course if the SNR is low enough or measurement outages occur tracks will be dropped. Second a guardband around the tracker that does not allow any detector sufficiently near the tracker to receive reinforcement via the conditional density can mitigate the double target problem. However, this has the side effect of preventing detection of closely spaced targets. Third increasing the spatial extent of the tracker has a similar effect as the using a guardband. It does require increased computation, but generates a better representation of the posterior There are several engineering tradeoffs. The first is that large tracker grids \(or large guard bands\ prevent falsely detecting new targets because of conditional probability spill over. However, if applied too aggressively, this will prevent correctly detecting cl osely spaced targets. Second quick tracker grid translation correctly centers the target mass, again preventing spillover into nearby detectors However, overly liberal trac ker repositioning may in fact move trackers to spurious energy locations and drop true targets off of the finite grid On Ambiguous Targets As discussed earlier, ambiguous targets will eventually move non-physically and this will cause the tracker to remove them via its natural prediction and update process Figure 13 illustrates this phenomenon. There are two real targets that create two persistent ambiguities. All four are detected and tracked automati cally. The ambiguous targets however, eventually move non-physically due to their reliance on the node bearing angles. The tracker automatically penalizes the non-physical motion and the targets\222 present hypothesis decrease quickly over time Ambiguous target removal is done automatically in the Bayesian framework as follows The PDF on target state is predicted forward in time according to the kinematic model True targets will have behavior consistent with the kinematic model \(note the kinematic model is a statistical model so it is predicting a range of possibilities for the future target state\biguous targets may behave consistently with this model for a period of time, but eventually they will appear to perform a non-physical maneuver \(these epochs typically come when the ambiguous target crosses a line of symmetry in the sensor\this point, the predicted target position will be in strong disagreement with the inco ming measurements on that target. This mismatch in predicted target position and measurements leads to a decr ease in the target present hypothesis as calculated in eq. \(4\long, only true targets remain   Figure 12 \226 Improper selection of grid resolution leads to multiple initializations on the same target. Left Measurement update of a Tracker \(red=highest likelih ood, blue=lowest\Right Measurement update of a detector which lies near the Tracker.  Since the track er size has been improperly chosen, some energy from the measurements of a single target leak s on to the detector. This can le ad to false double-initializations 


  14 8  C ONCLUSION  This paper has described a Bayesian approach to detecting and tracking multiple moving targets using acoustic data from multiple passive arrays In contrast to traditional undersea acoustic systems, which develop tracks at the single array level and require track association, our approach fuses data at the m easurement level and operates directly in the target state space We have detailed a well known nonlinear filtering approach to single target detection and tracking [1, 4 and desc ri be d our computationally efficient finite-grid approach to the required density estimation. We have furthermore extended this to the multiple target case by employing a bank of single target detector tracke rs and approximation methods that adjust for closely spaced targets. This approximate approach avoids fully treating the computationally complex joint multitarget problem Future work includes modified approaches to posterior estimation including dynamic grid extent, dynamic grid resolution, and particle filtering. It is anticipated that adaptive sampling of the posterior will lead to computational savings. Furthermore, future work includes more detailed modeling and estimation of closely spaced targets allowing a more accurate representation of the joint target density. Naively implemented, this implies exponential growth \(in the number of targets\r the probability state space being es timated. However, recent work in a related tracking domain on adaptive density factorization [5 c h a stic sa m p lin g  p article filtering    pr ovi de m e t h o d s t h at m i t i g at e t h i s com put at i o n gr owt h  when the full joint density is treated  A PPENDIX  This section discusses the details of how the single target probability density is time evolved on a discrete grid. This discussion is similar to that found elsewhere [15, 14, 13 We wish to compute the single target probability density at time      from the density at time     The relation between these two densities can be expressed using the law of total probability as                We expand     using a second order Taylor series as               where  is the vector of partial derivatives, i.e and is the matrix of second order partial derivatives Then the relation of \(23\ approximated as   Figure 13\226 Left: P h1 over time for four targets, two of which are real and two of which are ambiguous. Although the ambiguous intersections are persistent, eventually the false targets ha ve non-physical motion. The target present hypothesis quickly goes to zero for these targets and they are elimin ated. Right: the tracker estimate of target position and red circles indicating the removal point fo r the false targets 


  15             Where denotes the expectation with respect to the transition distribution    and the omitted terms involve similar terms involving and and cross terms between the and coordinates We use the nearly constant velocity \(NCV\model to specify the transition distribution    This assumption corresponds to one where the target moves at constant velocity except for random jump changes \(i.e nearly constant velocity\is is a plausible model when  is small as it is here Specifically, the NCV model assumes step changes in target velocity defined by the Ito Equations     This model implies  and likewise for  It is furthermore assumed that th e noise processes in each coordinate are independent Under this model, we can eval uate the required terms from 25\ as follows          And likewise for terms involving and Notice that all cross terms \(e.g  have expectation due to the assumption that the noise process is independent in the two coordinates This model simplifies \(25\ to         where the terms omitted are replicas involving the  coordinate Under the assumption that is small, this can be rewritten as    For implementation, this is approximated using an implicit Euler scheme wh ere      Where the indices  represent the discrete    locations where the probability mass is captured Likewise, using forward differencing      and          and similarly for the y coordinate system When substituted into \(28\is leads to a series of equations of the form                This series of equations defi ne the probability at each point at time  It can be efficiently solved via Thomas\222 algorithm \(rather than simply inverted\he matrix is tridiagonal     


  16 R EFERENCES    R o y E. Bet h el Benjam i n Shapo, C h r i st opher M   Kreucher, \223PDF Detection and Tracking\224, under review IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems  2 y. E B eth e l an d G. J. Paras, \223A PDF Mu lt it arg et Tracker\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems vol. 30, no. 2, pp. 386-403, April 1994 3   R o y E  B e t h e l a n d G  J  P a r a s  223 A P D F M u l t i s e n s o r  Multitarget Tracker\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 153-168 January 1998  L   D   Stone, C. A. Bar l ow, and T. L Corwin, \223Bayesian  Multiple Target Tracking\224  Boston: Artech House, 1999  l la and A. Hero, \223Multitarget Tracking using the Joint Multitarget Probability Density\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerosp ace and Electronic Systems  vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 1396-1414, October 2005  M  M o relande, C. Kreucher, K. Kastella, \223A Bay e sian  Approach to Multiple Target Detection and Tracking\224 IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing vol. 55, no. 5 pp. 1589-1604, May 2007  B  Shapo, and R  E B e t h el  223An Overvi ew of t h e Probability Density Function \(PDF\er\224 Oceans 2006 Boston, Sept. 2006  R oy L. St r e it 223M ult i s ensor M ul tit arget Int e nsit y Fil t er 224  International Conference on Information Fusion  Cologne, Germany July 2008  M  Ort on and W Fi t z geral d 223A B a y e si an approach t o  tracking multiple targets using sensor arrays and particle filters\224 IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 50 no. 2, pages 216-223, Feb 2002  A. Doucet B Vo, C Andri e u, and M Davy 223Par t i c le filtering for multi-target tracking and sensor management\224, IEEE International Conference on Information Fusion, 2002  H Van T r ees, \223Det ecti o n Est i m a t i on, and M odul at i o n  Theory IV:  Optimum Array Processing\224  J. C St ri k w erda, Fi nit e  Di fference Sch e m e s and Partial Differential Equations, Ch apman & Hall, New York 1989   K. Kast el la and C Kreucher, \223M ult i p l e  M odel Nonl i n ear  Filtering for Low Signal Ground Target Applications\224 IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems vol. 41, no. 2, April 2005, pp. 549-564  Z. Tang and \334. \326zg\374n er, \223Sensor Fu si on for Target Track Maintenance with Multiple UAVs based on Bayesian Filtering Method and Hospitability Map\224 Proceedings of the 42 nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control pages 19-24, December 2003  K. Kast ell a 223Fi n it e di ff erence m e t hods for no nl i n ear filtering and automatic target recognition\224 MultitargetMultisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances vol III, pages 233-258, Artech House, 2000 B IOGRAPHY  Chris Kreucher received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan in 2005. He is currently a Senior Systems Engineer at Integrity Applications Incorporated in Ann Arbor, Michigan. From 1998 to 2007, he was a Staff Scientist at General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems' Michigan Research & Development Facility \(formerly ERIM\. His current research interests include nonlinear filtering \(specifically particle filtering Bayesian methods of multitarget tracking, self localization information theoretic sensor management, and distributed swarm management Ben Shapo earned his Ph.D. in El ectrical Engineering in 1996 from the University of Michigan.  He is currently a Senior Systems Engineer at Integrity Applications Incorporated in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  From 2003 to 2008 he was a Lead Engineer at General Dynamics, where he contributed to a number of RF and acoustics signal processing and tracking efforts.  Dr. Shapo has 12 years experience in the DoD research community in the areas of detection, tracking, and data fusion, with emphasis on highfidelity simulations and applying new methods to real data  Dr. Roy Bethel is currently employed at The MITRE Corporation in McLean, VA. He has been actively involved in development, testing, and evaluation of signal processing and detection and tracking systems. In particular, he has developed many systems that have been implemented on United States Navy airborne, surface, and submerged platforms. He is currently engaged in research and development of innovative approaches to multitarget detection and tracking  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was partially funded by the Office of Naval Research contract N00014-08-C-0275. The authors would like to thank Dr. John Tague for his support, and Mr. Scott Spencer and Dr. Charles Choi for their assistance 


2 1 0 00                4 G ro w th 1  1 3 1 0 9 2 0 2 3 0 10  0 56                So ci ode m og ra ph ic c ha ra ct er is tic s 


s 5 A ge y ea rs   21 7 8 7 3 9 0 01 0 22  0 1 4 0 0 8              6 G en de r i s fe m al e2   0 2 4  0 0 6 0 0 2 0 00 0 0 3 0 10    


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


