The problem of entrepreneurship in industrial clusters has increasingly become the focal question in the study of regional economy. By investigating and studying the cases of the entrepreneurs from five big industrial clusters in our 
Abstract 
Research on Incubation Mechanism of Entrepreneurs in the Industrial Cluster  Chen Fang  College of Management Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan, P.R.CHINA Email: danna.chen@163.com   Hu Bei College of Management Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan, P.R.CHINA Email: beilei@mailme.cn    
country, the paper prop oses the incubation subjects incubation environments and in cubation atmospheres of the enterprising talents in industrial clusters, builds the evaluation cables of industrial clusters\222 venture incubation and venture performance, and tests its reliabilit y and validity. Furthermore multiple linear regression analysis method is applied to analyze the influences of venture in cubation factors on venture performance in industrial clusters. Eight factors such as venture incubation subjects, incubation environments and incubation atmospheres are taken as multiple independent variables; two dimensions of venture performance are taken as dependent variables and then all entry regression analysis method is applied to build a multiple linear regression equation of venture performance. All of the above studies have tested the influences and associ ate effects of the entrepreneurs\222 incubation system in industrial clust 
ers on the venture performance and have revealed th e mechanism of this system 
Keywords 
Industrial Cluster; Enterprising Talents Incubation System  I  I NTRODUCTION  Recognized as an important force of driving the regional economy forward entrepreneursh ip has been increasingly paid attention to in vari ous countries and regions. The enterprising talents, as a resul t, are gradually becoming the core driving force of technologi cal innovation and economic growth. Nowadays in our country, with the shortage of supplies in the job market the increasingly competitive environment of employment an 
d the gradually detailed differentiation of trades, new industrial opportunities have begun to spring up. Mean while, people\222s spirits of adventure and innovation increase daily. More than ever they long for further annotating their poten tial values in an adventurous and quick way. As a result, more and more people join in the self-employed teams  The occurrence rate and success rate of entrepreneurship in industrial clusters is much higher than that of in the isolated regions. Eleven new companies are established in the Silicon Valley every week. It has quickly become the world class information industrial clusters within a few decades. Also in our country, more than 3000 new enterprises are registered in Zhongguancun every year at the present time; in Wuhan Optical Valley, 2048 enterprises 
have been registered since the Valley was established in 2005, which means that 5.6 enterprises come into being every day. Why do industrial clusters can become the catalytic area and incubator to th e enterprising talents? What are the factors in industrial clu sters that can incubate the enterprising talents? How does the mechan ism work? These questions are the key points to reveal the fundamental reasons of the enterprising talents\222 development and the sustainable development of industrial clusters  II. RESEARCH THINKING AND THEORETICAL MODEL  
A. Accumulation and Incubation of Enterprising Talents in Industrial Clusters 1\ The accumulative effects of industrial clusters are the 
power source of attracting and accumulating enterprising talents 
Krugman\(1991\d the opinion that compared to the other enterprises, the accu mulative effects of industrial clusters could provide th e enterprises more competitive advantages in aspects of skilled labor force supply, raw materials supply, transportation cost, products pricing, profit space, infrastructure and so on. These advantages had encouraged those en terprising talents to join in industrial clusters to carve their careers hram i and E v ans 2000  proposed that in industrial clusters, the factors such as superior environments, venture capitals, social capitals entrepreneurial spirits and so on had decreased the difficulty of starting a business. As a result, large quantities of 
entrepreneurs were attracted to join in th n  our country Zhao Jiangming and Liu Jinhong\(2004\gued that during the process of industrial accumulation, the entrepreneurial activities could be mutually affected  with each other and could form a benign interaction. The centralization of entrepren eurship had lowered the risks of establishing new businesses and that of entering into new areas. It had also increased the opportunities and resources that could promote the possibilities of success. The interaction of Entrepreneurs\222 acts and regional environments had boosted the evolution and development of industrial clusters e searche rs i n clude d Mai Y i yuan and s o  o n  2007\ho ught that industrial clusters had possessed 
fairly perfect entrepreneurial m echanism which was centrally embodied in the superior environments and entrepreneurial plat forms. These advantages could spur the enterprising talents on to success n novative  advantages of industrial cl usters themselves make them have entrepreneurial advantages as well. This is also one of the factors that have produced a higher  rate of business start-ups in industrial clusters 
The concept of incubator came into 302 
2\ Industrial clusters become the incubator of enterprising talents 


In industrial clusters, incubation of enterprising talents is a complicated system with multip le dimensions. Michael. E Porter \(1990\d the implication of industrial cluster Government various institutions Commercial living facilities B. Incubation System for the Enterprising Talents in Industrial Clusters A. Construction of indexes system Industrial Cluster  being in America, of which the original meaning is a cabinet used for eggs or premature infa nts. Under well-controlled temperatures, humidity and stability, the fragile new life within incubation periods ca n grow up smoothly in the incubator. Industrial clusters ha ve the innate strength of enterprising talents\222 incubation. By studying Silicon Valley and 128 Highway in Boston Saxenian\(1994\ demonstrated industrial clusters\222 stimulating effects on enterprising activities from the aspects of knowledg e spillover and social capital [5 ang Hu i\(20 03  po sed th at th e learn i n g  effects in industrial clusters could, on one hand, lower the threshold of starting busines ses. Particularly, the learning effects provided the convenient conditions of technologies capitals, labor forces, entrepreneursh ips, market expanding and so on to help to the derivation and development of enterprises in industrial clusters. On the other hand, the quick generalization of the produ cing skills and managerial experience which were on the bo ttom of the learning linear could also greatly decrease the risks of starting new businesses By studying th e developmental process of featured Massive Economic in Zhejiang, Hu Jianji and Chen Haibin\(2005\concluded that abundant Formless Supplies nongovernmental credit system bred by kinships and nostalgias and well network structures formed along the history had strengthened the social capital of potential entrepreneurs, wh ich, as a result, greatly increased the possibilities of enterprising success r i s  a special economic region whose resources are relatively centralized. As a result, the chance of seeking new low cost plans greatly increases. More relative experience and ability accumulations spur the generations of abundant entrepreneurs and new enterprises. On the other hand, the local entrepreneurial sp irits further stimulate entrepreneurships and innovations. Therefore, industrial clusters can incubate entrepreneurs continuously  Incubation Stimulation Catalysis Innovative entrepreneurial atmosphere 303 Venture perfor mance Incubation subject  Incubation environme nt  Incubation atmospher e  Based on the discussions above, it can be seen that in industrial clusters, the incubation subjects, environments an atmospheres of entrepreneurs formed in the various institutions and faculties will impact on the venture performance of entrepreneurs. In this part of discussion, the writer intends to explore what on earth these impacts are and thereby reveal the entrepreneurs\222 incubation mechanism in industrial clusters  Upon the design of independent variables, Hugh \(1994 held the opinion that the incubation environment of entrepreneurship generally includes five aspects: venture cultural atmosphere, venture incubation network, venture policy support, investment and financing environment and infrastructure services h e J o int  Production Theory, Resources Th eory, Network Theory and so on, Wang Zhongming emphatically analyzed the effective operating mode of enterprises incubator in boosting the establishment and development of venture companies, thereby proposed the six critical elements which had made the enterp rises incubator successfully work including team management, supportive services environment supports, speciali zed services and performance mode of the incubator [1 By studying the em pirical data  Zhang Wei and Xing Xiao \(2007\nalyzed and tested the  Industrial cluster not only includes those manufacturing and operating enterprises which are engaged in a particular industry dire ctly, but also includes various behavioral actors which can su pport those enterprises both directly and indirectly, such as governments, universities financial institutions, research institutions, trade organizations, vocational training center and so on. These subjects can provide professional trainings, educations information, researches and technical ass y  studying the industrial clust er of American biotechnology Feldman \(2001\ proposed that in one region, enterprising talents were of shortage at the very beginning. And then it was gradually developed into a full-function region including the transition of foundation and the transition from innovation system inner in to more efficient system In fact, no region\222s developm ent can be achieved by one isolated behavioral actor. It is the results of all kinds of activities\222 interactions among various subjects\222 from both inner and outer region. Industri al cluster is only an effective economic organization form to ensure that all the interacted activities among different behav ioral actors are of high efficiency. Every subject in an industrial cluster is not isolated from each other. On the contrary, they are connected closely through regional network. This regional network is a relation scheme th at seems to be closed in the industrial clusters which, in fact, are still connected with the outside. Seen from the angle of resource endowment industrial cluster is a region al mode of resource deployment in which, all the resources inner one region are effectively organized in a best way to be engaged in the most advantageous economical ac tivities for this region. The functions of industrial clusters on en trepreneurs\222 incubation are mainly embodied in the in cubation of subjects stimulation of environm ent and the catalysis of atmosphere which are shown in the Fig. I below   Fig. 1. Incubation System and Incubation Effects for the Entrepreneurs in Industrial Clusters   VARIABLE DESIGN AND MEASUREMENTS   Incubation System of Entrepreneurs 


B. Small Sample Test and Form of Indexes System 125 44.1 RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS  The research was conducted through depth interviews and questionnaires. More than 300 questionnaires were delivere d to the entr epreneurs from the industrial clusters of Wenzhou Leather, Wuhan Optical Va lley, Xuchang Periwig Xiantao Non-woven, Dongguan IT and so on. 284 valid questionnaires were collected, among which, 85.6% of the respondents were males while 14.4% of them are females Their ages and education backgrounds are shown in Table 1 below  TABLE I  Age and Educations backgrounds of the Respondents Age Sample size Educatio n Sample size Working years Sample size Below 30 14 4.9 Junior high below 39 13.7  For the sake of testing the validity and reliability of entrepreneurs\222 incubation in dex system in industrial clusters in this paper, some enterprises from Henan Xuchang Periwig industrial cluster, Wuha n Optical Valley industrial cluster and Xiantao Non-wove n industrial cluster were picked to be tested 102 questionnaires we re delivered and 89 valid questionnaires wer e collected. Likert scale was adopted in the questionnaire, in which 5 represented very important, 4 represented relatively important, 3 represented not sure, 2 represented not ver y important and 1 represented unimportant. The Statistical Software SPSS18.0 was used for analyzing the indexes system\222s reliability of entrepreneurs\222 incub ation factors in ind ustrial clusters which was propo sed in the thesis and estimating and revising the system meanwhile  Cronbach\222s \005 was adopted to measure the scale reliability The Cronbach\222s \005 of the whole questionnaire was 0.841 greater than 0.8; and every sub item\222s Cronbach\222s \005 was over 0.70. Therefore, the scale\222 s internal reliab ility in this thesis is overall high; and the reliabilities of each factor used for exploratory study were also acceptable  Through statistic analysis of all the measurements, it was found that among the revised items\222 relevance, the relevance between \223the services provided by Medias and advertisements inner industrial clusters\224 and \223natural resources of industrial clusters\224 was below 0.4, of which the index centrality was a little bit lower. The Cronbach\222s \005 was improved after the two items were deleted. Chuechill \(1979 proposed that if the total relevance of the items was below 0.4, and the Cronbach\222s \005 was improved after the related items were deleted, then the related items should be deleted Based on the statement, I decided to do exploratory factor analysis on the new established cable so that each measurement item could be clarified. After the clarification the evaluation indexes system of entrepreneurs\222 incubation in industrial clusters includes 7 variables and 32 indexes   15 5.2 34 12.0 52 18.3 58 20.4 relationship between high tech venture incubation environment and venture growth performance in our country The results indicated that four critical factors of venture incubation environment would remarkably influence the venture growth performance of high technology enterprises including venture cultural atmosphere, venture incubation network, venture policy support and in frastructure services  o m e schola r s have  studie d upon one pa rticul ar venture environment. Powers and McDougall proposed that universities or scientific research institutions are important channels for enterprises to obtain techno logies. Enterprises could obtain technologies throug h purchasing universities and scientific research institutions 222 patents. Or they are also get technologies through collaborative research with universities or scientific research institutions. Universities and scientific research institutions had provided the newly founded enterprises with we ll environment of technology research and development and technology spread Rosenstein, Bruno, By grave and Taylor\(1993\d that risk investment is an important channel of new enterprises\222 financing. Referring to the research results in venture environment and vent ure mechanism of industrial clusters by Krugman \(1991\rami and Evans\(2000 Wang Zhongming\(2004\ and so on, they divided the incubation subjects into five dimensions: government subjects, scientific subj ects, information and finance subjects, consultation service subjects and market subjects 26 indexes in total. The incubation environment was divided into three dimensions: mun icipal facilities environment business environment and living environment, three indexed in total. The venture incubation atmosphere was divided into three dimensions: encouraging innovation, tolerating failure and setting examples to motivate, five indexes in total Upon the design of dependent variables, foreign and domestic scholars test the venture performance from subjective and objective dime nsions. Chandler and Hanks proposed that the relationshi p between venture performance and entrepreneurs could be understood from individuals organizations and enviro nments  V e nkat ram an and Ramanujam proposed that the subjective performance could be measured from enterprises\222 non-financial goals and rough success rate while the objective performance could be measured from some objective financial indexes such as sales growth, personnel gr owth and return of investment and so on. Researchers like Wall \(2004 in particular studied the validity of adopting subjective assessment method to measure the enterprises\222 finan cial performance and found that this method had fine converge validity for measuring the enterprises\222 perform ferring to the  researc h findings by Venkatraman and Ramaujam, Wall and so on the writer will measure the vent ure performance in two dimensions in this thesis: entre preneur\222s individual growth performance and the related enterprise\222s operation performance, ten indexes in total Over 61 39 13.7 Master and above 20 7.0   31-40 47 16.5 Senior high 58 20.4  41-50 100 35.2 College degree 93 32.7   51-60 84 29.6 Bachelor 222s degree 74 26.1    304 


NGO 0.21 2.24 0.29 3.42 Independent variables Coefficient Education research 0 15 3.56** 0.13 2.69 Factor 1 Individual development performance Cronbach \005=0.891   Measurements Factor 1 Factor 2  T value Coefficient  T value Aiming at the entrepreneurs\222 incubation factors in industrial clusters, this paper ex tracted the data of those valid questionnaires to conduct factor analysis by adopting the principle component method. Meanwhile, the results of ordinal measurement were transferred to factor scores as backups to multiple regression analysis. The KMO \(Kaiser Meyer Olkin\816 the observation of Bartlett test of sphericity statistics was 1327.973.the variable was suitable for factor analysis. The lowest index of communalities\222 extractions also reached 0.478, which indicated that the evaluation indexes of this questionnaire had obvious impacts on entrepreneurs\222 incubation and the questionnaire\222s design was reliable and appropriate as well Under the circumstance of initial factors\222 solution, 8 factors\222 Eigen values exceeded 1, whose cumulative contribution of variance accounted to 75.234%. Therefore, extracting 8 factors can explain most info rmation of the original variables and the information loss is less. At last, Varimax was introduced to orthogonally rotate the load matrix so as to make the factors nam eable. In test of reliability Cronbach\222s \005 are all over 0.7. The indexes values of every measurement are shown in Table 4 in the end of the article Similarly, exploratory factor analysis was conducted on the questionnaires of venture performance, in which, the principle component analysis and varimax orthogonal rotation were adopted to extract factors. The standard was the Eigen value exceeded 1 and the factors\222 loadings of the items were not less than 0.5. Two critical factors were extracted. Meanwhile, some items which located in two dimensions crosswise and had a little bit higher factors\222 loadings were deleted. Finally the venture performance evaluation scale had two dimensions, 5 items in each dimension respectively, 10 ite ms in total. The results are shown in Table 2 below  TABLE N = 284 Consulting service 0.23 2.32** 0.24 3.10 p<0.05  **p<0.01, co efficient \t as standard re gression coefficient 305 Cumulative contribution rate of variance 38.91% 74.14 Market 0.14 3.18** 0.32 4.01 0.24 3.45** 0.21 3.36 0.29 3.61** 0.23 3.38 0.29 0.34 12.31** 19.54 Revised R 2 F value  According to the ov erall situation of factor polymerization, the industrial clusters\222 effects on enterprising talents\222 incubation are jointly influenced by three dimensions with many factors in incubation subject incubation environment and incubation atmosphere However, factors in different dimensions have different effect intensions, therefor e, the following hypothesis are proposed H1a: Government subjects in industrial clusters have remarkable positive effects on both individual and organizational venture performance H1b: Consulting service su bjects in industrial clusters have remarkable positive effects on both individual and organizational venture performance H1c: NGO subjects in industrial clusters have remarkable positive effects on both individual and organizational venture performance H1d: Education research subjects in industrial clusters have remarkable positive effects on both individual and organizational venture performance H1e: Information and finance subjects in industrial clusters have remarkable positiv e effects on both individual and organizational venture performance H1f: market subjects in industrial clusters have remarkable positive effects on both individual and organizational venture performance  H2: Venture environment in industrial clusters have remarkable positive effects on both individual and organizational venture performance H3: Venture atmosphere in industrial clusters have remarkable positive effects on both individual and organizational venture performance  TEST AND ANALYSIS OF HYPOTHESIS Government 0.16 3.21 0.18 4.21 finance 0.28 2.76** 0.31 3.78 Venture atmosphere Venture environment  This paper has adopted multiple linear regression analysis method to analyze the infl uences of industrial cluster venture incubation elements on venture performance. Eight elements such as venture incubation subject, incubation environments and incubation atmosphere are taken as multiple independent variables two dimensions of venture performance are taken as depende nt variables; and then all entry regression analysis method is applied to build a multiple linear regression equation of venture performance The analysis results are shown in Table 3 below  TABLE  Exploratory Factor Analysis Results of Venture Performance  Results of Regression Analysis Individual development performance Enterprises\222 operation performance 1 My innovation ability is greatly improved 0.812 0.301 2 I have accumulated abundant venture experience 0.836 0.276 3 My wealth accumulation is greatly improved 0.775 0.348 4 My professional knowledge is greatly increased 0.746 0.361 5 I have established strong interpersonal network 0.818 0.298 Factor 2 Enterprises\222 oper ation performance Cronbach \005=0.856  6 The company size is remarkably expanded than that of in the start-up stage 0.320 0.845 7 The market share is greatly increased than that of in the start-up stage 0.249 0.871 8 The profits are greatly increased 0.284 0.824 9 The research capability is stronger 0.391 0.769 10 The number of new products is increasing constantly 0.216 0.793 Variance contribution rate 38.91% 35.23 


market information Preferential policies Supplier resources Enterprises\222 visits or recommendation Venture environments Atmospheres of encouraging innovations and adventures Business environments and supporting facilities Market subjects technology information Municipal infrastructures Motivation of successful ones  0.735 0.660 0.737 0.621 0.716 0.674 0.707 0.616 0.682 0.583 0.655 0.543 0.724 0.552 0.689 0.689 0.621 0.575 0.695 0.518 0.558 0.654 0.718 0.563 0.643 0.534 0.642 0.593 0.687 0.567 0.679 0.598 0.847 Education research subjects 0.798 Labor force resources 0.867     The results of the data an alysis indicates that industrial clusters establish the in cubation system of enterprising talents through the subjects of governments, NGOs consulting service in stitutions, scientifi c institutions information and finance institutions and the related enterprises. These subjects not only boost the industrial clusters\222 development, but also provide the entrepreneurs in the industrial clusters with policies, venture supports consulting services, technologies labor resources, industrial market resources and system & information resources Scholars like Bei Hu\(2008\propos ed that industrial clusters have well effects on intellectual accumulation. The good venture environments and ven ture atmospheres in industrial clusters had become the motive power of enterprising talents\222 accumulation [15 Th e sou nd i n stitu tio n a l subj ects in industrial clusters have become the catalysis of entrepreneurs\222 developments which greatly boost the incubation of enterp rising talents. The ef fects of incubation subjects have boosted the formation of entrepreneurs\222 entrepreneur intensions and have provided them with convenient incuba tion conditions meanwhile; as a result these subjects eventually have boosted the entrepreneurs\222 success. And the endogenetic resources advantages arisen from the entrepreneurships in return have promoted the venture resources\222 accumulations and have pushed technological innovatio ns and industrial up grading forward in industrial clusters, which he lp to realize the sustainable development of industrial clusters and eventually constantly strengthen industrial clusters\222 effects on entrepreneurs\222 incubation \(shown in the Fig. II in the end of the article In order to promote the incubation efficiency and effects of enterprising talents in indu strial clusters, it is necessary to further strengthen govern ments\222 guidance and overall programming effects, fully develop NGOs\222 jointing and coordinating functions. By taking the concentrated advantage of the information and resources brought by accumulative economy in industrial clusters, it provides the entrepreneurs with conveni ent venture environments and good venture atmospheres, build industrial clusters\222 entrepreneur incubator system s, form a benign circulation and interaction of \223industrial clusters attract entrepreneurs while entrepreneurs drive industrial clusters\222 upgrading and developments\224  TABLE N = 284 0.725 0.865 0.707 0.821 Index items Factor loading Cronbac h\222s \005 Factor name and variance contribution rate Index items Factor loading Cronba ch\222s \005 Management consulting  Access to supporting funds Learning exchanges among peer enterprises Industrial development planning and guiding Access to bank loans Information finance subjects  Exploratory Analysis Results of Venture Incubation Factors Cable ontribution rate Educational resources of rim universities IPR\(intellectual property protection intellectual information Training institutions  Consultative service subjects Warning of failed entrepreneurs Client resources Finance and insurance  Cooperation between school & enterprise Government subjects Legal consulting service 12.289 9.456 9.741 8.345 7.001 11.750 7.910 8.743   Factor name and variance  The transfer of technological results  Venture counseling   cooperation network  Living environments and   Logistics facilities and   Atmospheres of tolerating failures  Access to risk projects  It can be seen from the analysis results that the NGO subjects, education research subjects, information and finance subjects and market subjects in industrial clusters all have remarkable positive effects on both entrepreneurs\222 individual development performance and the related enterprises\222 operation performance; the government subjects have remarkable positive effects on the enterprises\222 operation performance, not very prominent on individual performance while consulti ng service subjects have remarkable positive effects on entrepreneurs\222 individual development performance, not very prominent on enterprises. Both of the two dimensions of industrial clusters in incubation environments and incubation atmosphere have remarkable positive effects on venture performance It can be concluded from th e results that hypothesis H1c H1d. H1e, H1f, H2 and H3 are completely proved while hypothesis H1a and H1b are partly proved  RESULTS c  0.713 Demonstration of outstanding enterprises   Venture atmospheres  306 NGO subjects 


861-891  Hugh D S Assessing the inter ve ntion ef fectivenes s of business  incubation programs on new busi ness start-ups. Journal of Developmental Entrepreneurship, 1999 Industrial clusters\222 upgrading and transformations 307 Venture Incubator Subjects in Industrial Clusters Venture incubation conditions in industrial clusters  ACKNOWLEDGMENT  The paper is one of the outcomes of the project \223Research on the Mutual Reaction Mechanism of Developing of Industrial Clusters and the Incubating of Entrepreneurs\224 which is supported by th e national natural science foundation of China. The project number is 70872034. It is also one of the outcomes of the project which supported by the national natural science foundation of China \(NO 71072030\ the project which supported by Ministry of Education of China NO. 09YJA630045   REFERENCES   Krug m a n. .Increas ing Returns and Economic Geography The Journal of Political Economy, 1991, 99\(3  H.Bahra m i, S.Ev ans. Flexible Recy cling and Hig h Technology   Understanding Silicon Valley: the anato m y of an entrepreneurial re gion, 2000. 165-189  Zhao Jiang m ing Liu Jinhon g The Development of Entrepreneurs and Industrial Clusters: Ventur e, Innovation and Social Capital [J Rural Economy,2004\(6  Mai Yiy uan, Peng Yiling, Qiao Junjie. The Correlat ions between Venture Activities and Industrial Clusters in Different Developm ent of S T, 2007\(4\:161-164  Saxenian A. Regional Advantage Culture and Com p etition in Silicon Valle Ca m b ridge: Ha rva rd University Press. 1994.68-72  Zhang Hui. The inner Ec onomic Mechanism of Industrial Cluster Comp ft Scien ce, 2003\(1  Hu Jianji, Chen Haibin. Analysis on the Critical \223 S oft Factors\224 in  Boosting the Industrial Clusters\222 Enterprises Derivation\204\204Taking the Experience of Enterprises\222 Derivation in Zhejiang\222s \223Massive Economic\224 for Exam China I ndustr ial Econom y, 2005 3  51-57  ME.Po rter. The Co m p etitive Advantage of Nations J]. Harva rd  Business Review, 1990.121 2 Scientific Research Venture implements Venture success  Venture resources 222 Strengthen of incubation effects Strengthen of incubation effects Accumulation effects of industrial clusters The Dynamics of Industrial Capitalism M].Harvard University Press 1994. 168-194  Tian Xiao m i ng  Jiang Qinfeng  W a ng Zhong m i n g  Em pir ical Research on Relationships between En terprises\222 Dynamic Capabilities and Venture Performan Studies i n Science of Science, 2008, 26 4  Bei Hu  F ang Ch en Rongzhi L i u. Research about the M a gnetic Effect of the Industrial Cluster on  International  Confer ence on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, Korea, 2008  NGOs Enterprise Governments Venture atmospheres 73-93  Feld m a n. The ent repreneurial event revisited: Fir m f o rm ation in a regional context [J]. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2001 10 4\(2 117-133  Z h ang W e i W a n g Z hong m i ng T h eor etical Resear ch on Ventur e Mechanism of Enterprise Incubator. Science & Technology Progress and Policy 11  Z h ang W e i Xin g Xiao Resear ch on Relationshi ps between  High-tech Enterprises\222 Ventur e Incubation Environments and Development Perform Studi es in Science of Science, 2007 25\(1\: 74-78  Alfred Dupont C h andler, Taka shi Hikino Scale and Scope  Information & Finance   Fig.2. Entrepreneurs\222\222 Incubation System in Industrial Clusters Consulting Service Venture environments Accumulations of enterprising talents Formation of entrepreneur intensions 


read operation, because clients can redirect read request to another replica immediately noticing the requested replica fails. Thus for read operations clients does not  has to wait for failure detection and service recovery.  Figure 8\(b\ shows the similar trend for different replication strategy and failure impact as PostMark. Furthermore, result of mipBLAST shows that when OSD fails, the more clients involving in processing, the worse performance becomes. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, the more clients involving in processing, the more files are accessed, which trigger more service recovery procedures to ensure continuous service Secondly, mipBLAST running over multiply clients generates multiple threads to parallel access gene database Thus any failure of OSD will affect multiple instances of read/write operation at the same time which causes greater impact on performance eventually   a  b Figure 8  Performance of Postmark and mpiBlast with one replica, three replicas with Rc 2, and three replicas with occurrence of node failure. \(a Performance of PostMark,  \(b\mance of mpiBLAST VI  C ONCLUSION  In this paper we present a replication-based fault-tolerant mechanism for a large-scale cluster file system and its implementation in the prototype HA-DCFS3. This faulttolerant mechanism is primarily designed for high performance and high availability both under normal environment and in the presence of failures in the data path Our fault-tolerant mechanism uses an efficient and flexible replication algorithm called APCP, which optimizes existing primary copy protocol and improves performance for mutations by about 20%-60% without losing the ability of fault-tolerance. HA-DCFS3 also adopts an integrated faulttolerant framework, which transparently masks failures in data path and allows system to provide continuous service by fine-grained failure detection and a two-level data recovery strategy, which greatly reduces unnecessary data rereplication in the meantime of ensuring data availability A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The work is supported in part by the National High-Tech Research and Development Program of China under grant No. 2006AA01A102 and grand No. 2009AA01Z139. The authors would like to thank Dr. Jianfeng Zhan and Dr Yanchao Miao for their helpful suggestions. And our anonymous reviewers provided valuable feedback and suggestions that we have endeavored to incorporate into the paper R EFERENCES   1  R. Bryant, “Data-Intensive Supercomputing: The Case for DISC Technical Report, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, May 2007 2  B. Schroeder, G.A. Gibson, “The Computer Failure Data Repository CFDR\: collecting, sharing and analyzing failure data”, In Conference on High Performance Networking and Computing 2006 3  E. Pinherio, et al, “Failure trends in large disk”, In Proc. of the 5th conference on UNSENIX Conference in File and Storage Technologies 2007 4  B. Schroeder, G.A. Gibson, “Disk failures in the real world: What does an MTTF of 1,000,000 hours mean to you?”, In Proc. of the 5th conference on USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies  2007 5  J. H. Morris, et al, “Andrew: a distributed personal computing environment Commun. ACM 1986, pp.184–201 6  C. Jerian, et al, “Availability in the Echo File System”, SRC Research Report 112, Systems Research Center, Digital Co., Palo Alto CA,1993 7  B. Liskov, et al, “Replication in the Harp File System”, In Proc. of the 13th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles October, 1991 8  S. Ghemawat, H. Gobiol, “The Google  le system”.  In Proc. of the 19th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles Bolton Landing, NY, Oct. 2003. ACM 9  D. Gifford, “Weighted voting for replicated data”, In Proc. of the 7th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles Pacific Crove CA , 1979   A.El-Abbadi, et al, “An Efficient Fault-tolerant Protocol for Replicated Data Management”, In Proc. of the 4th Symposium on Principles of Database Systems ACM,1985,pp.215-229   S.A. Weil, et al, “Ceph: A scalable, high-performance  distributed  le system”, In Proc. of the 7th Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation Seattle, WA, Nov, 2006. USENIX   S.A. Weil, et al, CRUSH: Controlled, scalable, decentralized placement of replicated data. In Proc. of the 2006 ACM/IEEE Conference on Supercomputing Tampa, FL, Nov. 2006. ACM   T.D. Chandra, et al, “Paxos made live: an engineering perspective In Proc. of the 26th annual ACM Symposuim on Principles of Distributed Computing Portland, Oregon, 2007,pp.398-407 
100 
100 
100 


  F. Schneider, “Implementing fault-tolerant service using the state machine approach: a tutorial ACM Computing Surveys 1990 pp.299-319   J. Kubiatowicz, et al, “OceanStore: An architecture for global-scale persistent storage”, In Proc. of the 9th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems Cambridge, MA, Nov. 2000. ACM   Y. Saito, et al, “FAB: Building distributed enterprise disk arrays from commodity components”, In Proc. of the 11th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems pp. 48–58, 2004   F. Dabek, et al, “Wide-area cooperative storage with CFS”, In Proc of the 18th ACM  Symposium on Operating systems principles  October 21-24, 2001, Banff, Alberta, Canada   A. Demers, et al, “The Bayou architecture: Support for data sharing among mobile users”, In Proc. of IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems & Applications Dec. 1994   G. DeCandia et al, “Dynamo: Amazon's highly available key-value store”. In Proc. of 21st ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles 2007   B.Chun, et al, "Efficient Replica Maintenance for Distributed Storage Systems", In Proc .of the 3rd USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation May, 2006   S.Gaonkar, et al, “Scaling file systems  to  support petascale  clusters A dependability analysis to support informed design choices”. In Proc. of the 38th Annual IEEE/EFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks pp, 386-391,2008   Q. Xin, et al, “Evaluation of Distributed Recovery in Large-Scale Storage Systems”,  In Proc. of the 13th IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Distributed Computing pp.172-181 2004   J.Katcher, “PostMark: A New File System Benchmark http://www.netapp.com/, 1997    http://www.mpiblast.org   
101 
101 
101 


  9 Let 1 2 sin cos P P VC VC 212  004 004 then  22 12 1 1 2 tan P VCC C C 004    8  For all other signal frequencies present in the rectification proce ss, their values must total to zero whenever the rectificati on is not their specific frequency. The FST algorithm must preserve the property of orthogonality between the different frequencies. Additionally, any noise present even after rectifica tion will be mitigated by the summation process. Thus for this  technique, mathematically, crosstalk from adjacent frequencies will be zero and the SO S time record length can be as short as one period of the lowest fre quency. However, the FST method only works if the octave harmonic relationship holds for all frequencies in the SOS including the sample frequency. This en sures that over a period of any frequency present in the SOS there will always be an even number of samples. The implementa tion of the rectification functions with discrete signals in a manner that preserves orthogonality between different frequencies is developed within this paper  


  10 assume there is only one right answer  225  Remains objective so as not to be hinde red by irrelevant, outside influences Coaches and Mentors 225  Coaches and mentors team members and less experienced systems engineers to develop the breadth and depth of their competencies by giving specific positive and negative feedback for developmental purposes 225  Recognizes \223high potential\224 individuals by understanding and identifying the presence of skills and traits needed to be successful in the field  225  Challenges individuals to do their best work by giving assignments that build their capabilities  225  Asks questions that challenge assump tions, validate conclusions, and explore thought processes  225  Promotes a team culture that places a gr eater priority on the performance of the system than the performance of its subsystems Delegates \225  Delegates responsibility and authority to the lowest possible levels while retaining control of subsystem requireme nts and system integration functions 225  Builds confidence among team member s by delegating responsibility and decision-making authority to subsystem leads and then accepting the decisions they make without resistance or second-guessing  Ensures Resources are Available 225  Ensures that the team has the right tools, knowledge, and resources in order to get the job done 225  Keeps abreast of current analytical tools and models by knowing where to find them, when to apply them, and how to use them 225  Utilizes data archiving tools and processes to organize, simplify, and distribute information effectively.  Ensures that the information team members use to make decisions and coordinate activities is reliable and trustworthy.  Uses formal channels of communication to place reasonable limits on the number of people from whom information is gathered  Table 7 Attitudes and Attributes Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Remains Inquisitive and Curious 225  Is naturally inquisitive and curious, and is largely driven by that curiosity.  Is fearless and has an authentic and persistent desire to understand how everything works and how it relates to everything else.  Can quickly connect dots and identify weak spots 225  Seeks to understand the big picture and interrelationship of the parts.  Moves without boundaries from one topic to another, to discover what else needs to be known, what might be overlooked 225  Actively explores the technical issues, concepts, and lexicon of subsystem disciplines that are less familiar and comfortable Seeks Information and Uses the Art of Questioning 225  Asks difficult questions of discipline or subsystem experts regarding boundaries conditions, and assumptions to ensure continuity across all systems and to ensure that the proposed solution is an integrated solution and fundamentally makes sense 225  Asks questions, at appropriate times and in various ways, to ensure consistency of answers and to reveal if others unde rstand what constitutes system success Probes an area if inconsistency is revealed 225  Asks questions artfully.  Uses a series of questions that build upon each other to help identify the root of a problem or solutions 225  Asks \223Why?\224  \223Why did we decide to do it that way?\224  \223What were the alternative solutions, and did we do trade studies that helped us determine why this was the best solution?\224 225  Confident in knowing what they do know a nd willing to state it and admit what is not known; seeks specialists to fill in missing pieces 


  11 Advances Ideas 225  Restates, reframes, and clarifies others 222 questions to ensure understanding among group members by questioning and measuring an idea against system requirements 225  Fosters open two-way discussions.  Brainstorms with others to solicit various viewpoints.  Allows and encourages people to state opinions while listening for connections and disconnects in logic 225  Engages the team by explaining how th e solution or approach was reached Gains Respect Credibility, and Trust 225  Uses respectful tone, words and body language 225  Follows through on commitments and serves as an advocate for the team 225  Demonstrates understanding and appreciation of the challenges others face 225  Earns the respect of team members by demonstrating personal integrity Conducts business in an honest and tr ustworthy manner by avoiding deception and treating team members fairly 225  Sees trust of self and others as a perv asive element required to achieve success 225  Earns trust and respect of others by having a strong understanding of the system\222s technical requirements and assigns work based on the individual\222s skills and abilities.  Understands that not everyone is an \223A player\224 225  Lets team members do their job.  Tells them what has to be done, but not how to do it Possesses SelfConfidence 225  Willing to speak up, regardless of who is present to ensure the most technically sound decision is made for the good of the overall system 225  Demonstrates a positive attitude and exhibits confidence 225  Sits back and listens to group discussions while building models and connections and/or identifying disconnects Has a Comprehensive View 225  Takes responsibility for the whole life-cycle the whole system and all its parts Understands the whole job and that it is never done 225  Strikes a balance between what must happen to obtain success and what must not happen to avert failure Possesses a Positive Attitude and Dedication to Mission Success 225  Encourages a success oriented environment by displaying passion, excitement and enthusiasm about the work and th e challenges faced by the system 225  Is dedicated to mission success by worki ng until the job is successfully completed even if that means working long hours to ensure the job is done 225  Creates a \223can do\224 atmosphere by providi ng positive feedback and is empathetic toward team members.  Encourages others with their \223can do\224 attitude Is Aware of Personal Limitations 225  Seeks guidance from experts.  Knows what they know and what they don\222t know and seeks others to fill in missing data 225  Acknowledges technical limitations to others.  Does this with ease Adapts to Change and Uncertainty 225  Presses on with the project and ensures that the implications of change are addressed throughout the entire system in the face of ever-changing requirements  225  May make decisions with incomplete or imperfect data 225  Understands that change is inevitable and takes appropriate actions quickly.  May assemble other technical experts to brains torm various avenues and approaches to support the change 225  Remains calm under pressure. Looks at things pragmatically and understands what's going on. Doesn't over-react Uses Intuition Sensing 225  Uses both intuition and sensing when evaluating a problem or making a decision Does not rely solely on data.  May use of gut feeling" if data is inconclusive 225  Moves concepts and ideas easily through artificial boundaries.  Uses intuition and the senses to penetrate the system and discover or synthesize solutions to a problem Is Able to Deal  with Politics, Financial Issues, and Customer Needs 225  Is politically savvy.  Understands the larger forces at work.  Studies the political and financial issues and impacts 225  Shares and uses knowledge and expertise that shapes the political and financial environment in positive ways 


  12 225  Balances tasks and deliverables against resources and designs processes that save time and money 225  Possesses the ability to in terface with the customer and successfully lead discussions to create an understanding of system status across various levels, both up, down and across  Table 8 Communication Theme, Competencies, Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Listens Effectively and Translates Information 225  Sees the system from various perspectives Listens and acts as translator between parties \(subsystems, Project, vendors and other customers necessary information from others 225  Communicates project status to management and other key internal and external stakeholders.  Clearly communicates requirements to providers of the subsystem elements 225  Is an excellent listener.  Is keenly aware of what is being said and of omissions Listens for themes that continue to surface.  Then there comes a point where the SE will begin to penetrate by asking questions.  If questions are not adequately answered, the SE will begin to focus on the potential soft spot 225  Listens to identify critical elements or parameters of the problem.  Listens for information that leads to connections be tween system elements and information that disrupts connections 225  Clarifies and simplifies ideas under discussion by offering and/or requesting summation" statements Communicates Effectively Through Personal Interaction 225  Consistently communicates progress and gains understanding from others on what challenges and successes are faced by the systems design.  May meet face to face on a daily, sometimes hourly basis to ensure everyone is in the loop understand the systems requirements 225  Prefers personal interaction over e-mail Uses face-to-face interaction as a primary communication channel to hear concerns, share information, build rapport, create buy-in and create relationships within a team 225  Communicates in a clear and concise manner 225  Facilitates effective communication in t eam meetings and throughout the project by regularly interacting with people on the team and getting them together to ensure everyone is up-to-date  Facilitates an Environment of Open and Honest Communication 225  Welcomes divergent opinions by creating an atmosphere where team members feel the freedom to openly express their opinions.  Encourages and respects differing opinions in order to drive convergence on decisions 225  Promotes open, honest communication by asking questions, protecting proprietary information, protecting minority opinions, and incorporating valuable ideas that are shared in the system design Identifies and takes steps to remove communication barriers that are unique to particular individuals or groups 225  Patiently listens to each of the team memb ers/discipline experts in order to assure that everyone gets heard--that all divers e and dissenting opinions are considered Listens to all who want to speak, does not communicate irritation and does not shut people down 225  Effectively facilitate teams, meetings and disagreements.  Asks clarifying probing and penetrating questions to ensure all information is out on the table 225  Demonstrates accessibility and approach ability by having an open door policy  Uses Visuals to Communicate Complex Interactions 225  Graphically pulls together ideas, issues and observations to better understand and explain all systems and interfaces and to solve complex problems.  Uses visuals such as Venn diagrams, models, pictures, charts, metaphors, archetypes, and other relevant representations, to communicate complex problems or to display the 


  13 interconnections of sub-elements 225  Keeps everyone involved by keeping accurate records of big and small picture aspects affecting the system and distributing information in advance Communicates Through Story Telling and Analogies 225  Uses personnel experiences to build conn ections and provide explanations by using engineering and non-engineering stories and analogies.  For example creates analogies from histor ical events, everyday experiences and \223life lessons\224 to better explain concepts and ideas to others 225  Shares experiences and \223lessons learned\224 with others to support future systems design Is Comfortable with Making Decisions 225  Makes decisions in a confident and timely manner when appropriate \226 with or without complete or optimal information \226 allowing team members to maintain forward progress on their assigned tasks 225  Carefully monitors the impact of deci sions on system performance, backtracking and changing direction if necessary.  When the team's forward progress is not at stake, the SE may choose to postpone decision-making and engage in more detailed analysis 225  Stays on point until ideas are heard, rec ognizes when enough data is gathered to make a decision, and then moves on. Willing to revisit decision if new data warrants it 225  Makes difficult or unpopular decisions, keeping the best interest of the system in mind, weighing the potential risks to team cohesion and interpersonal relationships against system performance  Table 9 Problem Solving and Systems Thi nking Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Identifies the Real Problem 225  Identifies the critical problem to be solved by asking questions and identifying the key requirements 225  Recognizes what is technically right among many good ideas by viewing a problem across system boundaries and co mparing each design to the other 225  Frames the problem in a logical way and identifies resources required to solve the problem efficiently 225  Solves problems with the team by listening for the issue, pinpoints problem areas makes recommendations, and then steps out.  Avoids side trips and unnecessary minutiae and focuses on important issues Assimilates Analyzes, and Synthesizes Data 225  Assimilates and distills large quantities of data and ensures all of the data is on the table to solve a problem or make a decision.  Ensures decisions made are supported with data 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters, prioritizes the parameters, then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution 225  Has the ability to rapidly recall data 225  Approaches and solves problems in a systematic manner by using tools processes, procedures in order to find solutions Thinks Systemically 225  Looks across the entire system and facilita tes trades and compromises to get a balanced design.  Ensures that the integrity of the system as a whole does not suffer because of over optimizing any of the smaller pieces 225  Sees multi-view representations of sy stems to understand how the pieces fit together and interact. Visualizes systems in 3-D. Draws a picture in his or her mind, or on paper 225  Is able to look deep enough into a problem without losing focus on the big picture.  Sees the big picture while at the same time demonstrating an overall awareness of the details 225  Breaks the problem down into smaller manageable parts 225  Understands how the system works, what it was designed to do, its functions and 


  14 requirements. Is able to analyze the systems data. Traces implications of a problem in a step-by-step manner across the system Has the Ability to Find Connections and Patterns Across the System 225  Integrates and provides a connection between the various engineering segments of the project.  Is able to identify c onnections from separate elements of the project that others would not notice and brings these connections to the team's attention as a means to assist in solving underlying issues 225  Examines and explores the implications of how technical decisions being made affect the bigger system architecture Sees the ripple effect of changing requirements or making changes to any element of the system 225  Able to see system interfaces. Identifie s the impact that changes to one subsystem are having--or might have--on other sub-systems.  Locates and corrects sub-system 'disconnects' or 'inconsistencies' that are having a negative impact on system performance Sets Priorities 225  Sets technical priorities in order to maintain the balance for the problems at hand while achieving system requirements Keeps the Focus on Mission Requirements 225  Is focused on developing a system that meets the end-item product objectives and does not lose sight of this while integr ating the pieces of the system into the whole system 225  Studies, understands, and articulates the project\222s overall objectives.  Knows what the system must do and be in order to accomplish its objectives 225  Sets technical priorities with principal investigator and subsystem engineers to achieve system requirements Possesses Creativity and Problem Solving Abilities 225  Enjoys and is energized by fully concentrating on a problem for long stretches until solutions are formed and implemented. Possesses passion for problem solving 225  Takes the initiative to solve the problems 225  Solves problems with the team by listening to the issues, pinpointing problem areas, making technical recommendations; may help implement the solution 225  Does not adhere to rigid rules or formulas for system design, but may create new ideas and approaches that are necessary to deal successfully with system constraints Validates Facts Information and Assumptions 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters.  Prioritizes the parameters then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution by examin ing system and subsystem operations in minute detail.  Recognizing that seemingly minor miscalculations can lead to signifi cant problems in system performance 225  Questions all assumptions that go into the design 225  Looks for, and anticipates, problems or issu es in the system in places that may not be covered with the right kind of data to make a decision 225  Looks for answers that may not be readily apparent from just looking at the data alone.  Does not rely solely on data Remains Open Minded and Objective 225  Receptive to hearing diverse varying opinions.  Is willi ng to re-think/re-work an issue or to change direction when new information or a better idea is presented 225  Evaluates decisions objectively.  Maintains flexibility by avoiding 'ownership' of a particular strategy or point of view Draws on Past Experiences 225  Draws from his or her hands-on experiences to develop the proper feel for succeeding on future projects, knowing when something looks "ri ght" versus "not even close\223 from past successes and failures 225  Solves problems with a balance of innovative developments and proven heritage products.  May rely on experience and ex isting design as guides, but sees each opportunity as a canvas to design new solutions 225  Uses experience, history, intuition, and se nsing in order to assess the situation and develop a solution Manages Risk 225  Uses past experiences to anticipate pot ential problems that may impact system performance 225  Identifies the key indicators and methods of testing for each type of problem 


  15 225  Develops mitigation strategi es for addressing the problems, should they arise 225  Is risk savvy. Understands that risk is perpetual and needs to be managed  Table 10 Technical Acumen Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Possesses Technical Competence and Has Comprehensive Previous Experience 225  Shares his or her project experience, a nd acts as a reliable resource to the team and serves as the \221go to\222 person 225  Demonstrates the depth of technical knowledge and expertise necessary to perform, manage, and coordinate work-related activities 225  Possesses a strong, fundamental understanding of engineering principles along with a cross-disciplinary background 225  Engages specialists for their t echnical knowledge and abilities 225  Demonstrates ability to focus on details while keeping the big picture in mind.  Is able to shift focus between the two with ease 225  Uses an iterative process to refine the design to accomplish the system requirements Learns from Successes and Failures 225  Shares with others lessons learned.  Lessons come from a strong base of engineering experiences acr oss the full life-cycle 225  Documents and studies the successes and failures of both the current and previously developed systems.  Uses this information to make decisions that reduce risk and maximize the probability of success 225  Is willing to learn from past failures as well as successes.  Understands both are important  


  16 Table 11 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator \(MBTI Mental Processes and Orientations [25 Natural energy orientation   Extraverted \(E Face is directed towards the OUTER world of activities, excitements, people, and things 200  Instinctively search for facts and logic in a decision situation 200  Act first, think/reflect later 200  Feel deprived when cutoff from interaction with the outside world 200  Usually open to and motivated by outside world of people and things 200  Enjoy wide variety and change in people relationships Intraverted \(I Face is directed inward to the INNER world of thoughts, interests, ideas, and imagination 200  Think/reflect first, then act 200  Regularly require an amount of "private time" to recharge batteries 200  Motivated internally, mind is sometimes so active it is "closed" to outside world 200  Prefer one-to-one communication and relationships Way of perceiving or understanding and taking in information  Sensing \(S The Sensing side of our brain notices the sights sounds, smells and all the sensory details of the PRESENT It categorizes, organizes, records and stores the specifics from the here and now. It is REALITY based, dealing with "what is." It also provides the specific details of memory and recollections from PAST events 200  Mentally live in the Now, attending to present opportunities 200  Using common sense and creating practical solutions is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall is rich in detail of facts and past events 200  Best improvise from past experience 200  Like clear and concrete information; dislike guessing when facts are "fuzzy Intuitive \(N The Intuitive side of our brain seeks to understand interpret and form OVERALL patterns of all the information that is collected and records these patterns and relationships. It speculates on POSSIBILITIES  including looking into and forecasting the FUTURE  It is imaginative and conceptual 200  Mentally live in the Future, attending to future possibilities 200  Using imagination and creating/inventing new possibilities is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall emphasizes patterns, contexts and connections 200  Best improvise from theoretical understanding 200  Comfortable with ambiguous, fuzzy data and with guessing its meaning Way of forming judgments and making choices and decisions  Thinking \(T The Thinking side of our brain analyzes information in a DETACHED objective fashion. It operates from factual principles, deduces and forms conclusions systematically. It is our logical nature  200  Naturally notices tasks and work to be accomplished 200  Easily able to provide an objective and critical analysis 200  Accept conflict as a natural, normal part of relationships with people Feeling \(F The Feeling side of our brain forms conclusions in an ATTACHED and somewhat global manner, based on likes/dislikes, impact on others, and human and aesthetic values. It is our subjective nature 200  Instinctively employ personal feelings and impact on people in decision situations 200  Naturally sensitive to people\222s needs and reactions 200  Naturally seek consensus and popular opinions 200  Unsettled by conflict; have almost a toxic reaction to disharmony Action orientation towards the outside world     Judging \(J A Judging style approaches the outside world WITH A PLAN and is oriented towards organizing one's surroundings, being prepared, making decisions and reaching closure and completion 200  Plan many of the details in advance before moving into action 200  Focus on task-related action; complete meaningful segments before moving on 200  Work best and avoid stress when keep ahead of deadlines 200  Naturally use targets, dates and standard routines to manage life Perceiving \(P A Perceiving style takes the outside world AS IT COMES and is adopting and adapting, flexible, openended and receptive to new opportunities and changing game plans 200  Comfortable moving into action without a plan plan on-the-go 200  Like to multitask, have variety, mix work and play 200  Naturally tolerant of time pressure; work best close to the deadlines 200  Instinctively avoid commitments which interfere with flexibility, freedom and variety 


  17 Figure 1 MBTI Types Occurring in SEs Studied Across the Agency                                    Figure 2 Preliminary MBTI Results for JPL\222s Highly Regarded Systems E\ngineers   ESFP Performer/Entertainer   ESTP Maneuverer/Promoter   ENTP Inventor/Improvisor    ENTJ Director/Commandant   ISFP Performer/Composer   ISTP Maneuverer/Operator  INTP Inventor/Designer   INTJ Foreseer/Mobilizer   ESFJ Provider/Caretaker   ESTJ Overseer/Supervisor   ENFP Proponent/Messenger   ENFJ Foreseer/Mobilizer  ISFJ Provider/Nourisher   ISTJ Overseer/Inspector   INFP Proponent/Advocate  INFJ Foreseer/Developer NF 3 NT 56 SJ 15 SP 26 SE MBTI types represented across the agency 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


