Instance Data Evaluation for Semantic Web-Based Knowledge Management Systems   Jiao Tao, Li Ding, Deborah L. McGuinness Tetherless World Constellation, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, USA taoj2, dingl, dlm}@cs.rpi.edu    Abstract  As semantic web technologies are increasingly used to empower knowledge management systems KMSs\here is a growing need for mechanisms and automated tools for checking content generated by semantic-web tools. The content in a KMS includes both the knowledge management \(KM\ schema and the data contained within. KM schemas can be 
viewed as ontologies and the data contained within can be viewed as instance data. Thus we can apply semantic web ontology and instance data processing techniques and tools in KM settings There are many semantic web tools aimed at ontology evaluation, however there is little, if any research focusing on instance data evaluation Although instance data evaluation has many issues in common with ontology evaluation, there are some issues that are either more prominent in or unique to instance data evaluation. Instance data often accounts for orders of magnitude more data than ontology data in organization intranets, thus our 
work focuses on evaluation techniques that help users of KMSs to determine when certain instance data is ready for use We present our work on semantic web instance data evaluation for KMSs. We define the instance data evaluation research problem and design a general evaluation process GEP. We identify three categories of issues that may occur in instance data syntax errors, logical inconsistencies, and potential issues. For each category of issues, we provide illustrative examples, describe the symptoms, analyze the causes, and present our detection solution. We implement our design in TW OIE which is an online instance data evaluation service. We perform 
experiments that show that the TW OIE is more comprehensive than most exi sting online semantic web data evaluators  1. Introduction   Knowledge Management Systems have been widely used in various organizations to help users create, capture, store, share, and retrieve information Emerging semantic web technologies w h ich combine the power of conventional semantic technologies and the fast growing World Wide Web are being used to create next generation KMSs The Semantic Web offers a stack of knowledge 
representation languages, such as RDF 1 RDFS 2 and OWL 3 at different levels of expressivity; and associated computing tools that can be used to build collaborative online KMSs. The benefits have been demonstrated by various research efforts such as the On-to-Knowledge Project [9 an d t h e Sk i M sy s t e m of the Swiss life insurance group  Semantic web based KMSs leverage the Web to publish and share knowledge collaboratively. They organize information into two categories: ontologies 
i.e. descriptions of classes and properties\ and instance data \(i.e. instantiations of classes\. For example, the TW wine agent i m p le s e m a n tic  web based KMS, stores wine and food classifications as well as wine recommendation knowledge. The agent can provide aggregated recommendations with explanations. A typical scenario works as follows: a customer Joe wants a wine recommendation for his lobster meal. He consults the TW wine agent and finds the answer a lobster meal pairs well with dry 
white varieties and full-bodied wines match especially well This recommendation may come from the food/wine parings which are encoded in the wine ontology 4 or recommendations from other users He can also contribute his wine recommendations for certain meals to the TW wine agent. In this scenario wine recommendations from different sources are aggregated, and it is important to ensure each wine recommendation is compliant with the restrictions encoded in the wine ontology. This instance 
ontology-conformance problem does not just exist in   1 http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-concepts 2 http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema  3 http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-ref 4 www.w3.org/TR/owl-guide/wine  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


above scenario; it exists in any semantic web based KMS that is expected to conform to the ontology Our earlier survey on online semantic web data  ported th e f o llo w i n g ob serv ations i n ce data is usually published separately in many online RDF documents by different users, and these RDF documents are typically published after the publication of the corresponding ontologies; \(ii\ most RDF documents \(>99%\tain only instance data iii\many ontologies, especially popular ones, are typically carefully designed and free of errors. These observations indicate that, on the semantic web instance statements dwarf ontology \(class and property\ statements.  Further, instance data is more error-prone since often it is generated by different authors at differing times, potentially leading to semantic mismatches This work investigates a novel research problem  semantic web instance data evaluation in KM environments, which complements the work on ontology evaluation in terms of evaluation scope: the latter focuses on consistency and completeness of ontologies; but the former focuses on checking the semantic expectation mismatches between instance data and ontologies, i.e. whether the instance data meets the \(explicit and implicit\pectations of the corresponding ontologies.  Consider the following example mismatch: in the wine ontology, two subclasses of wine:Wine, namely wine:EarlyHarvest and wine:LaterHarvest, are defined to be disjoint Although the wine ontology is consistently defined users may still publish an RDF document introducing inconsistent instance data using the wine ontology e.g. a bottle of wine is typed as an instance of wine:EarlyHarvest and wine:LateHarvest. The same wine ontology also contains the restriction that, all wines have at least one maker. Users may publish instance data on wines that do not include a maker While some tools can find inconsistent instance data such as above wine instances of two disjoint classes, few tools identify problems such as missing maker values in previous example. Our work is aimed to be evaluate instance data suitability for application use and thus. We investigate not only logical inconsistency issues but also some potential issues that may cause application processing challenges. Besides the above missing value for a required property problem \(maker in the example we have also identified a number of potential issues related to data sharing a pplications. For instance when describing a wine instance W, a user may mistakenly assert that the maker of W is wine:Red using the property wine:hasMaker. In the wine ontology, wine:Red is known to have type wine:WineColor. Given the description for W, a reasoner, for example, Pellet, which is a Java based OWL DL reasoner supporting species validation consistency checking and taxonomy classification may infer that the individual, wine:Red also has type wine:Winery. Since the two classes, wine:WineColor and wine:Winery, neither have rdfs:subClassOf nor owl:disjointWith relation, no logical inconsistency will be reported by Pellet.  Our work aims to include these potential issues that are not reported by conventional reasoners such as OWL DL reasoners We then report potential issues as warning messages so that users can notice the mismatches and take appropriate actions The rest of this paper is organized as follows section two reviews related work on knowledge source evaluation and data quality control, in particular, semantic web data evaluation; section three defines semantic web instance data evaluation as a research problem and outlines a generic solution section four elaborates  on the issues, especially potential issues, found in instance data; section five discusses the highlights of our implementation, TW OIE, and evaluates it by comparing it with other evaluation tools; section six summarizes our contributions and identifies future work   2. Related work  Knowledge source evaluation and quality control is a critical issue in KMSs.  In th e au th ors s h o w  the value of data quality and highlight its importance in traditional enterprise KMSs, then present a methodology to improve data quality, from technical and managerial perspectives. Our work addresses the knowledge sources quality issue of KMSs from a technical perspective and focuses on the semantic web setting. In e au t h ors presen t th e i r w o rk o n  the evaluation of a chest radiology semantic data model which represents the chest radiology findings from textual documents and x-ray reports.  However this evaluation is conducted from the aspect of similarity between the semantic model and original documents, and does not address the issue of conformance between the abstract model/schema and actual data. Our work on knowledge sources evaluation uses a semantic web data evaluation approach which aims at checking whether the semantic expectations encoded in ontologies are really embodied in the instance data There is a long history of semantic web data evaluation including both theoretical and practical approaches. However, most work focuses on ontology evaluation emphasizing syntax validation and logical consistency analysis Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


The research on semantic web ontology evaluation has been conducted in multiple directions One direction is syntax validation. The W3C RDF validation service 5 is an online RDF parsing and validation service. It checks whether an RDF document conforms to RDF/XML syntax 6 The validation is backed by the ARP parser of Jena [17    This tool contributes a critical step in instance data evaluation - parsing RDF data to RDF triples Another direction is ontology diagnosis. The merging and diagnosis of large knowledge bases has been explored in h e com p u t ation a l  environment, Chimaera, has a number of tests that includes not only logical consistency checks but also checks for issues such as cycles in ontologies and style issues such as classes with a single subclass which is usually indicative of an incomplete subclass hierarchy\. Chimaera focuses more on ontologies rather than instance data and the released version does not include a full integration with a full expressivity reasoner, thus the widely used version does not provide full logical consistency checking An internal version uses a full first order logic reasoner to check more logical issues The third direction is semantic constraint validation. After the release of RDFS and OWL many tools were proposed to check semantic constraints encoded in OWL and RDFS class descriptions.  Early semantic web data evaluation work extends syntax validation with some simple semantic evaluation of ontology structure, such as detecting cycles in class taxonomy and domain/range mismatch issues.  This line of work can be used to perform initial instance data evaluation. The following work is notable   The ICS-FORTH validating RDF parser \(VRP 7  parses RDF triples from RDF/XML documents and then evaluates the triples using the semantic constraints, such as class hierarchy loops derived from RDFS inferences   In a l 8 was designed to detect some of the three categories of errors, namely inconsistency, incompleteness and redundancy in concept taxonomies represented in RDFS DAML and OWL   The BBN validator 9 leveraged the DAML validator 10 to use limited reasoning to check OWL markup for problems beyond simple syntax errors   5 http://www.w3.org/RDF/Validator 6 http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar 7 http://139.91.183.30:9090/RDF/VRP 8 http://minsky.dia.fi.upm.es:8080/odeval/ODEval.html 9 http://projects.semwebcentral.org/projects/vowlidator 10 http://www.daml.org/validator   The work in ides an ax io m a tic  accounting for RDFS and DAML+OIL reasoning. When encoded in a reasoner that provides declarative encodings of its reasoning Inference Web [1  be u s ed to ex plain logical issues More recent work on semantic constraints validation has focused on OWL logical consistency issues \(i.e. unsatisfiable classes\d OWL species i.e. OWL-Lite, OWL-DL, and OWL-Full identification related issues   While all OWL reasoners can detect inconsistencies, not all can pinpoint the causes of inconsistencies, which is typically needed in explaining evaluation results. Pellet 11 offers OWL reasoner-based approaches  to detect unsatisfiable concepts, inconsistent ontologies and a visualization of  the evaluation results using an ontology editor Swoop. In [2  more recent work on debugging OWL-DL ontologies was covered. In [23,14   d e b uggi n g  consistency in ontology evolution was investigated   The WonderWeb OWL ontology validator 12  identifies the OWL species of a given ontology In th e au th ors fu rt h e r an al y z ed th e cau s e s of OWL-Full vs. OWL-DL classifications. Two main causes are syntax errors and unintended mistakes in OWL usage, such as missing type or incorrect namespace. Their OWL ontology patcher 13 may even suggest strategies to fix the detected issues The fourth direction related to identifying best practice. However such work focused on ontologies rather than instance data.  In [12 th ree categ ories  of issues in concept taxonomies were classified inconsistency, incompleteness and redundancy These issues are further refined to eight subcategories, including logical inconsistency, cycles in class hierarchies, and redundant individual type   In m p t o m o n t o l ogy i s propos ed t o  expose evaluation results for an OWL ontology consistency checking tool, ConsVISor 14 The symptom ontology reports not only syntactic and semantic issues, but also some potential issues in concept-taxonomy   The BioPAX validator 15 performs specific best practices validation.  Before that, it also checks if the given input is a valid OWL document by performing OWL validation   11 http://pellet.owldl.com 12 http://www.mygrid.org.uk/OWL/Validator 13 http://www.mygrid.org.uk/OWL/Patcher 14 http://68.162.250.6:8080/consvisor 15 http://biopaxwiki.org/cgi-bin/moin.cg i/tentative_validator  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 3. Semantic web instance data evaluation  In this section, we define ontologies, instance data and describe the relation between them. We then define the instance data evaluation and present the g eneric instance data e valuation p rocess GEP  3.1. Ontology and instance data  An ontology is an explicit specification of a conceptualization t h e s e m a ntic w e b, an ontology is used to describe "\(i\lasses \(general things\ the many domains of interest, \(ii\he relationships that can exist among things, \(iii\he properties \(or attributes\ose things may have 16   RDFS and OWL are the two primary ontology languages on the semantic web. RDFS allows users to define a concept taxonomy and some simple relations; and OWL offers additional expressive power that allows descriptions of relations between classes, \(e.g., equality, disjointness\ber restrictions \(e.g., exactly one value\nd other descriptions including enumerated class descriptions and property relations. RDFS and OWL are based on the RDF data model which uses URI references to identify resources and represents the information in the form of subject-predicate-object triples Definition 1. Semantic web ontology A semantic web ontology refers to a set of triples that is used to describe classes, properties and their relations Using recommended ontology languages, a class or property is an RDF resource that has been explicitly defined or referenced as a general thing or attribute For example, Wine is a Pota bleLiquid that is made of grapes and has a maker Definition 2. Semantic web instance data Semantic web instance data refers to a set of triples that is used to describe individuals. Using recommended ontology languages, an individual is an RDF resource that has been explicitly described as an instance of a class.  For example, wine:Red is an instance of wine:WineColor Ontology and instance data play different roles in applications. Ontology is used to describe application domain vocabularies and their interrelationships while instance data is used to describe the "ground level" data particular to the application Two extreme cases are notable: \(i\iven a set of RDF triples, an RDF resource may be defined as both a class and an individual; \(ii\iven a set of RDF triples, we don't have enough information to tell if an   16 http://www.w3.org/TR/webont-req/#onto-def RDF resource is a class or individual. The first case can be deemed as an OWL Full example, where the resource can be both an individual and a class.  In the second case, we simply have to gather more information concerning the status of the resource   3.2. Instance data evaluation   While both ontology and instance evaluation processes inspect the syntax issues and semantic issues of the data being evaluated, instance data evaluation focuses on issues caused by instance data and ontology evaluation focuses on the ontology side Before proceeding, we first introduce the notion of  a dataset and its notations. A dataset refers to a set of triples. Its notations are as follows   D: the instance data to be evaluated   O: all referenced ontologies   O': the set of consistent referenced ontologies   DC: the deductive closure of D and O Definition 3. Instance data evaluation Instance data evaluation refers to a process that inspects some input instance data D and its referenced ontologies O O 1 O 2  The referenced ontologies are determined by a function ref \(D\hat recursively loads ontologies that contribute definitions to the terms used in D. This process reports only issues caused by D and ignores the issues that would arise from the ontology in the absence of the instance data  Intuitively, instance data evaluation checks the quality of instance data with respect to its referenced ontologies.  Since ontologies are typically used to describe the relations among different groups of RDF resources and their common properties, they convey certain expectations on the corresponding instances For example, in the wine ontology, the rdfs:range of property wine:hasColor is wine:WineColor which indicates the expectation that the color type of a wine instance should be wine:WineColor or a subclass of it Using this expectation, we may detect mistakes in instance data such as using wine:Sweet as the value of wine:hasColor   3.3. Generic evaluation process  We approach the instance data evaluation problem with a generic evaluation process GEP Given some instance data as input, GEP will first load and parse the input, then load the referenced ontologies, and evaluate the input, then output a list of evaluation reports including syntactic issues semantic inconsistency issues, and optional potential issues. We now describe the GEP evaluation steps as follows Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Step 1 Load instance data D. Unless instance data D is supplied as a text string, GEP needs to load D from either the web or a local file system. Any loading failure will be reported as fatal error and cause termination of GEP Step 2 Parse instance data D into RDF triples.  D is loaded in text format; thus, GEP uses an appropriate RDF parser to obtain RDF triples. Since parsing issues may not be recoverable, this step reports errors as well as warnings. GEP only proceeds when some RDF triples can be parsed Step 3 Load referenced ontologies O = {O 1  O 2  where each O i is an ontology on the Web directly \(using owl:import\ indirectly\(using namespaces\erenced by RDF triples in D. By loading O, semantic web data users may get additional knowledge, including expected constraints about D. GEP will try to load all referenced ontologies and report issues when it cannot load any referenced ontology. GEP will proceed even if no referenced ontologies can be loaded Step 4 Inspect logical inconsistencies. GEP first inspects logical inconsistencies of each O i in O, then drops and reports the inconsistent ones. Then GEP will try to merge the consistent referenced ontologies into one, i.e. O'. If O' is consistent, GEP will further inspect if D and O' together are consistent; otherwise GEP will terminate Step 5 Inspect potential issues in D. GEP first computes the deductive closure of D, i.e. DC INF\(D,O'\which includes all original triples in D and O', and all inferred sub-class among classes and sub-property relations among properties after performing OWL and/or RDFS inference. It is used to \(i\aterialize the class hierarchy built using ontology language constructs and \(ii\minate recursive queries on class and property hierarchies Then GEP inspects different potential issues using corresponding SPARQL query solutions   4. Issues in instance data  Issues in instance data can be classified into three categories: syntax errors, logical inconsistencies, and potential issues. The first two categories are well defined by RDF, RDFS, and OWL specifications and can be inspected by existing tools; therefore we will briefly illustrate examples of these issues. For the third category, the potential issues, we will detail the symptom and causes of the frequently encountered issues. We assume that all referenced ontologies are encoded using OWL-DL, and we will use the wine ontology and instance data to compose examples  4.1. Syntax errors  Semantic web data may be serialized using certain syntaxes, such as RDF/XML, N3, N-Triples Turtle, and RDFa. GEP should be able to choose an appropriate RDF parser for the input instance data and report the syntax errors encountered. Figure 1 shows an example text fragment encoded with RDF/XML syntax. GEP may use the W3C RDF validator to report syntax issues is missing in wine:hasMaker on line4    Figure 1.  Syntax error example  4.2. Logical inconsistencies  Logical inconsistencies depend on the choice of ontology language. They can be automatically detected by an appropriate reasoner. As we assume all referenced ontologies are in OWL-DL, we may use any OWL DL reasoner, such as Pellet, to detect OWL-DL inconsistencies. In Figure 2, individual W is described to have type EarlyHarvest and LateHarvest; however these two types have an owl:disjointWith relation in the wine ontology Logical inconsistency occurs here because the description of W does not conform to the wine ontology, i.e. an individual should not belong to two or more disjoint classes. To resolve this issue, we can either delete W s membership in EarlyHarvest \(or LateHarvest\ise the wine ontology by deleting the disjoint relation between EarlyHarvest and LateHarvest when it is safe and reasonable to do so  Figure 2.  Logical inconsistency example   4.3. Potential issues  When checking the issues in data, OWL-DL reasoners use the open world assumption d assume that missing information will be added later or will be available somewhere else. Therefore they ignore the potential issues because they do not know whether the incompleteness is caused by users Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


mistakes or because the information is temporarily incomplete. As data consumers may impose different constraints on incoming instance data, there is no common agreement on whether a potential issue is harmful or not. In this work, we collect potential issues from frequently encountered practices in instance data that can not be detected by logical consistency checking, provide corresponding repair instructions, and leave the end-users the option of further inspection We focus on potential issues caused by instance data, and identify three sub-categories: \(i\tial issues related to an individual type, \(ii\tial issues related to a property value, and \(iii\er application-specific potential issues. Note that our current list of issues is driven by practical application needs although it is not claimed to be exhaustive Some symptoms of potential issue can be captured by a conjunctive combination of the presence and absence of certain triple patterns in certain dataset. The triple patterns are described by SPARQL 17 query syntax. Our instance data evaluation uses SPARQL as the query language because SPARQL is the W3C recommendation query language for RDF and it fits very well with our problem of search for potential issue triple patterns We use the following variables in triple patterns   c, ? c 1 c 2  a class   p:  a property   r:  an owl restriction   n:  integer value for owl cardinality   i:  an individual   x: an RDF resource  4.3.1 Issues related to the types of individuals  PI-1. Unexpected individual type \(UIT Symptom: Given an individual i, and all of its types {t 1 t 2  in DC, including the declared types and inferred types. Therefore, \(i\ical inconsistency will occur if there is a declared owl:disjointWith relation between a pair of t i and t j  ii\o issue will occur if there is an rdfs:subClassOf relation between any pair of t i and t j iii\T potential issue will occur otherwise Causes: No subset or disjoint relation can be found between two expected types of an individual The types come from: \(i\e types declared in D and O', \(ii\nferred from properties rdfs:domain rdfs:range and owl:allValuesFrom in DC Detection: The following three SPARQL queries Case 1 \(UIT- domain\: Figure 3 illustrates an UIT-domain issue: in instance data D, W is declared   17 http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query to have a value for property madeFromGrape which has domain Wine; however, after importing all referenced ontologies O and performing OWL-DL inference, we find that W is a member of Winery which is not related by subclass or disjoint relation with Wine. The SPARQL query solution to the general UIT-domain issue is in Table 1  Figure 3.  UIT-domain issue example   Table 1.  SPARQL solution for UIT-domain issue    Case 2 \(UIT- range\igure 4 shows an UITrange issue: W has value Sweet for property hasColor after loading O and OWL-DL inference, we know that all wine colors should be instances of WineColor; however Sweet is typed as WineSugar which has no subclass and disjoint relation with WineColor. The SPARQL solution is in Table 2  Figure 4. UIT-range issue example        SELECT  ?i ?p ?x c 1  c 2  FROM  WHERE GRAPH D { ?i ?p ?x GRAPH DC i rdf:type c 1  p rdfs:domain c 2  OPTIONAL c 1 rdfs:subClassOf c 3   c 3 rdfs:subClassOf c 2  FILTER\( !BOUND c 3  OPTIONAL c 2 rdfs:subClassOf c 4   c 4 rdfs:subClassOf c 1  FILTER\( !BOUND c 4  Note: type c 1 i.e. Winery\ not known to be compatible with expected type c 2 i.e. Wine Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Table 2. SPARQL solution for UIT-range issue    Case 3 \(UIT- allValuesFrom\igure 5 demonstrates an UIT- allValuesFrom issue: W has value Rose, which is typed as WineColor, for property hasMaker; however type Winery is expected because of the owl:allValuesFrom restriction on class Wine. The SPARQL query solution is in Table 3  Figure 5. UIT- allValuesFrom issue example  Table 3. SPARQL solution for UIT allValuesFrom issue  SELECT  ?i ?p ?x c 1  c 2  FROM  WHERE GRAPH D { ?i ?p ?x GRAPH DC x rdf:type c 1  i rdf:type c 5   c 5 rdfs:subClassOf ?r r rdf:type owl:Restriction r owl:onProperty ?p r owl:allValuesFrom c 2  OPTIONAL c 1 rdfs:subClassOf c 3   c 3 rdfs:subClassOf c 2  FILTER\( !BOUND c 3  OPTIONAL c 2 rdfs:subClassOf c 4   c 4 rdfs:subClassOf c 1  FILTER\( !BOUND c 4  Note: type c 1 i.e. WineColor\ not known to be compatible with expected type c 2 i.e. Winery  PI-2. Redundant individual type \(RIT Symptom: Given an individual i, assume its types declared in the instance data D are { td 1 td 2  it may also have some types declared in instance data D or the referenced ontologies O' { tdo 1 tdo 2  if any two types td i and tdoj from these two group of types having a subset relation \(not same\ DC, RIT potential issue will occur Causes: An individual is stated to be an instance of a class and its super-class at same time Detection: The solution is shown in Table 4 Figure 6 depicts an RIT issue: W is stated to have types Zinfandel and Wine; however, Zinfandel is found to be a sub-Class of Wine in O; therefore, the type Wine of W is redundant  Figure 6. RIT issue example  Table 4. SPARQL solution for RIT issue   SELECT  i p x c 1  c 2  FROM  WHERE GRAPH D{  ?i rdf:type c 1  GRAPH D+ O' { ?i rdf:type c 2  GRAPH DC  c 1 rdfs:subClassOf c 2  UNION  c 2 rdfs:subClassOf c 1  Note: one type in c 1 and c 2 i.e. Wine\ redundant  PI-3. Non-specific individual type \(NSIT Symptom: Given an individual i, and its declared types { t 1 t 2  in D and O'. If there is a type t i  which has some sub-classes { t i1 t i2  in DC, but i is not known to be an instance of any of the subclasses, NSIT potential issue will occur Causes: An individual is stated to be an instance of a class which is a non-leaf node in the class hierarchy. Usually this is because the instance data author forgets to provide more specific type after assigning the individual a general type, or the author does not know the instance s specific type Detection:  This issue could be detected using multiple queries, checking for membership relations between W and all of the leaf nodes of type t i  Figure 7 shows a NSIT issue: W is a Wine however no more specific type is known even though  SELECT  ?i ?p ?x c 1  c 2  FROM  WHERE GRAPH D { ?i ?p ?x GRAPH DC x rdf:type c 1  p rdfs:range c 2  OPTIONAL c 1 rdfs:subClassOf c 3   c 3 rdfs:subClassOf c 2  FILTER\( !BOUND c 3  OPTIONAL c 2 rdfs:subClassOf c 4   c 4 rdfs:subClassOf c 1  FILTER\( !BOUND c 4  Note: type c 1 i.e. WineSugar\s not known to be com p atible with ex p ected t yp e c 2   i.e. WineColor  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


there are multiples wine subclasses provided in wine ontology, such as Zinfandel, Merlot, etc  Figure 7. NSIT issue example   4.3.2 Issues related to property values  PI-4. Missing property value \(MPV Symptom: Given an individual i that has type c let m be the number of triples \(i p x\ in D, where p is a property. If there is a cardinality restriction in DC requiring all instances of c to have at least n values for property p, MPV issue will occur if m<n Causes:  Violation of the owl:cardinality or owl:minCardinality restriction Detection: We can use two SPARQL queries to detect the MPV issues in OWL-Lite caused by owl:cardinality and owl:minCardinality respectively  Case 1 \(MPV- owl:cardinality\ As shown in figure 8, W has no maker. However, W is expected to have one maker by the referenced ontologies. The SPARQL solution is in Table 5  Figure 8. MPV- owl:cardinality issue example  Table 5. SPARQL solution for MPV owl:cardinality issue  SELECT  ?i ?c ?p ?n FROM  WHERE GRAPH D{  ?i rdf:type ?c GRAPH DC c rdfs:subClassOf r r rdf:type owl:Restriction r owl:onProperty p r owl:cardinality n FILTER \(?n > 0 OPTIONAL {?i ?p ?x FILTER \(!BOUND\(?x Note: individual i \(i.e. W\ missing value for property p i.e. hasMaker  Case 2 \(MPV- owl:minCardinality\: It is similar to case 1. We do not give the details here PI-5. Excessive property value \(EPV Symptom: Similarly, MPV issue would occur if there are more \(i p x\ triples in D than expected by referenced ontologies Causes:  Violation of the owl:cardinality or owl:maxCardinality restriction Detection: This issue can not be resolved by a single SPARQL query. We have to find out all \(i p x triples in DC for given i and p, use owl:sameAs assertions to eliminate duplicate x values, then compute the number of distinct x values and compare it with the number expected by O  Case 1 \(EPV- owl:cardinality\: Figure 9 depicts an EPV- owl:cardinality issue: V has two vintage years Year1990 and Year1998; however V is expected to have exactly one vintage year by O  Figure 9. EPV-owl:cardinality issue example  Case 2 \(EPV- owl:maxCardinality\: It s similar to case 1 except  owl:maxCardinality instead of owl:cardinaliy is used  4.3.3 Application-specific and other issues  There are still some other issues caused by the application-specific expectation failures. These expectations require a flexible and extensible evaluation approach, so that users can customize their own evaluation criteria to check issues beyond syntax logical consistency, and those frequently encountered potential issues. For example, some applications may require instances of some classes to always be named i.e. they must be a URI instead of a blank RDF node In other situations, users may require all instance descriptions to have an annotation property rdfs:label   5. Implementation and evaluation  We have implemented our approach in TW OIE 18  We integrated Jena and Pellet at the JAVA API level for syntax and logical inconsistency issues detection and Pellet and SPARQL for potential issues detection   18  http://onto.rpi.edu/demo/oie  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


In this section we will compare the TW OIE with five related tools discussed in section two: Pellet WonderWeb species validator \(WW\BN validator BBN\al, and ConsVisor  5.1 Experiment setting  Reference ontology loading  Many evaluation tools only load the directly referenced ontologies using owl:import\nd neglect those indirectly referenced ontologies \(using namespace\complete reference ontologies would make some tools incapable of detecting some issues in instance data Our approach loads all of the referenced ontologies first before actually evaluating the instance data  Test files: Instance data test files are generated such that each file contains one kind of issue, and all categories of issues \(syntactic issues, semantic issues and potential issues\ered by the test files. To make up the effect of incomplete referenced ontologies loading of other tools, for each test file D i  we preload all of its referenced ontologies, then merge them with the test file into a new file D i which is used as the actual input data for test.  Since syntax error detection does not requ ire loading reference ontologies, we do not change the original test files The ten test files and associated issues are as follows   D 1 No RDF triples   D 2 RDF triples with syntax errors   D 3 Plain literal missing data type   D 4 Cardinality violation   D 5 Inconsistent individual type   D 6 Unexpected individual type   D 7 Redundant individual type   D 8 Non-specific individual type   D 9 Missing property value   D 10 Excessive property value Test procedures  Each tool is tested with all ten test files and we record whether the tool can successfully detect the issues in the file  5.2 Experiment results  The results are shown in Table 6 where each result entry is denoted by the following notations   Y: the tool can correctly detect the error/issue   N: the tool can not detect the error/issue   PE: exceptions happened in evaluation   5.3 Analysis   Table 6 shows that TW OIE successfully detects all of the issues in the test files. All of the other tools can detect the syntax issues, however, only Pellet can find the semantic inconsistencies. We also determined that if Pellet had used its own referenced ontology loading strategy, it would not have been able to detect the cardinality violation and inconsistent individual type issues. This is because \(i some example instances appear to be in OWL-Full due to the lack of information required to classify an RDF resource into a class, a property or an individual and \(ii\ellet s DL-reasoning is not engaged for these examples. Therefore, we observed that TW OIE outperforms other tools in loading referenced ontologies   Table 6.  Comparat ive experiment results    Test Files TW OIE Pellet WW BBN OD Eval Cons Visor Syntax Issues D1 Y Y Y Y Y Y D2 Y Y Y Y Y Y Semantic Issues D3' Y Y N N N PE D4' Y Y N N N PE D5' Y Y N N N PE Potential Issues D6' Y N N N N PE D7' Y N N N N PE D8' Y N N N N PE D9' Y N N N N PE D10' Y N N N N PE  Among all of the other five tools, no tools can handle the potential issues encoded in the test files Although ConsVisor claimed to check a lot of issues by associating the symptoms with underlying axiom violations, our experimental results show it is not able to detect the semantic inconsistency errors and potential issues in the given test files Through the initial comparative experiment, we have provided evidence that the TW OIE is a more comprehensive evaluation tool which can find not only syntax errors and logical inconsistencies, but also all of the listed potential issues. The other tools may do some error/issue checking, but no one is as comprehensive and powerful as TW OIE on our test cases  6. Conclusions and future work  Effective instance data evaluation is critical to the success of semantic web based KMSs that integrate information from different sources. In this paper we have defined the instance data evaluation problem and suggested a practical general purpose solution GEP. Some frequently encountered potential issues in instance data are identified and then addressed by  the corresponding SPARQL solutions. The solution is Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


also implemented in the TW OIE. Our initial evaluation demonstrates advantages over existing approaches and tools. We have also run the evaluation processes on other semantic web instance data sets such as those used in the Virtual Solar Terrestrial Observatory  In future work, we will capture more potential issues, characterize them with formal logic languages and improve system performance with emphasis on scalability, response time, and friendly user interface  Acknowledgements This work is partially supported by NSF #0524481\(TAMI\ARPA #55300000680\(CALO\002001\(CALO\PI contract number A71249 \(GILA  7. References   K Bacl aw s k i  C J M a t h eu s  M   M  Ko kar J  Letkowski, and P. A. Kogut, Towards a Symptom Ontology for Semantic Web Applications, ISWC, pp. 650667, 2004  2 S. Be c h h o f e r, a nd R. V o lz  P a tc h i ng Sy nta x in O W L Ontologies, ISWC, pp. 668-682, 2004   T  Bern ers-L ee J Hen d l er an d O L a ssi l a  T h e Semantic Web, Scientific American, 2001     C o rch o  A   G  mez-P  rez R G o n zález-Cab e ro  an d  M. del Carmen Suárez-Figueroa, ODEVAL: A Tool for Evaluating RDF\(S\ DAML+OIL and OWL Concept Taxonomies, AIAI, pp. 369-382, 2004   J Davies D F e n s el an d F  v a n Harm elen  T o w a rd s th e Semantic Web Ontology-driven Knowledge Management, John Wiley & Sons, West Sussex, 2003   J Davi es M  L y t r as an d  A  S h et h   S e m a n t i c W eb Based Knowledge Management, IEEE Internet Computing Vol. 11, No. 5, pp. 14-16, 2007   L  Di n g  an d T  F i n i n C h aract eri z i n g t h e S e m a n t i c W e b  on the Web, ISWC, pp. 242-257, 2006  8 N  D r um m ond a n d R  Sh e a re r, T h e O p e n W o rl d  Assumption, Presentation, The Univ. of Manchester, 2006  9 D  Fe ns e l  O n t o log y Ba s e d K now le dg e Ma na g e m e nt Computer, 2002  1 R  F i kes and D L  M c G u in n e ss A n Axio matic Semantics for RDF, RDF Schema, and DAML+OIL, KSL Technical Report KSL-01-01, 2001  1 A  G o m ez-P e rez E v a l u a t i o n o f On t o l o gi es  International Journal of Intelligent Systems, Vol. 16, No. 3 pp. 391-409, 2001  1 A  G o m e z-P e rez S o m e  Id eas an d E x am p l es t o  Evaluate Ontologies, AIA, pp. 299, 1995  13 T  R  G r ube r, A T r a n s l a t i on A pproa c h to Porta b le  Ontology Specifications, Knowledge Acquisition, Vol. 5 No. 2, pp.199-220, 1993  14  P  H a a s e  a nd L  Stoja n ov ic Cons is te nt Ev o l uti on of  OWL Ontologies, ESWC, pp. 182-197, 2005  15 A  K a ly a npur, B P a rs ia E  Sirin  a n d J  A  H e ndle r   Debugging Unsatisfiable Classes in OWL Ontologies Journal of Web Semantics, Vol. 3 No. 4, pp. 268-293 2005  1 D Lo sh in  En t e r p r i se Know l e d g e M a n a ge men t  Th e  Data Quality Approach, Morgan Kaufmann, 2001  17 Mc Bride  Je na A Se m a ntic W e b T oolk i t  I n te rne t  Computing, IEEE, Vol. 6, No. 6, pp. 55-59, 2002  1 D L  M c G u in n e ss R F i ke s J Rice an d S  W ild er  An Environment for Merging and Testing Large Ontologies, KR, pp. 483-493, 2000  19 D  L  Mc G u inne s s  a n d  P   P   da S ilv a  Ex pla i n i ng  Answers from the Semantic Web: the Inference Web Approach, Journal of Web Semantics, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp 397-413, 2004  20 D  L  Mc G u inne s s  P  F o x  L  Cinq uin i  P. W e s t J   Garcia, J. L. Benedict, and D. Middleton, The Virtual Solar-Terrestrial Observatory: A Deployed Semantic Web Application Case Study for Scientific Research, IAAI, pp 1730-1737, 2007  21 J a m e s Mic h a e lis  L i D i ng a nd D e b o ra h L   McGuinness, The TW Wine Agent: A Social Semantic Web Demo, In ISWC Poster and Demo Track \(to appear 2008  22 B   P a rs ia E  Sir i n a n d  A  K a l y a npur, D e b u g g i ng  OWL Ontologies, WWW, pp. 633-640, 2005  23  P P l e s s e rs a nd O  D  T r oy e r Re s o lv ing  Inconsistencies in Evolving Ontologies, ESWC, pp. 200214, 2006  24 R  A  R o c h a  S  M  H u f f  P   J  H a u g  D  A  E v a n s   a n d  B. E. Bray, Evaluation of a Semantic Data Model for Chest Radiology: Application of a New Methodology, Methods of Information in Medicine, Vol. 37, No.4-5, pp. 477-490 1998  25 H  W a ng  M. H o rri dg e  A  R e c t or, N  D r um m ond a n d  J. Seidenberg, Debugging OWL-DL Ontologies: A Heuristic Approach, ISWC, pp. 745-757, 2005  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Figure 15  ISM Data Flow serializer highlighted in yellow the design to ensure the clock-to-outputs of the individual serial signals were all matched indicating that at least on chip the design had no skew Finally we used a test bed layout with HyperLynx to prove that our part to part latencies were within acceptable ranges given the high design speed FPGA Design Rate The FPGA design used to verify the design speed was a relatively simple 8-bit latch and shift register shown in Figure 14 Figure 14 shows that the base clock is twice as fast as the output clock which is meant to simulate a recovered clock This is not necessarily a design requirement but would be necessary if the telemetry clock were an input to the design as was the case on the WISE mission This implies that the maximum frequency given by the timing tool for the design is twice the output clock Figure 14 shows only an 8-bit shift register but naturally depending on how the memory was organized more might be required The more bits used in the shift register the more internal clock skew slows the design If a wider bus were required it would be better to increase the depth of the input registers to maintain a high-speed design as opposed to increasing the number of output shift registers The results of this test were a maximum device clock speed of 336.7 MHz double data rate and a maximum output clock speed of 168.35 MHz in the Actel RTAX2000S as given by Actel Timing Designer This meets our requirement of 150 MHz on the clock signal with a margin of 12 FPGA Design Skew Using this same prototype design and mapping the outputs to physical pins we ensured the pin-to-pin skew was matched This skew is the amount of time it takes the edge to propagate from the internal logic to the physical pin on the part The results were as follows Path 1 gse clk:CLK to GSE CLK P Clock to Out ns 7.014 Path 2 gse clk:CLK to GSE CLK N Clock to Out ns 7.014 Path 3 gse data:CLK to GSE DATA P Clock to Out ns 7.014 Path 4 gse data:CLK to GSE DATA N Clock to Out ns 7.014 The clock-to-output skews are all matched indicating the clock and data signals leave the part simultaneously and no delay is caused by mismatched skew Board Latency Simulation After a preliminary board layout was completed board simulations were performed on the signals from the FPGA to the LVDS repeater and ultimately to the front panel as shown in Figure 16 All of these simulations were performed in HyperLynx Boardsim 8.0 with manufacturer-provided IBIS models for the Integrated Circuits ICs The waveform given in Figure 17 is captured at the FPGA Figure 16  ISM Data Flow buffer highlighted in yellow Figure 17  FPGA LVDS output waveform simulations green/red  single-ended clock at FPGA blue  differential clock at destination The HyperLynx simulation was performed using a signal switching speed of 180 MHz to ensure adequate margin for the desired signal frequencies The rise times given in Table 9 are roughly one-tenth the simulated signal period 5.5 ns at 180 Mhz indicating they will not impede the switching frequency by slowing the time to the threshold voltage at the receiver The simulated scope shots for these signals indicate crisp edges and transitions The receiving part is an LVDS bus repeater meant to protect the radiation-hardened FPGA from any front-panel transients that might inadvertently occur during testing At the input to the repeater the simulated signal waveform is given in Figure 18 The transition regions for LVDS are shown as blue lines in Figure 18 While there is a considerable amount of overshoot 11 


Figure 18  LVDS signals at buffer input difference shown and re\003ections on the signal line from the repeater the transition region of the signal is very clean even simulated at 180 MHz This will easily meet our 150 MHz frequency requirement Signal characteristics are tabulated in Table 9 Signal Rise Time ps Fall Time ps Undershoot mV Overshoot mV Margin mV CLK 729.0 698.4 212 250 288 CLK903.1 685.4 256 150 244 DATA 738.9 702.8 216 250 284 DATA876.4 717.8 256 150 244 Table 9  FPGA LVDS output signal characteristics In addition to signal characteristics and waveforms the signal-to-signal skew was measured at the buffer input Obviously these values should be as small as possible to prevent modifying the board Like most differential signaling modes LVDS requires matched impedance signal pairs to function optimally HyperLynx was used to 002ne tune the termination on each differential pair and to match all of the trace impedances to this termination The skew was minimal Table 10 First LVDS Signal Second LVDS Signal Receiving Rise Skew ps Receiving Fall Skew ps CLK DATA 58.32 50.54 Table 10  LVDS rising and falling skew measured at receiver The Receiving Rise and Fall skews are the values for skew between the two signals as each signal passes the LVDS threshold voltage measured at the FPGA The time difference between these two crossings is the number shown in Table 10 Rise skew is measured on the rising edge and fall skew is measured on the falling edge as illustrated in Figure 19 Figure 19  LVDS receiver slew measurement Given that these skews were measured at 180 MHz skew between signals at 150 MHz will not inhibit data transfer by allowing the clock and data lines to get out of sync 6 C ONCLUSIONS It is clear that there are many places where timing is of great concern in the ISM data 003ow The initial data input is driven by the instrument interface timing the bandwidth of the FPGA FIFO buffers the speed of the formatter FPGA and the bandwidth of write accesses to the 003ash-memory The transmitter side of the data 003ow is dependent on the bandwidth of the read accesses to the 003ash-memory the FPGA FIFO buffer bandwidth the FPGA serializer frequency and the physical signal characteristics of the FPGA to the frontpanel interface A table summarizing all of these bandwidths in the order they occur in the data 003ow is presented in Table 11 Data Flow Block Bandwidth Units INSTRUMENT INPUT FPGA FIFO Buffer Rd BW 1080 Mbps Formatter FPGA Bandwidth 328 Mbps Flash-memory Write Bandwidth 104 Mbps TRANSMITTER OUTPUT Flash-memory Read Bandwidth 866 Mbps FPGA FIFO Buffer Rd BW 1080 Mbps FPGA Serializer Bandwidth 168 Mbps Table 11  Bandwidth summary In order to support our study signal integrity analysis was performed on the portions of the data 003ow affected by physical delays including into and out of the 003ash-memory and from the FPGA to the front panel These physical interfaces are robust enough to support high data throughput rates The ISM is capable of interfacing to an instrument with up to 104 Mbps of continuous data throughput and is capable of 12 


sourcing data to a transmitter at a bandwidth up to 168 Mbps This allows data to be stored to the ISM during the orbital encounter period and downlinked periodically as communications are available R EFERENCES  223R T AX-S/SL RadT olerant FPGAs 224 Actel Corporation Mountain View CA 2008 A v ailable http://www.actel.com/products/milaero/rtaxs/docs.aspx  223Prototyping R T AX-S Using Axcelerator Devices,\224 2003 A v ailable http://www.actel.com/techdocs/appnotes/rtaxs.aspx  223K9XXG08XXM Datasheet 2G x 8 Bit  4G x 8 Bit  8G x 8 Bit NAND Flash Memory,\224 Samsung Electronics 2007  223UT54A CS164245S/SE Schmitt CMOS 16-bit Bidirectional MultiPurpose Transceiver Datasheet,\224 Aero\003ex Corporation Colorado Springs CO 2009 Available http://aero\003ex.com/ams/pagesproduct/prodshirel-16bitlogic.cfm B IOGRAPHY  John Dickinson is a Research Engineer at Southwest Research Institute Having studied Electrical Engineering at Johns Hopkins University with a focus on control systems and signals he began work at SwRI in the Avionics Systems Group of the Space Science and Engineering Division He was the lead Ground Support Equipment GSE Test Engineer for the WISE and Kepler Mission Unique Boards MUB for which he compiled and integrated the GSE hardware developed the test scripts and wrote and veri\002ed the GSE code He is the Lead Engineer for the JUNO JADE Instrument Processor Board a lowpower RAD-HARD 3U Compact PCI single-board computer that utilizes the Atmel LEON2 SPARC v8 processor and provides direct instrument and spacecraft serial interfaces He has supported integration systems engineering and promotional efforts on a variety of programs and is currently pursuing a Master's Degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology Charlie Howard  a Principal Engineer in the Department of Space Systems at Southwest Research Institute excels as system architect and digital designer with particular expertise in FPGA and ASIC design Mr Howard has 002lled an active role in the hardware/software architecture for the MMS Mass Memory Module MMM and is the designer of the Mass Memory Controller FPGA Mr Howard is the architect and designer of WISE Mission Unique Board MUB the Kepler Command and Telemetry Board CTB and the Orbital Express CTB and provided multiple FPGA designs for OE Kepler WISE and MMS As Kepler CTB lead he incorporated new simulation capabilities allowing the customer to verify advanced features of the Kepler CTB prior to delivery As an ASIC and FPGA designer Mr Howard 002lled roles in RTL design functional and gate level veri\002cation for high reliability systems including space telecom and defense applications His other interests are worst-case timing and signal integrity analyses Steven Torno is an Electrical Engineer at Southwest Research Institute He studied Electrical Engineering at the Rose-Hulman Institute for Technology with a focus on digital signal processing and he began work at SwRI in the Avionics Systems Group of the Space Science and Engineering Division in 2009 He was the Ground Support Equipment GSE Test Engineer for a Control and Telemetry Board CTB demo in partnership with ATK Space Systems where he integrated existing GSE hardware with custom test software he wrote and veri\002ed He is currently an Electrical Engineer for the Robotic Lander Test Bed project working on the Low Voltage Power Supply LVPS board He is currently pursuing a Master's Degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Texas at San Antonio 13 


John Wiley 10. McKnight, H.D. and N.L. Chervany. What is Trust? A Conceptual Analysis and an Inderdisciplinary Model. in Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS Beach California 11. Zand, D.E., The leadership Triad - Knowledge Trust, and Power. 1997: Oxford University Press 12. Shaw, R.B., Trust in the Balance. Building Successful Organizations on Results, Integrity and Concern. 1997, San Francisco: Jossey-Bass 13. McAllister, D.J., Affect and cognition-based trust as foundations for interpersonal cooperation in organizations. Academy of Management Journal 1995. 38\(1 14. Levin, D.Z., R. Cross, and L.C. Abrams, Trust and knowledge sharing: a critical combination 2002, IBM Institute for Knowledge-Based Organizations 15. Levin, D.Z., R. Cross, and L.C. Abrams, Why should I trust you? 2002 16. Cook, J. and T. Wall, New work attitude measures of trust, organizational commitment and personal need non-fulfillment. Journal of Occupational Psychology, 1980. 53: p. 39-52 17. De Furia, G.L., A Behavioral Model of Interpersonal Trust. 1996, St. John's University Springfield, LA 18. De Furia, G.L., Facilitator's guide to the interpersonal trust surveys. 1997: Pfeiffer &amp; Co 19. Bakker, M., et al., Is trust really social capital Knowledge sharing in product development projects. The Learning Organization, 2006 13\(6 20. Binney, D., The knowledge management spectrum - understanding the KM landscape Journal of Knowledge Management, 2001. 5\(1 p. 33-42 21. Hansen, M.T., N. Nohria, and T. Tierney, What's your strategy for managing knowledge? Harvard Business Review, 1999. 77\(2 22. Dennis, A.R. and I. Vessey, Three knowledge management strategies: knowledge hierarchies knowledge markets, and knowledge communities MIS Quaterly Executive, 2005. 4\(4 23. Swan, J., et al., Knowledge Management and innovation:networks and networking. Journal of Knowledge Management, 1999. 3\(4 24. Denning, S. What is knowledge management 1998  [cited; Available from http://www.worldbank.org/ks/index.html  or 25. Know-Net. The approach. [Web site] 2000 cited; Available from: http://www.know-net.org 26. Natarajan, G. and S. Shekhar, Knowledge management: Enabling Business growth. 2000 New Delhi: Tata McGraw-Hill 27. Zack, M.H. and S. Michael. Knowledge Management and Collaboration Technologies 1998  [cited; Available from http://www.lotus.com/services/institute.nsf/55013 7bfe37d25a18525653a005e8462/000021ca 28. Wick, C., Knowledge management and leadership opportunities for technical communicators. Technical Communications 2000. 47\(4 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 29. Ribi  re, V., Assessing Knowledge Management Initiative Successes as a Function of Organizational Culture, in Engineering Management and Systems Engineering Department. 2001, The George Washington 


Department. 2001, The George Washington University: Washington DC. p. 158 30. Jennex, M.E. and L. Olfman. Assessing Knowledge Management Success/Effectiveness Models. in 37th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. 2004: IEEE 31. Delone, W.H. and E.R. McLean, Information Systems Success: The Quest for the Dependent Variable. Information Systems Research, 1992 3: p. 60-95 32. Bots, P.W.G. and h. Bruiin. Effective Knowledge Management in Professional Organizations Going by the rules. in 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. 2002: IEEE Computer Society Press 33. Massey, A.P., M.-W. M.M., and T.M. O'Driscoll Knowledge Management in Pursuit of Performance: Insights from Nortel Networks MIS Quaterly, 2002. 26\(3 34. Lindsey, K. Measuring Knowledge Management Effectiveness: A Task-Contingent Organizational Capabilities Perspective. in Eighth Americas Conference on Information Systems. 2002 35. Jennex, M.E. and L. Olfman. A Knowledge Management Success Model: An Extension of DeLone and McLean's IS Success Model. in Ninth Americas Conference on Information Systems. 2003 36. Davenport, T., D.W. De Long, and B.M. C Successful Knowledge Management Projects Sloan Management Review, 1998. 39\(2 57 37. KPMG Consulting, Knowledge Management Research Report. 2000 38. Nelson, K.M. and J.G. Cooprider, The Contribution of Shared Knowledge to IS Group Performance. MIS Quaterly, 1996. 20\(4 432 39. Politis, J.D., The connection between trust and knowledge management: what are its implications for team performance. Journal of Knowledge Management, 2003. 7\(5 40. Teoh, K.K. and M. Avvari, Integration of TAM Based Electronic Commerce Models for Trust Journal of American Academy of Business, 2004 5\(1/2 41. Davis, F.D., Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease Of Use, And User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quaterly, 1989 13\(3 42. McKnight, D.H., V. Choudhury, and C. Kacmar Developing and Validating Trust Measures for eCommerce: An Integrative Typology. Information Systems Research, 2002. 13\(3 43. Bahmanziari, T., J.M. Pearson, and L. Crosby, Is trust important in technology adoption? A policy capturing approach. The Journal of Computer Information Systems, 2003. 43\(4 44. Welch, J., Jack Welch's lessons for success, in Fortune. 1993. p. 86-91 45. Delmonte, A.J. and J.E. Aronson, The Relationship Between Social Interaction And Knowledge Management System Success. Journal of Knowledge Management Practice, 2004. 5 46. Choi, B. and H. Lee, An empirical investigation of KM styles and their effect on corporate performance. Information &amp; Management, 2002 40\(5 47. McDermott, R., Why Information Technology Inspired but Cannot Deliver Knowledge Management. California Management Review 


1999. 41\(4 48. Ribi  re, V., Le r  le primordial de la confiance dans les d  marches de gestion du savoir, in GREFI. 2005, Universit  Paul C  zanne: Aix en Provence \(France 297 49. Williams, S. Building and repairing trust.  2004 cited May 2005]; Available from http://www.wright.edu/~scott.williams/LeaderLet ter/trust.htm   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


21] N. M. Dixon, Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know. Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22] K. Knorr Cetina, The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23] R. J. J. Boland, "An Ecology of Distributed Practice Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24] M. Agar, Speaking of Ethnography. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25] J. Van Maanen, "The Fact of Fiction in Organizational Ethnography," ASQ, vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26] M. B. Miles and A. M. Huberman, Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27] S. R. Barley, "Technology as an Occasion for Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments," ASQ, vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28] M. L. Markus, "Toward a Theory of Knowledge Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29] W. J. Orlikowski, "Knowing in practice:  Enacting a collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science, vol. 13, pp. 249?273, 2002 30] C  sterlund and P. Carlile, "Relations in Practice Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations," The Information Society, vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31] L. A. Suchman, Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication. Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 32] M. S. Ackerman and C. Halverson, "Organizational Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, &amp; Trajectories CSCW, vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33] R. J. Boland, "Information System Use as a hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions, H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





