html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Monitoring  High-Quality Wine Production using Wireless Sensor Networks Giuseppe Anastasi?, Orazio Farruggia  Giuseppe Lo Re  and Marco Ortolani  Dept. of Information Engineering, University of Pisa Via Diotisalvi, 2 - 56122 Pisa, Italy g.anastasi@iet.unipi.it  Dept. of Computer Engineering, University of Palermo Viale delle Scienze, ed 6 - 90128 Palermo, Italy farruggia@dinfo.unipa.it, ortolani@unipa.it, lore@unipa.it Abstract This work reports the experience on the design and deployment of a WSN-based system for monitoring the productive cycle of high-quality wine in a Sicilian winery. Besides providing the means for pervasive monitoring of the cultivated area, the project described here is aimed to support the producer in ensuring the overall quality of their production, in terms of accurate planning of interventions in the ?eld, and preservation of the stored product Wireless Sensor Networks are employed as the sensing infrastructure of a distributed system for the control of a prototypal productive chain; nodes have been deployed both in the ?eld and in the cellar, where wine aging is performed, and data is collected at a central unit in order to perform inferences that suggest timely interventions that preserve the grapes  quality 1 Introduction This paper describes the experience gained during the deployment of a wireless sensor network for the monitoring both of a cultivation of grapevines and of the wine-aging area. The project intended to address the requirements of a high-grade wine producer operating in the Sicilian countryside. The process of high-quality wine production may be resource consuming at various levels, and requires accurate planning; in order to obtain the desired quality, the producer needs to collect as much information as possible about the whole process. In particular, it is widely accepted that a product may be classi?ed as  typical  only if it is endowed with speci?c quality features and if it satis?es speci?c requirements, such as a speci?c geographic origin, controlled quality of the raw product, and accurate selection of productive techniques; consumers  demand is thus nowadays heavily in?uenced by information about origin and quality which may only be obtained by ensuring constant monitoring of the wine production chain, and requires cooperation from different actors, ranging from the agronomist, up to the enologist. This limited chain management process begins with thorough monitoring of relevant quantities in the vineyard, during the growth of the grapes and vines, which results in the collection of a large amount of data from which useful information needs to be extracted. For instance, information could be gained about land composition, the presence of parasites, the in?uence of the application of chemical products. Such information is extremely valuable to the enologist during decision making; for instance, productive factors such as fertilizers, weed killers, may be speci?cally weighted out for a particular cultivation in order to optimize productivity; also, farm machinery may be used more cleverly, with a consequent reduction in production delays and costs However, producing high-quality grapes does not directly translate into high-quality wine; to this end, the product must be accompanied by a complete set of information that can be univocally coupled with the product during its many transformations, and up to the ?nal customer; this may be considered the ?rst step toward the setup of the traceability of the productive chain with the aim of providing the customer, and all the participants to the production with reliable documentation about the product history The project described here aims at improving the quality of the overall winemaking process by using an innovative infrastructure based on Wireless Sensor Networks [6, 1 


infrastructure based on Wireless Sensor Networks [6, 1 The present project proposes a real-time, pervasive, non intrusive, low-cost, and highly ?exible data analysis methodology, and WSNs appear to ?t this goal. Many applications are reported in literature that describe projects where wireless sensor networks have been applied to habitat monitoring, such as in the case of the famous Great Duck IsProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE land project [4]; more recently, WSNs have also been employed in the more speci?c area of farming monitoring and a few preliminary works describe applications for precision agricultrure [2, 7, 3 An immediate advantage arising from the adoption of a WSN-based approach is that corrective actions on the cultivations may be timely and selectively chosen; furthermore the system allows to build a history of past events, and stored data may be analyzed in order to extract potential hidden correlations among the sensed environmental variables and the obtained result. The availability of a considerable amount of precise data, superior to what is commonly attainable through traditional random sampling, allows for the construction of accurate models, and thus favors the proposals of improvements in the cultivation process. This methodology does not merely suggest to increase the granularity of sensing by deploying a large number of sensors in the environment, or to increase the sensing rate; rather the proposed infrastructure offers the possibility of carrying on advanced analysis by acting as a more complex intelligent distributed system. The technical advantages arising from the pervasive control over the vineyard conditions will then allow for a rationalization of the interventions and will result in an increase in the overall quality of produced wine In the present project, we propose the use of two networks, one for the vineyard, and another for the wine cellar The goal is twofold: on one hand, we wanted to monitor the micro-climate at the grapevines, in order to infer potential correlations with the macro-climate of the entire vineyard, while on the other we want to provide some traceability capabilities. In other words, the framework does not merely allow for  real-time  data gathering and monitoring but also provides some of the basic functionalities that may expanded to obtain complete product traceability, from the grapes to the bottle The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the considerations that motivated our work The architecture of the whole system is described in Section 3, and Section 4 reports the design choices for the hardware, and some considerations about the implemented routing, and data gathering strategies. In Section 5 the actual deployment is described in detail, and ?nally Section 6 reports our conclusion and gives some directions on the ongoing work 2 Project Scope and Goals The quality of wine depends on many elements, besides the selection of the variety of grapes, the training system and the pruning technique. In particular, in?uencing factors are the local and global environmental parameters, and the cultivation techniques performed in the vineyard Vineyards are typically organized into a hedgerow system, which is characterized by a supporting structure made up of zinc-plated iron, wooden, or concrete poles, and some lines of steel wires to hold the vine canopy. The microclimate of the grapevine is thus affected by the environmental conditions of a limited area along each of the poles where the vine grows; it is typically measured by monitoring the parameters that affect the growing and ripening of grapes, such as air temperature, relative humidity and solar irradiation. For instance, light exposure directly affects sugar accumulation in the grapes and, thus, their quality; temperature is also a very important factor for the 


quality; temperature is also a very important factor for the vegetative-productive growth, as it greatly in?uences the ripeness, and weighs upon the quality of wine in the period from ?owering to ripening. Finally, it is also important to monitor relative humidity, since at certain period of the year, when the water vapor condenses producing dew, it does not bring any bene?t to the grapevine, but rather facilitates the germination of some dangerous fungi that will pave the way for some dangerous infections that will be spread by the spring rainfalls On the other hand, wind increases the evapotranspiration in the vineyard, thus in?uencing the water balance of the plant-soil system and causing problems of water stress This can be overcome by conveniently planning the irrigation schedule, but it obviously requires constant monitoring of weather conditions; moreover, wind can usually be regarded as a factor in?uencing the whole cultivated area rather than the individual plant One of the goals of the project described here is to gain insight on potential relationships among the macro-climate of the entire vineyard, and the micro-climate on each vine in order to support the agronomists in deciding on the most appropriate interventions to be taken during the growing phase of the plants. Among these, probably the most in?uential are the cultivation techniques, such as soil management, pesticide treatments, green pruning, and harvest Soil management concerns all the operations aimed to improve soil fertility, such as for instance digging the super?cial layer in order to remove the infesting plants, break the capillary pores, and air the soil; it thus modi?es the micro-climate of the grape cluster and the vegetation. Pesticide treatments distribute chemicals on the canopy in order to ?ght against biotic adversities, which are likely to occur when exact values of temperature and relative humidity happen in certain phases of the vegetative-productive growth of the plant. Finally, green pruning and mechanical or manual harvesting also greatly in?uence micro-climate variations in different parts of the vegetation; the former consists in cutting the terminal part of the buds falling down between the rows and upon the structure of the hedgerow, while in the latter case, the grapes, or the whole clusters, are taken away The detachment of the berries, in particular, causes a grape juice production varying with temperature and relative huProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 Figure 1. The system architecture midity values present during the harvest Although the actions undertaken in the ?eld improve the quality of the produced grapes, it is nonetheless of the highest importance to control also the process of bulk aging in the cellar. High-quality wines, and red wines in particular are usually aged in small wooden barrels containing roughly 500 l in order to be enriched with the tannic acids present in the wood; those acids give the wine its particular ?avor, and allow for better conservation over time. Bulk aging in the barrels is a particularly critical phase in the whole production chain, and the containers must undergo strict controls on a weekly basis, in order to be re?lled to make up for evaporation of the liquid, so as to prevent unwanted variations of certain chemical factors that could compromise the content of the entire barrel. Wasting a barrel may represent a huge loss for the winemaker, as each of them could yield up to 700 bottles so, in order to constantly and effectively check the barrels, those are usually moved around the storage area; the con?guration of the cellar is thus everchanging and this may lead to dangerous variation of the micro-climate in different parts of the cellar In order to ensure a pervasive monitoring of temperature and relative humidity in such environments, a wireless sensor network was designed and integrated with the conditioning system of the cellar so that sudden anomalies may be readily reported, and the functioning of the whole system 


be readily reported, and the functioning of the whole system may be optimized 3 The System Architecture A functional description of the system architecture through its composing blocks is shown in Figure 1, where two different networks may be identi?ed. According to the projects requirements, both the indoor, and the outdoor areas of the winery needed to be monitored; two independent wireless sensor networks have thus been deployed, the former one targeting the wine cellar, where ambient conditions must be constantly kept under control, whereas the latter is concerned with monitoring of selected measurements in the vineyards. Data is separately collected by each network and is eventually gathered at a central storage unit, located in the administrative building. Collected data is to be subject to further analysis in order to extract useful information that serves as the basis for an expert system providing support to the decisions of the end user In the vineyard, sensor nodes were deployed along the vine rows; the current deployment has been limited to a prototypal system covering only a fraction of land right across the administrative building, amounting to about 20  40 m Although the prototype includes a limited number of nodes it will be increased in order to potentially cover the whole extension of the vineyards. Sensor nodes placed along the rows of grapevines form a connected multi-hop network as the network needs to run unsupervised, and nodes are battery-powered as is typical in those cases, they have been programmed to run a data gathering protocol oriented to energy saving. An additional node, placed at the border of the ?eld, is devoted to monitoring of macro-climate related quantities; this node has also been selected to act as the base station. Nodes in the vineyard are equipped with sensors for registering temperature, light exposure, and humidity; furthermore, additional sensors are placed at the border of the eld for monitoring the same quantities, but with reference to the overall area, and additionally wind speed and direction Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 Table 1. The sensors used in the project and their characteristics Measure Sensor Characteristics Si Photodiode with spectral response range ?: 320  730 nm Light Hamamatsu S1087 Peak sensitivity wavelength ?p 560 nm Photo sensitivity S \(A/W Infrared sensitivity ratio 10 Temperature range: -40 ?F \(-40 ?C 123.8 ?C Temperature Temp. accuracy: +/- 0.5 ?C @ 25 ?C and Sensirion SHT11 Humidity range: 0 to 100% RH relative humidity Absolute RH accuracy: +/- 3.5% RH Low power consumption \(typically 30 ?W wind speed Wind speed range: 0  180 Km/h, precision: 1.5 m/sec and MTX VO 009 voltage 12 Volt, typical current draw: 9 mA direction wind direction range: 0  360?, precision: 1 voltage 12 Volt, typical current draw: 9 mA The framework has been completed with a second wireless sensor network deployed in the area where wine aging is performed. The goal there is to provide a tool for monitoring and optimizing the environment conditions in order to ensure homogeneous quality to the barrels regardless of their position in the cellar. Wireless nodes in the wine cellar have thus been equipped with sensors for monitoring temperature, and relative humidity Both networks gather sensed data at a central processing unit, where inferences are carried on in order to provide timely warnings in case of anomalous events that could degrade the quality of the grapes or of the wine. The underlying idea is that over time we will collect enough data from both areas, so that we will also be able to extract correla 


both areas, so that we will also be able to extract correlations between them in order to provide some simple traceability; for instance, interventions such as pruning, or pesticide application, will be recommended by the system when necessary, properly described and logged, and ?nally traceable by the end user that would then be able to track their in?uence on the quality of the ?nal product 4 Design Choices Different kinds of sensor nodes have been employed throughout the project in order to comply with the diverse requirements relative to the two considered areas. Commercially available boards have been used in order to speed up the design process; however, they had to be customized for the presence of application-speci?c sensors At the earlier stage of the project, during the requirements elicitation phase, the agricultural engineers had pointed out that the two most relevant factors for the development of healthy grapes are temperature, and solar radiation. The former one greatly in?uences the ripening; in the time period ranging from blooming to fruit ripening, it affects the quality of the wine to be produced, and is bene?cial only when con?ned within a limited range of values; the latter, on the other hand, has more in?uence on the speed and duration of the grapevine growth. Finally, the importance of measuring the relative humidity in the cellar is related to the fact that upon reaching the saturation point, the water vapor contained in the air condensates into dew which, in summer or spring time, is not bene?cial to the vine as it facilitates the growth of dangerous fungi that may later cause infections, such as blight Nodes have thus been equipped with the corresponding sensors; in particular, for the vineyard the Hamamatsu S1087 light sensor, and the Sensirion SHT11 combined temperature/relative humidity sensor have been used; their characteristics are summarized in Table 1. The light sensors, in particular, are able to measure what is called Photosynthetically Active Radiation \(PAR tral range of solar light from 400 to 700 nanometers that triggers the photosynthesis process in plants, and roughly corresponds to the range of visible light for the human eye As regards the processor and radio units, the TelosB nodes, produced by Crossbow, have been selected as they offer good performances in terms of transmission range moreover they already come with an integrated sensor board containing the sensors necessary to sense micro-climaterelated quantities. The wind speed and direction sensor on the other hand, had to be manually integrated in this architecture, so we made use of an MDA300 data acquisition board, also provided by Crossbow, that allows for easy integration of external sensors, and may be coupled with a MICAz mote. It also includes an onboard temperature/humidity sensor of the same kind as those described above, so it is perfectly suited for serving as the  macroclimate sensor  and may also act as the base station for the TelosB nodes as described later in this section Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 Table 2. Characteristics of the different types of sensor boards employed in the project CPU RadioSensor Energy per Sleep Memory Energy Idletype Description computation power Description per bit power M ic aZ ATMega128 4 nJ/instr 128KB RAM CC2420 250Kbps 8 bit 31 mJ/beamform 30 ?W 512KB Flash IEEE 802.15.4/Zigbee 430 nJ/b 7 mA Te lo sB TIMSP430 Active power 48KB RAM CC2420 250Kbps 16 bit 3 mW 15 ?W 1MB Flash IEEE 802.15.4/Zigbee 430 nJ/b 7 mA St ar ga 


ga te Intel PXA255 1.1 nJ/instr 64MB SDRAM Orinoco Gold 11Mbps 32 bit 1 mJ/beamform 20 mW 32MB Flash 802.11b 90 nJ/b 160 mA For the cellar area, only the temperature and relative humidity needed to be monitored; in this case MICAz motes have been used, coupled with an MTS310 sensor board which includes, among others, the same Sensirion SHT11 sensor as the TelosB motes The nodes  behavior has of course also been customized for the speci?c application. The sensing rate of each node was not required to be particularly high and was set to 4 times per hour, which appears to be reasonable also for the goal of maximizing the network lifetime Nodes in both networks communicate on a IEEE 802.15.4 link, but at the application layer a specialized protocol was designed in order to ensure robust data gathering, while limiting energy consumption. In order to optimize the overall network lifetime, we exploited some of our previous research experiences in the ?eld of data gathering for WSNs, and implemented a customized version of our protocol for robust and energy-ef?cient data gathering on the nodes of both networks. As already explained, although the deployment of the nodes is statically set, both environments present dynamic characteristics, so that transmissions may still incur in losses Our previous work has proposed a network-layer protocol for WSNs based on the IEEE 802.15.4 standard [5 the protocol was devised to provide reliable data gathering in latency-constrained applications, and exploited both the exibility of the IEEE 802.15.4 MAC layer and features of data aggregation techniques, such as implicit acknowledgment of reception. The proposed protocol acts as a routing module and a control entity for the MAC layer and provides reliable communication, while managing power saving and synchronization among nodes. Without relying on MAC-layer acknowledgments, it implemented caching and network-layer retransmissions, triggered upon detection of a link failure. The performance of the proposed approach is studied through simulations, in which we evaluate the achieved reliability and the energy consumption with varying network settings A ?nal consideration regards the connection between each network and the data storage server; in the case of the VineyardWSN, this was realized thorough a WiFi channel in order to allow for future extension of the same monitoring structure to nearby ?elds; the bridge between the IEEE 802.15.4 network and the WiFi one is realized by a Stargate board, equipped with both interfaces. On the other hand, the con?guration of the considered environment allowed for a simpler cabled connection \(via a Mote-toEthernet interface board 5 Experimental Scenario As already mentioned, the project site was a winery in the countryside of South Italy, where Nero d  Avola, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Syrah, Chardonnay, Fiano, and other experimental varieties of wine are produced in about 110 ha of vineyards. The estates also include a rural building hosting the administrative of?ces, and a basement with the wine cellar; In the cellar about 4000 hl of wine may be contained in steel vessels; moreover, a separated area is dedicated to store up to 1500 wood barrels for bulk aging In the following, the details of an actual deployment will be described 5.1 Deployment Settings Different types of nodes were deployed in the two main areas to be monitored, and the characteristics of their processors boards and radios are summarized in Table 2 Figure 2 shows a picture of the actual deployment in the vineyard. Fifteen nodes were positioned so as to cover a representative portion of the ?eld; they were arranged along every other hedgerow, and tied to the poles holding the canopy. The distance between the hedgerows is 2.20 m 


canopy. The distance between the hedgerows is 2.20 m Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 Figure 2. The WSN deployment in the vineyard Figure 3. Schema of the deployment in the vineyard while iron poles are 80 cm apart from each other. Three nodes were positioned on each pole at different heights namely, at 60, 90, and 120 cm surements about the micro-climate at the productive area of the grapevine, measurements about the micro-climate of the leaf-covered area, measurements from the top of the green canopy to be used as reference for the lower areas; all nodes were TelosB motes equipped with light, temperature, and relative humidity sensors The same set of sensors, except for the one measuring light exposure, was replicated in a node located externally to the monitored ?eld, whose purpose was to provide indicative comparison values for the same parameters, but globally referred to the macroclimate of the whole ?eld Additionally, this node gathers measurements for two parameters, namely wind speed and direction, that in?uence the global equilibrium of the cultivation by affecting, for instance, soil transpiration A schematic description of the deployment of the sensor nodes in the vineyard is reported in Figure 3 In the wine cellar, twelve nodes were deployed as shown in Figure 4; nodes were attached to the concrete columns in the peripheral area of the roughly 20  25 m room. The Figure 4. The WSN deployed in the wine cellar node with ID 107 \(in the uppermost part of the ?gure placed in correspondence to the only exit of the air conditioning system; the system is regulated by an on-off switch triggered by a sensor also located close to this exit; this results in a controlled temperature only for the nearby area whereas it is impossible to ensure homogeneous conditions in the whole room. The setting of the sensor nodes was thus chosen in order to investigate the more remote areas of the room, where barrels are also stored. The central area in the ?gure is where most of the barrels are kept, in metallic structures holding three rows of barrels on top of each other; as described earlier, it is periodically necessary to move them around so that the environment topology is not know a-priori. Sensor nodes that are shown in pairs in the gure were placed on the same column at different heights 50 and 100 cm ing of the required quantities 5.2 Project Assessment As already pointed out, the prototypal tool developed in the context of this project is meant to provide some basic traceability to the wine producer. The speci?c application context, though, requires that an assessment of its validity may be done only after a signi?cant amount of data is collected. At the moment, we are able to observe the correct behavior of the system in terms of its basic functionalities such as fault resilience, limited energy consumption, and adaptability, although a more precise validation might only Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 be possible in the short period \(at the end of the next grape harvesting season sible in two-years time when correlations might be inferred between the quality of the produced wine and the data acquired during the process of grape growth, and wine aging in the barrels 6 Conclusion and On-going Work This paper presented the experience maturated during the design and deployment of a prototypal WSN-based system for monitoring the productive cycle of high-quality 


tem for monitoring the productive cycle of high-quality wine in a Sicilian winery. As has been discussed, the project is already functional and data is being collected and stored some preliminary analysis on the collected measurements has already triggered the wine producers to perform corrective actions on the ?eld \(in particular, the values of temperature and relative humidity signaled the possible occurrence of a fungi infection, and corresponding measures were undertaken On-going work is being carried on in order to investigate the possibility of enhancing the existing prototype with additional sensors; for instance, to measure soil temperature and moisture in the vineyard, thus getting a more precise picture of the factors in?uencing the growth of grapes The project generated relevant feedback also for what regards the monitoring of the conditions of barrels in the cellar; in this case, the project will be expanded in order to provide more sophisticated visual tools that will allow the wine producer to remotely assess and control the conditions of the cellar room via an integrated system of sensors and cameras 7 Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank the Dept. of Agricultural Engineering and Technologies \(I.T.A.F of Palermo, and Aziende Agricole Planeta for providing the expertise and the project site, and EngiSud S.p.A. for their support during the deployment phases of the project References 1] I. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam, and E. Cayirci. A survey on sensor networks. IEEE Communication Magazine 40\(8  114, Aug. 2002 2] A. Baggio. Wireless sensor networks in precision agriculture In Proceedings of the ACM Workshop on Real-World Wireless Sensor Networks \(REALWSN 2005 3] F. Chiti, A. De Cristofaro, R. Fantacci, D. Tarchi, G. Collodo G. Giorgetti, and A. Manes. Energy ef?cient routing algorithms for application to agro-food wireless sensor networks In Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on Communications. ICC 2005., volume 5, pages 3063  3067 American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers 2005 4] A. Mainwaring, D. Culler, J. Polastre, R. Szewczyk, and J. Anderson. Wireless sensor networks for habitat monitoring. In WSNA  02: Proceedings of the 1st ACM international workshop on Wireless sensor networks and applications, pages 88  97, New York, NY, USA, 2002. ACM 5] D. Messina, M. Ortolani, and G. Lo Re. Achieving robustness through caching and retransmissions in IEEE 802.15.4-based wsns. In Proceedings of 16th Int. Conf. on Computer Communications and Networks. ICCCN 2007, pages 1117  1122 IEEE, 2007 6] V. Rajaravivarma, Y. Yang, and T. Yang. An overview of wireless sensor networks and applications. In Proceedings of the 35th Southeastern Symposium on System Theory, pages 432  436. IEEE, 2003 7] Z. Zhang. Investigation of wireless sensor networks for precision agriculture. In Proceedings of the 2004 ASABE Annual Meeting. American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 pre></body></html 


overnight. The nurses briefly discuss each patient and Karen will fill out a pink note card on each of her female patients and a baby blue one for the boys. On Anna?s pink note card she records Anna?s name, age record number, room number, weights, and ?bronch obstructions, 02, nebs Q2, No surgery consult today social: mother today. This translates to: Anna?s breathing is labored. She should be kept on oxygen O2 The surgery consulting team was supposed to check if she needed to have her airways corrected but they canceled today. Anna?s mother will be in today, which offers Karen an opportunity to talk with her about Anna?s progress and when she is likely to go home. At the end of the meeting Karen and the rest of the day nurses slip small piles of notes cards into their uniform breast pockets and collect the management plans spread over the conference room table The rest of the day Karen uses the note cards to structure her work. When asked if she wants to join a small group of nurses for lunch she fetches her note cards and flips through them. ?Give me 20 minutes, I just have to give the small bronch girl \(Anna nebulizer treatment.? As the day progresses Karen updates her note cards. For instance, she notes the surgery consultant?s new appointment and the frustration Anna?s mother expressed about Anna?s long hospitalization. Karen also uses the note cards when filling out her flowsheets and other documents or to record Anna?s latest test results, changes in her medication and treatment plans Document Cycle Length of Shift Nurse Report Meeting Lab Work Progress Notes Orders Request Form Request Forms Social Work Orders Lab Work Flow Sheet  Figure 2. Nurse Document Cycle: Lengths of Shift In the late afternoon Karen gathers her patients management plans and updates them based on her note cards. There might be changes in medication, new procedures scheduled, test results, or treatment regiments. Just before 7PM, the night nurses start showing up and they gather in the nursing conference room with a clean pile of pink and blue note cards and newly updated managements plans. Karen drops her brain notes in a trash bin ? heading home The interns and senior residents enact comparable document cycles entrained to their respective shift schedules. Marc and the other interns generate a fresh set of brain notes by printing individual patient entries from the resident note system. Elisabeth and the other senior residents organize their senior notes and private brain notes the same way. Thus, the management plan the online resident notes, and senior notes get updated twice a day 4. 3 Oscillation: Broader &amp; Narrower Framing 


4. 3 Oscillation: Broader &amp; Narrower Framing Within each of the document cycles performed by Karen, Marc, Elisabeth and their colleagues on 10 East we find an oscillation between documents targeting broader and narrower configurations of participants times, places and content. Each of these four elements will be discussed in turn 4.3.1 Participants. Each document targets a particular audience and demarcates a group of participants in Anna?s and the other patients? care. As Karen, the nurse, creates her note cards based on the management plans, she moves from a communal Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 audience consisting of all the nurses in 10 East to an audience of one ? herself. Toward the end of her shift she reverses the movement by updating the communal document based on her private notes. Likewise, we find a shift in the participants demarcated by each document genre. As seen in Figure 3, the management plan outlines not only the primary nursing team involved in Anna?s care, but also the physicians primary care providers, community agencies, and consultants involved in the care, as well as important phone numbers of relevant family members or legal guardians. Karen?s private note cards, in contrast denote only the people relevant for Karen?s work that day. As illustrated in Figure 4, Karen includes Anna?s name and a reference to her mother and the surgery consult. Similarly, Marc alternates between the private brain note and the resident note system used by the four interns currently working on 10 East. When Marc moves from the communal resident note system to the discharge summary he further broadens the audience and participants targeted by the document. The discharge summary encompasses a larger and relatively undefined audience, including primary care doctors, nurses, secretaries, possible clinical researchers, and future care givers, in the case that Anna should ever be hospitalized again 4.3.2 Time &amp; Place. The temporal and spatial references change as we move through each document cycle. Karen?s note cards outline a relatively narrow temporal and spatial field for her activities within her 12-hour shift ? guiding her unfolding practices: ?is it time to go for lunch yet?? ?Do I have time to take one more patient before I meet with Anna?s mother Should I give Anna her nebulizer treatment while I care for Beatrice in the adjacent room?? When she updates the management plan she positions these in a significantly broader spatio-temporal field. The management plan includes references to not only current activities, such as medication but also activities pointing to the past and future, as in the case of a concise medical history, tests, discharge procedures and training, or outpatient care arrangements \(see Figure 3 temporal and spatial references as he uses his brain notes to update his resident note or when he writes Anna?s discharge summary based on the resident note Marc?s brain notes demarcate a temporal and spatial field for his work during a shift. The resident note system encompasses Anna?s stay on 10 East and her discharge summary narrates her care trajectory including care at 10 East and possibly recommended follow up care 4.3.3 Content. As the doctors and nurses write and rewrite documents to address different participants times and places they also oscillates between the type of content, i.e., facts, terminology, level of detail, and contextual clues appropriate for each audience. As Karen fills out her note cards during nurse report she 


crafts documents focusing on her immediate work practices and with minimal contextual clues. Karen?s note card on Anna \(see Figure 4 basic information Karen?s needs to administer Anna?s care. For instance, the card lists Anna?s record number and weight ? all central when Karen fills out a new flow sheet or check if Anna?s medication dose is appropriate. The rest of the note card constitutes a simple itinerary of activities Figure 3. Nurse?s management plan Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Karen does not need to specify these activities in any more detail. With seven year tenure on the ward she knows the nurses? work rhythm by heart. There is no need to specify Anna?s medical history, nor the times she requires oxygen or nebulizer treatments Karen relies on a non-verbal understanding and simply uses her notes as a scaffold to support her unfolding practices. The doctors use their brain notes in a similar fashion. Referring to his brain notes an ER intern explains No one else is going to understand what this means. This is very specific to what I do. Most people just jot notes to themselves -- you know: '5 year old, nasal foreign body, 10 days out of 21 days thick discharge, yellow green, treat with XYZ contact primary.' There is no time line in it; there is no thought process. I know what this means because I am here. But no one else will be able to make sense of it Anna Hauge #846 R8 2 Mos 5.6 kg Bronch obstructions O2 nebs Q2 No surgery consult today Social: mother today  Figure 4. Karen?s brain notes As indicated by the intern these private notes only work for their author. By the end of a shift the intern will update the resident note and add clues which will orient his fellow interns. Still these remain rather vague and rely heavily on the interns shared knowledge of the patients and the rhythm of work on the ward. In Karen?s case, she adds context clues as she edits the management plan. To motivate changes to Anna?s diet or personal needs she may add to the concise history? field of the management plan. She will only add changes that she deems important to her close community of nurses at 10 East. She writes when the surgery team meeting is scheduled, but she will only summarize her meeting with Anna?s mother if information relevant to the nurses? comes to light Towards the end of Anna?s hospitalization the same process takes place. The resident note system largely consists of a list of patient identifiers and activities. In the process of writing Anna?s discharge summary Marc strips away these local coordination tools and adds contextual information by positioning Anna?s care on 10 East as the culmination of a narrative starting with her past medical, family history, and diagnosis upon arrival in the hospital The rest of the discharge summary reviews what is considered relevant organ groups for Anna?s case or rather relevant sub-specialties involved in her care while at 10 East. In the process of writing the discharge summary Marc adds genre clues broadly accepted in the medical community, involving formatting, and terminology. Senior residents and attending doctors often scold interns for using acronyms and lingo specific to Kiltham Hospital in 


acronyms and lingo specific to Kiltham Hospital in their discharge summaries. Marc is literally making Anna?s history public and portable by turning the resident note list into a narrative with full sentences and specification of authorship. The document cycle is completed Documents oscillate between broader &amp narrower explication Participants Times Places Content Format Background knowledge Explicit Documents Br oa de r N ar ro we r N ar ro we r Br oa de r  Figure 5. Document cycles and their oscillations As summarized in Figure 5, we can depict the two document cycles as a continuous oscillation between a broader and narrower framing of Anna?s care. The daily cycles \(small cycles cycle covering Anna?s stay at 10 East. These oscillations involve changes to how broadly and narrowly the documents explicate participants, times places, and content. The cyclical integration mitigates the tension between a documents power to explicate its use and the background knowledge people bring to the document. The two triangles in Figure 5 signify the inverse relationship between documents and users. In the top of the cycle we find documents broadly explicating the relevant participants, times places, and content, thus facilitating understanding by people holding little background knowledge. As we move down in the cycle we see a shift towards documents leaning heavily on users? intimate knowledge of the work but which offers little guidance to the reader 4. 4 Dialog at Beginning &amp; End of Cycles At the beginning and end of each document cycle one finds interactions involving oral communication The dialogs engage the participants in reflections about their patient?s past and future care and stand out as central to the oscillation taking place within each cycle. Doctors and nurses place great emphasis on these meetings. When two interns were asked Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 what time of day they considered the most important they answered in unison: ?Sign-out.? Here, the doctors update their respective resident and senior notes. Each intern and senior resident will report on their patients to their on-call colleague, the doctor 


their patients to their on-call colleague, the doctor staying in the hospital over night. Their conversations focus on the patients that need the most attention during the night, difficult orders and other urgent tasks. It is a time to recount the work done in the course of the day and establish an itinerary for the night. Likewise, the other meetings engage the participants in dialog about individual cases and/or how to manage all patients under their collective care Tensions tend to escalate when a document cycle does not start or end with a reflective encounter Interns quarrel locally about the content of their resident notes during sign-out and attending doctors scold residents during rounds; but it is nothing compared to the anger doctors and nurses express when receiving a document from another setting countering their expectations and with no chance to clarify the problem Primary care doctors regularly complain that the discharge summaries that they receive from other health care settings lack information significant to them. One primary care doctor, Frida, with 18 years tenure grumbled one afternoon about a discharge summary, she had received that afternoon from a surgeon who had set her patient?s leg after a skiing accident a few days earlier. The teenager, Jacob showed up in her clinic with a swollen leg and a rash After examining Jacob, Frida explained to the ethnographer This is a crappy note [from the surgeon]. It?s no help to me. He [the surgeon] does not even tell me what antibiotic he gave Jacob [post operation] and how much. I have no way of telling whether the rash he presents with today is related to the antibiotics Frida calls the surgeon?s office to clarify the issue. The surgeon has left his clinic at 3:00pm. His discharge summary does not provide her enough information to help her diagnose the problem. A flow sheet filled out during the surgery most likely contains the information Frida needs. However, in the discharge papers the surgeon summarized his setting of the leg but does not describe the administration of antibiotic post surgery ? that to him is probably an inconsequential routine Dialog and reflective encounters play a central role in each document cycle. The dialog allows a heterogeneous groups of healthcare professionals with different responsibilities and routines to mend the relationship between the background knowledge people bring to Anna?s care and the degree to which documents explicate relevant participants, times places, content, and form. Such discussions also allow doctors and nurses to question patients? history and their care. By engaging with patients? histories people with different perspectives on care can suggest changes to the configuration of participants times, places and data relevant for the patient Document cycles lacking routine reflective encounters often leave little chance for the different constituencies to clarify their position and repair the relations between documents and their users 5. Discussion More than ten years ago Star and Ruhdeler [1 112] called for a practice-based approach to organizational infrastructure and knowledge flows one that does not depict system integration as a substrate: something upon which something else runs or operates \(e.g., railway system doctors and nurses integrate documents, whether electronic or paper-based, in the course of their daily work allows us to extend such an approach to system 


work allows us to extend such an approach to system integration We find that doctors and nurses continuously transform documents making them relevant to a particular set of participants, times and places. In doing so they adjust the relationship between how much documents explicate and the background knowledge required from the readers. Two such transformations stand out as central First, doctors and nurses engage in a number of cyclical transformations, within which they oscillate between documents addressing a broader and narrower audiences \(see figure 1 and 2 they manage to straddle the demands of local work practices and the needs to coordinate with other teams in other times and places Second, as summarized in figures 1 and 2 one finds a number of transformations between the cyclical organized documents \(e.g., nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes, senior notes, etc e.g., lab work, flow sheets, orders, etc nurses use their document cycles as the clearing station for a host of document systems. The cyclical organized documents allow people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices. At the same time they draw from their cyclical documents to produce other non-cyclical documents. For instance, Marc and other doctors integrate test results from the laboratory Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 system into their brain notes and later the residence note system. Likewise, they write orders and other request information based on their brain notes The existing literature allows us to capture only parts of these cyclical transformations. Latour and Woolgar [12] and Knorr-Cetina [22] work describes the individual transformations well. The concept of communicative genres [6] offers insights to the individual documents and how they might be linked into sequentially organized genre systems. Likewise we could conceive of the documents in the present case as boundary objects bridging the relations among different communities [3 The cyclical patterns reported here, however present an opportunity to integrate these related practice-based research streams. The concept of communicative genres, for instance, supplements descriptions of document transformation in document cycles. Furthermore, the findings suggest the existence of multiple document types playing different roles in knowledge flows. Boundary objects may not stand alone in knowledge sharing across communities. Rather, they seem to interact with a host of other documents. For instance, one could argue that lab results serve as a boundary object for many groups caring for Anne. As a repository each group can draw from and contribute to the lab result system. Yet, this boundary object does not stand alone. Only when we see the lab result system in relation to the use of nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes and senior notes do we understand the intricate knowledge flow. The boundary object is but on cog in a larger document machinery Reflection and dialog play central parts in the cyclical integration of documents. Confirming findings in the boundary object literature, conflicts are prone to surface when people from different professions, sub-specialties, or local organizational cultures negotiate their often diverging approaches to patient care [3, 4, 32].  Reflective encounters allow 


patient care [3, 4, 32].  Reflective encounters allow collaborators to recalibrate the reciprocal relationship between documents and organizational members \(i.e document explicates and background knowledge the same time these interactions serve as a staging ground for questions that may broaden or narrow the collective work practices. Doctors and nurses may question whether they need more information about the patient?s medical history or consider alternative treatment plans. The meetings secure an ongoing reflection on the appropriate course of Anna?s care Much like a hermeneutic process, doctors and nurses engage with parts of patients? care ? only to return to a broader picture to interpret the integration of its parts. The movement of their understanding and writing, then, is a constant moving from the whole to its parts and back to the whole [9, 33 Finally, the document cycles offers a window into the institutional structure of the hospital and the temporal and spatial organization of work. We notice how the cycles support departmental divisions and the temporal structure of work in the institution Without these document cycles it would be impossible to maintain the high level of complexity where multiple professions and subdisciplines work together, with somebody present to knowledgably care for Anna 6. Conclusion &amp; Implications The study identifies a cyclical pattern to the knowledge flow in a heterogeneous information systems environment. Drawing on data from the healthcare industry we describe how doctors and nurses organize a host of document systems around a central cyclical pattern involving an oscillation between addressing a broader and narrower configuration of participants, times, places, and content. Numerous documents feed to and from the cyclically organized documents. The constant transformation from one document to the next allows organizational members to manage the reciprocal relationship between how much documents explicate their use and how much background knowledge readers need to bring to the document. This relationship is brittle and despite the many transformations among documents it often breaks down. The research suggests that organizational members build opportunities for dialog into the document cycles in an effort to patch any possible breaks in knowledge sharing The present research is not without limits. It relies on a single in-depth ethnographic study, thereby subjecting it to a set of well-known limitations, most notably restricted empirical generalizability. Despite the limitations, the research has implications for research and practice. First, to fully take advantage of our cyclical notion of documents and integrate the existing practice-based theories require more theoretical and empirical work. For instance, what cyclical patterns do we find beyond the healthcare industry? Second, future research will have to explore how efforts to standardize medical information and facilitate retrieval can coexist with cyclical documenting practices In regard to practice, system design may gain from supporting a host of document types and allow people to transform one document into another document characterized by different configurations of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 participants, times, places, content, and form. Across documents the content may be deceivingly alike. Yet one must keep in mind that each document manages 


an intricate reciprocal relationship between how much the document explicate and the background knowledge people bring to its use Finally, system designers may distinguish circular integration of documents and documents feeding to and from the cycles. People use their central cycles to manage many other document systems. The cycle allows people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices 7. References 1] S. L. Star and K. Ruhdeler, "Steps toward an ecology infrastructure: Design and access for large information spaces," ISR, vol. 7, pp. 111 - 134, 1996 2] L. T. Kohn, J. M. Corrigan, and M. S. Donaldson, "To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, 1999 3] P. R. Carlile, "A Pragmatic View of Knowledge and Boundaries: Boundary Objects in New Product Development," Org. Science, vol. 13, pp. 442-455, 2002 4] N. Levina and E. Vaast, "The emergence of boundary spanning competence in practice: Implications for implementation and use of information systems," MIS Quarterly, vol. 29, pp. 335-363, 2005 5] S. L. Star and J. R. Griesemer, "Institutional Ecology Translations' and Boundary Objects," Social Studies of Science, vol. 19, pp. 387-420, 1989 6] C. Bazerman, "System of genres and the enactment of social intentions," in Genre and the New Rhetoric, A Freedman and P. Medway, Eds. London: Taylor &amp; Francis 1995, pp. 79-104 7] J. Yates &amp; W. Orlikowski, "Genre Systems: Structuring Interaction through Communicative Norms," Journal of Business Communication, vol. 39, pp. 13-35, 2002 8] C. U. Ciborra and R. Andreu, "Sharing Knowledge across Boundaries," Journal of Information Technology vol. 16, pp. 73-81, 2001 9] R. Hansen and J. Rennecker, "Collective Hermeneutics in a Systems Development Process," Sprouts: Working Papers on Information Systems, vol. 6 pp http://sprouts.aisnet.org/6-6, 2006 10] R. J. Boland, R. V. Tenkasi, and D. Te'eni, "Designing Information Technology to Support Distributed Cognition Organization Science, vol. 5, pp. 456-475, 1994 11] G. DeSanctis &amp; M. Poole, "Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory," Org. Science, vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 12] B. Latour and S. Woolgar, Laboratory Life: The construction of scientific Facts. Princeton: Princenton University Press, 1986 13] J. G. March, "How decisions happen in organizations Human-Computer Interaction, vol. 6, pp. 95-117, 1991 14] R. Harper, Inside the IMF: An ethnography of documents, technology, and organizational action. San Diego: Academic Press, 1998 15] M. S. Feldman, Order without design: Information production and policy making. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1989 16] K. Weick, Sense making in organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1995 17] J. S. Brown and P. Duguid, "Borderline Issues Human-Computer Interaction, vol. 9, pp. 3-36, 1994 18] D. E. Smith, Institutional Ethnography: A sociology for people. Oxford: AltaMira Press, 2005 19] C  sterlund, "Documents in Place: Demarcating Places for Collaboration in Healthcare Settings.," CSCW vol. 17, pp. 195-225, 2008 20] C  sterlund, "Genre Combinations: A Window into Dynamic Communication Practices.," Journal of Management of Information Systems \(JMIS 81-108, 2007 21] N. M. Dixon, Common knowledge : how companies 


21] N. M. Dixon, Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know. Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22] K. Knorr Cetina, The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23] R. J. J. Boland, "An Ecology of Distributed Practice Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24] M. Agar, Speaking of Ethnography. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25] J. Van Maanen, "The Fact of Fiction in Organizational Ethnography," ASQ, vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26] M. B. Miles and A. M. Huberman, Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods. Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27] S. R. Barley, "Technology as an Occasion for Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments," ASQ, vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28] M. L. Markus, "Toward a Theory of Knowledge Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success," Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29] W. J. Orlikowski, "Knowing in practice:  Enacting a collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science, vol. 13, pp. 249?273, 2002 30] C  sterlund and P. Carlile, "Relations in Practice Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations," The Information Society, vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31] L. A. Suchman, Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication. Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 32] M. S. Ackerman and C. Halverson, "Organizational Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, &amp; Trajectories CSCW, vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33] R. J. Boland, "Information System Use as a hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions, H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





