html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">978-1-42442794-9/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE             SMC 2009 Knowledge Transfer in Science-Policy Process Case Study on Remote Sensing Technology in Disaster Management Mitsumi Miyashita Planning and Finance Department Remote Sensing Technology Center of Japan Tokyo, Japan miyashita_mitsumi@restec.or.jp Yoshiteru Nakamori School of Knowledge Science Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology Nomi, Ishikawa, Japan nakamori@jaist.ac.jp Abstract  Environmental policies often strongly depend on environmental monitoring data, yet these increasing datasets are not always used effectively in enacting and implementing public policy. Because two different types of actors which are scientists and policy makers involved, we assumed that the knowledge transferring is one of the obstacles to make the science-policy process effectively. In the view of this, this paper addresses to clarify what are the obstacles to make the process difficult and factors to make it smooth. We discussed the roles of scientific information in terms of scientists  seeds and policy makers  needs We used the process of applying Advanced Land Observing Satellite \(ALOS case study on bringing the new scientific technology into damage control policy. As a result, it reveals that the scientific information gives big efforts not only to implement the policy but also to make policies. However, whether the information would transform into policy relevant knowledge or not depends on how policy makers perceive it. This transformation process can be expressed by a two-by-two matrix to show the relation between scientists  seed and policy makers  need. If policy makers think the information provided by scientists is useful, the information successfully transferred into policy-relevant scientific knowledge If it is not, it causes the gaps: distance or direction Keywords  knowledge transfer, science-policy process remote sensing technology, disaster management I. INTRODUCTION As policy quandaries, environmental problems are complex and difficult to deal with. They are complex because their casual chain has complicated interactions between biological physical and social systems. They are difficult to deal with because their solution depends on the collaboration between scientists and policy makers. Implementing effective environmental policy requires not only the combined efforts of many disciplines to understand environmental problems, but also active interactions with stakeholders. To assist in this effort, interactive models of research are increasingly being adopted to understand complex environmental issues, their impact on human and natural systems, and the opportunities and constraints for policy making directed towards adaptation and mitigation [1]. Despite efforts to describe and characterize interactive research by many researchers, the existing literatures have to make more explicit, theoretically informed generalizations about the conditions under which interaction achieves greater or less success From agenda setting to implementation, environmental policies in areas as diverse as air quality, climate change, water quality and land use; all depend on environmental monitoring and research to set emission limits, establish safe levels of exposure, evaluate the fate of pollutants in the ecosystem, and many other decisions at the local, national and international level [2]. The data that support this process are often complex ambiguous, dispersed across multiple monitoring networks maintained by different organizations, provided one by one in many narrow technical papers, developed with competing theories, and presented with jargon that is not clearly understood by policy makers. The culture of science that generates and analyzes the data is very different from the 


generates and analyzes the data is very different from the culture of politics that uses the resulting knowledge for decision making. Environmental problems like climate change or water quality are not scientific problems or political problems alone, but interdisciplinary problems that require a unified science-policy solution. This requires collaboration between scientists and policy makers working together by creating environmental knowledge that is useful for policies Figure 1 shows the science-policy process which defines the conditions that facilitate the use of scientific data for policy 3]. It begins with converting raw data from monitoring networks into information by scientists. They also interpret this information into scientific knowledge. Then, scientific knowledge is transformed \(or translated scientific knowledge by the collaborative works with scientists and policy makers. As the knowledge is provided to policy makers, they use it as one factor among many others in their decision making. It is important to note that scientific data is only one source of information that is a strong science-based component. This science-policy process represents a path from scientific data to the policy knowledge in a form that increases the likelihood that it will be used appropriately In the view of knowledge transferring, this paper will focus on the step of the collaborative works which involved two different types of actors: scientists and policy makers. We address to find the factors to make the process difficult and smooth respectively Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics San Antonio, TX, USA - October 2009 978-1-4244-2794-9/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 4366 SMC 2009 Scientific Knowledge Policy-relevant Scientific Knowledge InformationData Policy Knowledge Collaborative Works Scientists Scientists Policy makers Conversion Interpretation Translation Transformation Interpretation Figure 1. Process from data to policy makers  knowledge [3 II. CASE STUSY: REMOTE SENSING TECHNOLOGY IN DISASTER MANAGEMENT The Advanced Land Observing Satellite \(ALOS developed to contribute to the fields of mapping, precise regional land coverage observation, disaster monitoring, and resource surveying. It was launched in January 24, 2006 by Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency \(JAXA sensors: the Panchromatic Remote-sensing Instrument for Stereo Mapping \(PRISM optical systems to measure precise land elevation; the Advanced Visible and Near Infrared Radiometer type 2 AVNIR-2 Phased Array type L-band Synthetic Aperture Radar PALSAR observation. ALOS's remote-sensing equipment enables precise land coverage observation and can collect enough data by itself for mapping on a scale of 25,000 to 1 without relying on points of reference on the ground. It is expected to play an important role in cartography by providing maps of Japan and other countries, including those in the Asia-Pacific region, which is one of ALOS's main objectives. Other objectives include regional observation for harmonization between the environment and development on Earth, domestic and overseas disaster monitoring and resource surveys. Its contributions to 


disaster monitoring and resource surveys. Its contributions to the mitigation of environmental destruction and natural disasters will make it an essential satellite for our future The main objective of ALOS was mapping, and these maps are useful in disaster management. Space programs have been drastically shifting recently from pure research and development to the real utilization of space. However JAXA is a space agency for R&amp;D, which means that they are not experts in disaster management. So the Cabinet Office of the Government of Japan, and the Ministry of Education, Culture Sports, Science and Technology established a committee to look at the potential of using satellites in disaster management The committee brought together governmental bodies institutions and experts to exchange opinions and explain their needs. It was discussed how to present satellite images in a way that would facilitate their work. It was the first challenge for JAXA to hear directly from specialists in this field. There were six meetings in total, from February to August 2006 [4]. And now, JAXA has working groups with members from the related ministries and institutions conducting demonstration tests in the different areas that were suggested in the committee. The first challenging area is the production of topographic satellite maps and their implementation in disaster management. For example JAXA are trying to use ALOS's images to create hazard maps which illustrate the risks of damage from hypothetical disasters By monitoring danger zones in advance, the government hope to be able to predict the best escape routes when a natural disaster strikes. Also, it's possible to make topographic satellite maps combining ALOS's images with digital maps published by the Geographical Survey Institute. To promote the use of these maps in early-response activities such as rescue crew dispatch just after disaster hits, JAXA asked the National Police Agency, the Fire and Disaster Management Agency, and the Ministry of Defense about their needs. In response, JAXA has made a 1/25,000-scale sample of a topographic satellite map of southern Tokyo. The map indicates emergency transportation routes in different colors, and notes key landmarks such as the locations of heliports. In addition comparing pre- and post-disaster satellite images can help to find out such things as collapsed buildings or fires, and to assess damage much more easily. The sensor on ALOS is capable of 3D imaging. JAXA generate 3D images of the entire nation, which would be available to all ministries working on disaster management. JAXA are also conducting demonstration tests to detect such natural phenomena as volcanic eruptions movements of the Earth's crust, maritime and coastal disasters landslides, and floods, and to assess the damage they cause. It is also carried out joint demonstration to predict volcanic eruptions with many research institutions, including the Japan Meteorological Agency, the Geographical Survey Institute, and the National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Prevention - all members of the Committee for the Prediction of Volcanic Eruptions In Japan, ALOS observed the area affected by the Noto Peninsula earthquake in March 2007, and confirmed upheaval in the region. ALOS is also providing the Japan Coast Guard with information about sea ice movement, and contributing to analysis of diastrophism in the vicinity of the island of Iwo Jima, which relates to the prediction of volcanic activity Internationally, ALOS has conducted emergency observations for large-scale disasters, especially in Asia. These have included the landslide in Leyte, Philippines, in February 2006 the eruption of Mount Merapi in Java, Indonesia; an oil spill in the east of the Indian Ocean; flooding in Jakarta, Indonesia; an earthquake in the Solomon Islands; and sea ice in the northwest of Canada [5 4367 SMC 2009 Scientific Knowledge Policy-relevant scientific knowledgeInformation \(scientists  seeds Based on policy maker  s needs Perceive it useful Figure 2. Basic concept model of knowledge transferring ALOS  s images also contribute to international cooperation 


ALOS  s images also contribute to international cooperation in disaster management through its memberships in the International Charter  Space and Major Disasters  and the Sentinel Asia [6]. The International Charter primarily consists of space agencies around the world, with the aim of providing Earth observation satellite data when large-scale disasters strike Sentinel Asia aims to share information on the Internet for disaster management in the Asia-Pacific region. Forest fires and floods are serious problems in Asian countries III. MECHANISM OF KNOWLEDGE TRANSFERRING Based on the case study, it is necessary to have collaboration with end users and exchange ideas with them as to the best satellite applications to meet their needs. Figure 2 shows the basic concept model of knowledge transferring from scientific knowledge to policy-relevant scientific knowledge Scientific knowledge changes the form to information based on policy makers' needs. This seeded information is transformed into policy-relevant scientific knowledge when policy makers perceive it useful. We use the terms "seed" and "need" to discuss the relationship between scientific results as scientific knowledge and their use as policy-relevant scientific knowledge for several reasons. First, the analogy is simple Decisions about science \(i.e., science policy decisions determine the composition and size of research portfolios that seed" scientific results. People in various institutional and social settings who look to scientific information as an input to their decisions constitute a "need" function for scientific results Of course, the need function can be complicated by many factors, e.g., sometimes a policy maker may not be aware of the existence of useful information or may misuse, or be prevented from using, potentially useful information. Our key point is that there is reasonable conceptual clarity in distinguishing between processes concerned with the seeds of science, and those concerned with its use. In a second reason for characterizing scientific knowledge in terms of seeds and needs, science seeds and needs are closely interrelated. Science policy decisions are made with some consideration or promise of societal requests and priorities [7]. Thus there is a feedback between the needs of science and the characteristics of seeds IV. RELATIONS BETWEEN SEEDS AND NEEDS We believe that policy makers can make decisions with better outcomes if they understand how seeded information relates to their needs. So we propose the matrix to show the relations between science seeds and policy makers' needs \(see Fig.3 representing science seeds and the other representing policy makers' needs. The horizontal-axis of the grid, or the needs side poses the question, "Are policy makers satisfied with information?" The vertical-axis asks, "Does the information match with the policy makers' needs The matrix's top-left quadrant represent the case in which the science seeds match with policy makers' needs, that is policy makers have access to the information they need from the science side. In this case, the information is successfully transformed to policy-relevant scientific knowledge which can be used for making decisions. On the bottom-left, despite the case in which information does not match with policy makers need, the information is transformed to knowledge. The information is not directly related to policy makers' need however it helps policy makers to understand scientists perspectives and their information. Therefore, the information can be used to support policy making as policy makers knowledge. In those two left-sided cases, the information changes the form to policy makers' knowledge. On the other hand, the right-sided cases emerge the gap between scientists and policy makers. The top-right case indicates that policy makers are not satisfied with the information, even as it matches with policy makers' needs. It means that the information is not enough to make policy makers understood This situation is called "distance-gap" explained in [3]. It is emerged when there is an inability of some policy makers to 


emerged when there is an inability of some policy makers to make use of highly technical advice, lack of public confidence in scientific information, the difficulty of obtaining highquality science at short notice and a lack of universal support for scientific input into policy making due to both contradictory science and a lack of certainty surrounding the available results The bottom-right case, which scientists' seeds do not match with policy makers' needs, emerges the "direction-gap" also defined in [3 As a concrete example, we adapted the case of applying remote sensing technology in disaster management into a twoby-two matrix \(see Fig.4 For damage detection and disaster real-time monitoring, a very important aspect of remote sensing is the production of data so that operations people can quickly and directly use it An operational space-borne system for risk assessment, should guarantee the following aspects [8]: \(1 the maximum period between two consecutive acquisitions on a given site product generation in the case of an emergency, \(2 resolution and the coverage of images should be appropriate for the required application 4368 SMC 2009 Scientists Gap Scientific Knowledge Policy Knowledge Policy makers Direction-gapKnowledge for supporting policy making No Distance-gapKnowledge for decision making Yes Scientists  seed  Does the information matches with the policy makers  needs  NoYes Policy makers  need  Are policy makers satisfied with the information  Scientists Gap Scientific Knowledge Policy Knowledge Policy makersScientists Policy makers Scientific Knowledge Policy Knowledge Scientists Scientific Knowledge Policy Knowledge Policy makers Understandable area Understandable area Figure 3. Two-two matrix showing the relation between scientists  seeds and policy makers   needs Factors in direction-gap  Unclear request from policy makers  Unfocused scientific information Information to bridge the distance-gap  Possible resolution and re-visit time by sensor types 


time by sensor types No Factors in distance-gap  Presenting with jargon  Different behavior and attributes between scientists and policy makers  Different appreciation of scientific uncertainty Information to bridging the direction-gap  Relative advantage: remote sensing can monitor a wide area at once and acquire up-to-date information  Compatibility: fits easily into existing practice  Complexity: some aspects of remote sensing are technologically difficult  Trialability: there are some projects already started and the demonstration tests are conducted  Observability: easy to see Yes Scientists  seed  Does the information matches with the policy makers  needs  NoYes Policy makers  need  Are policy makers satisfied with the information  Figure 4. Effective information for knowledge transferring and factors in gaps in the case of  applying remote sensing techology into disaster management 4369 SMC 2009 V. INFORMATION TO BRIDGE THE DISTANCE-GAP One of the biggest aspects to make a gap is scientific uncertainty. As the uncertain information varies by users, the responsibility to provide this information also lies on different actors. The concept of uncertainty in providing information on environmental issues is closely linked to the concept of data and model quality. The appreciation of data quality on its turn is dependent on the final application and use of the data. The independent use is relevant for any analysis of this concept with respect to environmental data and models Common grounds of data between scientists and policy makers provide a structure to request and receive relevant timely data from a trusted source. It provides the policy maker sufficient information to make comparisons and small changes using the scientists as a means to process large amounts of data The common grounds of data improve the scientific capability to study the environment and human impact Figure 5 shows the "distance-gap" as the difference in levels of confidence for a given scientific finding expressed by the scientists and policy makers. This relationship is portrayed as linear for the scientific community where the confidence level tracks the rate of confirmation. In contrast, the degree and rate at which social confidence and consensus develops for a given scientific finding may lag behind that of the scientists due to a complex of social factors. In reality, the shape of this function will vary with individual scientific findings. The level of confidence by the scientists increases with the level of scientific confirmation. As evidence accumulates to support the underlying hypotheses, confidence in its representations increases. In time, a model achieves greater standing as inferences concerning its representations are disseminated and de-bated in scientific literature and other forums. At some threshold of accord with the scientists, consensus emerges However, the emergence of the so-called scientific consensus does not necessarily guarantee the level of certainty demanded by most policy makers [9]. In the case of large-scale simulation 


by most policy makers [9]. In the case of large-scale simulation models, constants and parameters contain assumptions and uncertainties that propagate in uncertain ways to produce uncertain output. Such uncertainty is usual for scientists, but it may not for policy makers Figure 5. Example of Distance- gap defined as the difference in levels of confidence for a given scientific finding expressed by the scientists and policy makers \(adapted from [7 Although scientists are familiar with uncertainty and complexity, policy makers often seek certainty and deterministic results. There are two general approaches for bridging this distance-gap. These are: \(1 scientific confirmation; \(2 policy makers understand risk and uncertainty as scientists do The information in the second approach will be categorized in bottom-left case shown in Fig.3 In the case shown in Fig. 5, the information to bridge the gap is possible resolution and re-visit-time by sensor types VI. INFORMATION TO BRIDGE THE DIRECTION-GAP To bridge direction-gap, we clarify what policy makers need from scientists. We consider the case to transfer new technology in the policy The scientific and social issues represent a set of conflicting risks and uncertainties that have not been addressed by conventional analytical approaches. Managers involved in these issues require new approaches that can integrate existing models of planning, analysis, decision making. This need arises at a time when there is a growth of new technologies to support the practices of risk management, risk assessment, and decision analysis. Yet given the availability and appropriateness of these technologies, there are many barriers to their adoption within risk management organizations. Decisions about adopting unfamiliar technologies are themselves complex risk management decisions that warrant a high level of procedural rationality, particularly in designing and evaluating trial applications. Successful applications are developed through a process of technology and knowledge transfer. Successful technology transfer often requires two complementary actions 10]: \(1 and \(2 technology and its application. Both aspects of technology transfer are necessary Rogers [11] described fundamental barriers to the diffusion of innovations" across a diverse set of governments societies, and organizations. He listed five perceived attributes of innovations that dictate how they are received x Relative advantage: How much better is the innovation than that which it supersedes x Compatibility: How consistent is the innovation with the existing values, past experiences, and needs of potential adopters x Complexity: How difficult is the innovation to understand and use x Trialability: How easily can the innovation be experimented with on a limited basis x Observability: How visible are the advantage of the innovation to potential users elsewhere in the organization We believe that these attributes can be the formats to cover policy makers' needs, and the information is categorized in the top-left case shown in Fig. 3 As a concrete example, we simply answer the above five attributes in the field of remote sensing technology based on [3 see Fig.5 4370 SMC 2009 Relative advantage is the extent to which the innovation is perceived to be better than the current practice. The perceived positives must outweigh the negatives. Policy makers must be convinced that remote sensing can monitor a wide area at once and acquire up-to-date information, and these in turn can lead to better, more informed decision making. These put the 


to better, more informed decision making. These put the responsibility on developing remote sensing applications to educate policy makers about what remote sensing has to offer so that they will consider its application as an additional source of information to meet existing requirements. Remote sensing should be viewed as a supplement to or enhancement of existing information, not as a replacement. Even without improvements in decision making, remote sensing may be a more cost effective approach to assessment in some instances For small-scale projects, remote sensing may be too costly at this time, but for large-scale projects, remote sensing techniques can offer significant cost savings compared to conventional on-site measurements Compatibility is the degree to which the innovation is perceived to be consistent with current values, past experiences and priority of needs. Remote sensing should be perceived as very compatible with existing practices. Remote sensing is just another source of geospatial information used for environmental assessment upon which informed decisions are made Complexity is the degree to which the innovation is perceived to be difficult to understand or use. As is the case with any technical disciplines, there are associated vocabularies that are unfamiliar to the policy makers. Those in the remote sensing field need to be conscientious about using terminology that is unfamiliar to policy makers from other backgrounds so as not to give the false impression that remote sensing has difficulties for technical challenge. It should be agreed that some aspects of remote sensing are technologically difficult; a distinction should be made between the development of remote sensing application products and the interpretation of these products for policy purposes. Developing extraction techniques and application products is technologically demanding requiring a trained image analyst, but less skill and training are required to interpret these products in the context of policy Trialability is the extent to which an organization can try out one idea on a limited basis with the option of returning to previous practices. Because remote sensing requires a certain level of expertise and specialized computer software trialability has been started in some organizations [8]. In this case study, the teams consist of scientists and policy makers to conduct demonstration projects, and it allows teams an opportunity to learn more about remote sensing and gain greater familiarity with how it may impact traditional workflows Observability is the extent to which the results of an innovation are visible to others. An innovation with highly visible, beneficial results is more rapidly diffused. There are many web sites to distribute information and educational materials and communicate results of various projects \(ex 13 organizational activities at professional workshops and conferences and some of this information is presented in professional journals VII. CONCLUSION The scientific information gives big efforts to the process of policy making. However, it is not smooth to implement the scientific knowledge into policy. In this paper, we focused on clarifying the factors to make the knowledge transfer difficult and smooth between scientists and policy makers in the science-policy process. We discussed the roles of scientific information in terms of scientists' seeds and policy makers needs based on the process of applying ALOS to disaster management. When scientists change the form of scientific knowledge to information, this information will be the "seed and should be made useful for policy makers. However whether the information would transform into policy relevant knowledge or not depends on how policy makers perceive it This transformation process can be expressed by a two-by-two matrix to show the relation between scientists' seed and policy makers' need. If policy makers think the information provided by scientists is useful \(have benefit 


by scientists is useful \(have benefit successfully transferred into policy relevant scientific knowledge. If it is not, it reveals the gap with causes: distance or direction REFERENCES 1] M. C. Lemos, B. J. Morehouse  The co-production of science and policy in integrated climate assessments  Global Environmental Change vol. 15, pp.57-68, 2005 2] J. A. Engel-Cox, R. M. Hoff  Science-policy data compact: use of environmental monitoring data for air quality policy  Environmental Science &amp; Policy, vol. 8 \(2 3] M. Miyashita, Y. Nakamori  Knowledge Management in SciencePolicy Process  Proc. of the 7th International Symposium on Knowledge and Systems Sciences, pp. 265-270, 2006 4] MEXT  Meeting Report of Satelite Utilization for Disaster Management  unpublished 5] JAXA  Report of ALOS Achievement  unpublished 6] http://dmss.tksc.jaxa.jp/sentinel 7] D. Dalrymple  Setting the agenda for science and technology in the public sector: the case of international agricultural research  Sci. Public Policy, vol. 33 \(4  290, 2006 8] F. Sarti, J. Inglada, R. Landry and T. Pultz  Risk management using Remote Sensing data: moving from scientific to operational applications  The tenth of Brazilian Simposium of Remote Sensing 2001 9] M. Pulles and D. Heslinga  On the variability of Air Pollutant Emissions from Gas Fired Industrial Combustion Plants  TNO/MEP Netherlands, 2003 10] M. Miyashita, M. Makowski, and Y. Nakamori  Applicability of Satellite-Derived Data to Oil Spill Assessment  The 5th International Symposium on Knowledge and Systems Sciences, \(KSS2004 262, 2004 11] E. Rogers, Diffusion of Innovations Free Press, New York, 2003 12] R. Perry, S. Britsch and J. Zainal, Development Plan Marine &amp; Coastal Environmental Database for Bahrain, Environmental Research and Wildlife Development Agency,  2001 13] http://oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov/SeaWiFS 4371 pre></body></html 


 10    The above contour shows static pressure distribution across the model. It can be seen that th ere is a pressure rise near the nose when the flow first encounters the body  There is a gradual rise in pressure as shown by yellow region. This is due to the reas on that pressure increases after the bow shock about compression corners     The contour above gives the static temperature. A gradual rise in temperature is observed downstream of shock wave This is due to the supersonic flow around the compression around the corners. The static temperature distribution may help in selecting the materials required in certain areas to withstand the conditions at cruising  Mach number variation over the aircraft profile is plotted in the following page. A drop in the Mach number is noticed after the shock formation. This is due to the formation of oblique  shock wave at the nose. The following contour gives the turbulence intensity over the profile 
 


 11   Maximum turbulence is encountered at the wing tips. This could be attributed to the fact that vortex is generated near the trailing edges. This could be minimized by providing alterations to the design of the wing tips. The remaining region around the boundaries seems to be fairly stable and validates this to be a good design The sectional view of Model B was also analyzed. The resulting contours are presented here in the following page    
 


 12  Figure 15 \226 Static Pressure Contour side view of Model A    Figure 16 \226 Static Temperature Contour   Figure 17 \226 Velocity Magnitude Contour   Figure 18 \226 Turbulent Energy Contour  Figure 19 \226 Static Pressure Contour side view of Model B   Figure 20  226  Static Temperature Contour  Figure  21  226  Mach Number Contour  Figure  22  226 Strain Rate Contour 
 


 13 Analysis of Model A The analysis of Model A gave varying results owing to the variation in the profiles of the plan view and the sectional side view. The sectional side view is diamond type unlike that of Model B which is convex in shape. Both are however, ideal supersonic airfoils The sectional side view of Model A shows a rise in pressure behind the shock wave. This is because of the oblique shock wave formation around the compression corners. A drop in pressure is noticed at the expansion corner due to the formation of expansion fan at the convex corners The top view of Model A, when analyzed in Fluent gave the following contours. Formation of a high pressure region ahead of the wing profile sh ows the formation of a bow wave. This may induce very high wave drag and may not be a good optimized model    
 


 14 Analyses of Model C Analyses of Model C were done at Mach 1 to avoid divergence in the solution. The following results were obtained. The analyzed cont our clearly shows a high pressure region ahead of the nose This is the detached shock wave that is formed as seen in the shadowgraph. A region of high pressure exists after the detached shock      
 


 15      7  C ONCLUSION  The results from experimental theoretical and software analysis validate the fabricated models to work well over the supersonic regimes. Models A and B have reduced shock strength. This advantage could be explored in the design of a transcontinental supersonic passenger airliner. The models prove to be aerodynamically efficient and have lesser wave drag However, there were a few shortcomings in this approach The fabrication of such an ai rliner at a bigger scale could 
 


 16 prove to be a challenging task. Installation of engines would have to be looked into from a different aspect This work could be extended to study various other complicated supersonic aircraft profiles; the distribution of pressure, shock pattern and shock strength can be studied Unless efforts are continued on this regard, the viability of an efficient supersonic airc raft is likely to languish  R EFERENCES  1  United States Patent - 4828204 , Supersonic  Airplane by Gottfried O. Friebel, Bellevue, Wash  2 United States Patent \226 5518204, High Efficiency Supersonic Aircraft \226 Richard.R.Tracy  3  Jones, R., 1991. \223The Flying Wing Supersonic Transport.\224 Aeronautical Journal March    A b o o k o n Gas Dy nam i c by  R a t h i n a k ri s hna n    A st udy of Detache d S h oc k wave in 2-D  by Morton      Alperin, CALTECH, 1950 6 In trodu ction to fligh t  b y Ja m e s And e rson   Ai rcra ft De si gn  by  J o hn P F i e l d i ng  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The author wishes to express his hearty appreciation to all those people who have been instrumental in successful completion of this work. The author wishes to thank the principal, Dr. J. Shanmugam and management of Velammal Engineering College for their continual support. In particular, the author wishes to mention Mr Vickneshkumar, who has been a source of constant support throughout the project and Mr. Murugan for his kind cooperation and help during the fabrication of the models The author is indebted to Mr. Palani, IIT Madras for his invaluable guidance on FLUENT software and Dr Muruganandam, IIT Madras for his kind permission to conduct the tests in the wind tunnel facility at IIT Last but not the least; the author extends his warm thanks to his father, Mr. Arun Banerjee and his family who have been a great moral support throughout the course of this work       BIOGRAPHY Arijeet Banerjee is a Bachelor of Engineering \(Mechanical Engin eering\ student at Velammal Engineering College, Anna University, Chennai  India. He has completed his senior secondary schooling under the Central Board of Secondary Education. A keen aerospace enthusiast has taken part and won various competitions at both state and national levels. Visit the author at www.arijeetbanerjee.synthasite.com  
 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





