Government Enterprise Architecture Grid Adaptation in Finland   Katariina Valtonen University of Jyväskyl katariina.valtonen@jyu.fi  Ville Seppänen University of Jyväskyl ville.seppanen@titu.jyu.fi  Mauri Leppänen University of Jyväskyl mauri@cs.jyu.fi    Abstract  In government, support for strategic political steering, administrative and cross-sectoral development and integration of processes and systems can be sought 
out of enterprise architecture \(EA\lanning. To facilitate this, a proper EA method covering essential government levels is needed. A constructive case study has been carried out to create an adaptation model of Finnish government EA \(GEA\rid. The study builds on general principles of method adaptation and observations about GEA method engineering and its pilot adaptations in Finnish State Administration. The model presents systematic guidelines for situational GEA grid adaptation and reuse in Finnish State administration The model supports GEA grid adoption as a strategic tool for planning and management of organizational change. It facilitates prioritization of government 
goals, communication and commitment among government actors, and implementation of government interoperability   1. Introduction  Current trends of public administration \(PA\ reforms are directed towards electronic services  eServices  and managerial administrative models, such as New Public Management \(NPM o r plan n i ng a n d  implementing them, enterprise architecture tools are commonly applied [7   Enterprise Architecture EA\ is a central notion used to align strategies, processes, in 
formation, systems and technologies of an enterprise   T o s t ru ctu r e, org an ize an d g u i de E A plann i ng a  number of  EA frameworks and methods have been suggested \(e.g a re vie w in [15 n  EA grid  signifies here an EA framework in the matrix form PA as the context of EA planning sets specific requirements and constraints on a manner in which an EA method is applied [1  F o r g o v e rnm en t u s e, E A  methods are defined locally or adapted from wellknown frameworks [6  7   A n E A gr i d i s i n a ke y p o s i  
tion in this adaptation, since it structures the EA descriptions and guides the EA planning process In Finland, as part of the Interoperability Development Programme \(IDP\method for government EA GEA\nning w a s e n gi n eered b y adapting  s o m e  existing EA frameworks   o r PA T h e m e thod is composed of a large conceptual EA grid, a general-level process model, and normative instructions to apply the grid and description models within it. The GEA method is generic, i.e., it has to be adapted before applying in each development environment. We made observations in the GEA method engineering project 
and two pilot adaptation projects in Finnish PA. Based on findings from these projects and a review of relevant literature, we designed an adaptation model of the GEA grid deployment in Finnish government organisations The aim of the paper is to present \(a\cription of EA method adaptation carried out in Finland, \(b analysis of principles underlying the EA grid adaptation, as well as \(c\e GEA grid adaptation model Geagam\nd benefits of using the model The remainder of the paper is structured into eight sections. In Section 2, we define basic concepts related 
to method adaptation and EA frameworks. In Section 3, we introduce the Finnish State administration as the context of applying the GEA method. In Section 4, we describe the GEA method engineering project and findings from its adaptation in two pilot organizations. Section 5 outlines our research methodology. In Section 6 we bring out the principles underlying the GEA grid adaptation and present the GEA grid adaptation model Geagam\ection 7 discusses the benefits of the GEA grid adaptation. The paper ends with a summary and conclusions  2. Previous research 
 No method as such is suitable, but it needs to be adapted for situational needs Method adaptation  means the customization or tailoring of a method in a way which makes it more suitable for a domain, an organization, or a project [2 T h ere a r e tw o m a i n  approaches to method adaptation. In the first approach an adapted method is engineered by collecting compoProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


nents from known methods and by integrating them into a customized array of models and techniques \(e.g  th e s econ d approach a s i n g l e  m e th od, called a  base method, is selected and then customized, for instance, by dropping out some of its components, and by enhancing it with new components [21   B o t h o f  these approaches seem to be used in EA method adaptation for PA \(s d [7  An EA method consists of a framework, a modeling process, techniques, models and roles \(cf Here, we are particularly interested in the EA frameworks Many of the ideas of modern EA owe to the pioneering work of John Zachman w h os e E A  framework is in the form of a two-dimensional grid Zachman s framework has got a number of successors and has affected the development of government EA methods t   Through an EA framework, the complex structure of an enterprise can be modeled from different aspects  ccordin g to S h a h a n d K o u rdi [36], th e f r a m e w or k helps to identify the scope of the architecture and structure its elements in architectural layers and dimensions The framework ensures the consistency of the produced descriptions o g u i des E A pla n n i ng an d  development process \(e.g., EAG  p e w a k   A s u itable s p eci f i catio n of a f r a m e w or k is t h u s  of uttermost importan s e t h e ter m E A g r id  to refer to an EA framework which is in the matrix form. In the EA literature, the dimensions \(or columns of EA grids are more or less fixed, often corresponding to the viewpoints of business architecture \(BA\, information architecture \(IA\systems architecture \(SA\ and technology architecture \(TA\ \(e.g  T h e la y e rs  or levels\owever, are still subject to debate Layered EA frameworks help in representing various aspects in different models and levels of abstraction e d on t h eir a n al ys is o f  w o rk on en terpris e  architectures, Braun and Wint u e th at f o u r  design layers have to be differentiated. These include strategy, organizational, application, and software component layers. However, they also note that all the layers need not be found in all approaches, but the layers should be in accordance with the purpose. Malan and Bredemey c u s s  th e arch itect u r al lev el s of scope \(those of enterprise, domain, application, and component\hat help in focusing the architectural decision-making. Agreeing with Bass, Clements and Kazma e y co n c lu de t h at arch itect u r al decis ions  should be deferred to the lower levels in the architectural hierarchy, if it is possible to develop and implement a requirement there [24  O u r  f o c u s in th e s t u d y  has been on adapting of architectural levels for different government purposes Although there is no agreement, which layers should constitute the essence of EA, it is common to apply an approach where strategic positioning is followed by organizational processes and structures, and finally by information system For ex a m ple, E A  Management Grid \(EAG, [16  su gge sts t h e d e sc r i p tio n  levels of \(1\ enterprise, \(2\ its domains and \(3\ubsequent systems, in order to support the implementation of strategic goals. An EA planning process based on the EAG framework l o w s  f r o m th e s t rategic  enterprise level towards concrete domain and systems levels. At each level, EA descriptions and consequent decisions sharpen towards more focused, concrete and detailed design issues The EA frameworks and methods are too generic to be applied as such. According to the survey of national EA work 9  of th e gov ernm en t s h a v e def i n e d their EA frameworks locally, mostly based on some of the generic ones. For example, USA s FEA framework FEAF a s been i n s p ired b y  Z a c h m a n s and Spewak s on u rt h e r, f o r F E A F  con c epts to be applied using a variety of architectural frameworks and methodologies in federal government are introduced in  Ho w e v e r, as  f a r as  w e  k n o w  adaptation  m odel s  inside the public infrastructure of a country have not been published largely. Therefore, we propose an example of an EA framework adaption model  3. Finnish State administration  We introduce shortly the Finnish State administration, in order to clarify the context of EA method adaptation. State administration includes about 12 ministries, with ca. a hundred bureaus and agencies in State central administration o s t of th e m i n i s t ries h a v e  regional and local offices too operating solely on a regional or local basis \(e.g., local register offices In Finland, there have been New Public Management related reforms since 1987 [4 N P M, t h e  political steering is strategic by nature, which means that ministers are subjects and the administration is the object of steering t r alization f r ee s  m a n a g e rs  to manage, wherefore ministers are free to concentrate on broad, strategic decisions guiding the operational execution  Tiili [40 h a s an a l y zed t h e strategy practices o f  Finnish State administration between 1995-2006. Government Program \(G con s i s t s o f G o v e r n m e nt  vision, and collections of strategic goals of administrative branches i n ce 1995, g o v e rnm e n t strategy specifications have explicated the projects needed to implement GP T h ereaf t er, prog ram  m a n a g e m e n t  has been carried on since 2003, to enhance the means for steering and monitoring the implementation of the GP, especially in matters requiring cross-sectoral cooperation e rnm e n t s t rate gy s p eci f ications Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


have thereafter contained outlined policy programs and their consequent legislative plans P o licy programs comprise projects with their measures and responsibilities [13   Although these strategic practices have brought rigor to political decisions, there have been few signs of strategic political steering in Finnish Government since 1995 [4 t rategy docum e n ts are ch aracterized as collections of strategic agendas of each ministry, while there has neither been the will, nor the courage among Government members to prioritize the projects, and to make selections P r o j ects in s t rategy s p eci f i catio n s  lack equal interest politically: GP has either had small issues that are too concrete, or goals that are too general to be strateg w a s als o con s idered on l y a s  a legitimization of what the ministries were already doing [40  H o w e ve r  ne w  gui d e l i ne s i n si st r e l e va n t  information In the process of promoting and monitoring the GP, the Government shall only be provided with information necessary to make decisions ensuring the materialization of the GP   To support the strategic political steering, the GEA grid adaptation model \(Geagam ms to promote EA descriptions in such a way that the information and strategic goals presented for ministers shall be relevant and produced in a systematic way. This enhances the prioritization and selection of the most important strategic goals, and outlining of the vision of entire government operation instead of just justifying the current state of administration  4. CASE: EA method adaptation for PA  In autumn 2006, Interoperability Development Program \(IDP\ was launched in the Ministry of Finance in Finland to implement a government policy decision on the development of IT manageme ch alleng ing tasks were, par excellence, to engineer a government EA \(GEA\method and a GEA governance model. Here, we focus on the GEA method engineering described also in 17  and its pilot adaptations in two State central agencies  4.1. GEA method engineering project  The GEA method engineering project \(Geamep group consisted of representatives of Finnish State administration \(different ministries and their agencies municipality, a university, and the liable consultancy all bringing their expertise on different fields to the project. The work in the project comprised five tasks 1\e selection of a suitable EA method or EA methods, \(2\e adaptation of the EA methods for Finnish PA, \(3\aking a user manual for the resulting GEA method, \(4\ying the GEA method to a small-scale case and thus producing an exemplar document of the method use, and \(5\ning and describing a high level target architecture. The project group worked in 15 workshops from late autumn 2006 until April 2007 Out of current EA methods, TOGAF E A F   d EAG [16 w e re f o un d to bes t  m e et t h e re quirements set for the new method \(cf h e GE A method was engineered by integrating components of these. The first version was published in June 2007  T h e m e t h od is co m pos e d of a con c eptu al f r a m ework \(GEA grid\a process model with stepwise, normative instructions, and an array of description models The GEA grid is structured by three description levels and four architectural dimensions \(Table 1\ The description levels are: PA, domains \(e.g., a branch of administration\ and sub-domains \(e.g., a government agency\e description of the target state EA, the domain level of the GEA grid was denoted as a cluster 26], i.e., a  network of organizations, organized around a common goal. Sub-domains in that case were, respectively, denoted as subareas of the development goal of the clus T h e E A  v i e w poin t s corres pon d to four common sub-architectures: BA, IA, SA and TA cf  T h e s u barch i t ectu res des c ribe, f o r instance, organization, services and processes of BA, and strategic data warehouses, information assets and vocabularies of IA. IS portfolios are typical descriptions of SA, whereas technology policies, standards and reference models are typical ones of TA   Generic GEA grid in Finland BA IA SA TA PA level     Domain level     Sub-domain level     Table 1: Overview of the GEA grid  The GEA method is to be applied situationally This implies, for instance, that a suitable approach to the situation at hand is selected. If the process-driven approach is selected, the first steps are taken to develop BA and IA focusing on services, processes and information. In the system-driven approach, the EA development may start with describing current systems and how they might be harmonized or integrated The GEA process m is co m pos ed of  th re e  phases. In the first phase, the scope of the EA work is to be defined, descriptions of the current state EA collected, needs for the change explored, the vision of the target state outlined, and the development project established. The second phase is to produce primary designs of selected viewpoints and levels concerning the target state EA. Stakeholders are then to be identified Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


suitable description models selected, issues affecting the EA at hand analyzed, the target state EA modeled the target state plans reconsidered, and the defect analysis carried out. The last phase is to make a transition plan of the implementation projects, to assess and prioritize them, and to distribute the outcomes to the stakeholders   4.2. GEA grid adaptation in two agencies  The Finnish GEA method has been used in pilot projects in two State administration agencies in 2007   R o ad A d m i n i stration \(R A   un der th e Mi n i s t r y  of Transport, plans, maintains, and develops highway networks in cooperation with its regional State offices and authorities of other means of transport. State Treasury \(ST\, under the Ministry of Finance, produces administrative support services for the entire government. In the projects, the agencies applied the newly established GEA method and the GEA governance model \(both produced in IDP\ the following, we shortly describe the GEA grid adaptation in the agencies, and analyze emerged adaptation bottlenecks RA has been developing EA for many years, and it has been considered as one of the forerunners in public administration EA work in Finland. Until the pilot project, the work had been conducted without a common method. This had led to a situation where EA products were inconsistent and, in some cases, incompatible among the divisions. The work had also been characteristically driven by IT department with only slight engagement of business managers. Some of the main goals of the project in RA were to collect the dispersed efforts together, to increase the involvement of the business representatives, and to reduce the number of overlapping information systems The GEA grid adaptation in RA \(Table 2\ features the original architectural viewpoints of the GEA grid The description levels \(enterprise, domain and systems levels\pond, for exam 16 an d [3  The topmost level describes the organization as a whole from strategic, business-driven, and abstracted point of view. The domain level stands for organizational divisions or other operational units of RA. The systems level features the lowest level of abstraction describing, for example, design patterns and reference architectures of systems. The architectural decisions and principles, demarcated in Ministry of Transport and Communication and Government, were given as boundary values of the RA grid In ST, the main goal of the project was to establish and design a common architecture for eServices delivery. A sketch of the current state EA was to be produced as grounds for the requirements specification of the eServices platform. In addition, the GEA grid was to be adapted for further ST use  GEA grid in RA BA IA SA TA Road Administration     Domains     Systems of a domain     Table 2: Overview of the GEA grid in RA  The GEA grid adaptation process in ST was quite straightforward, due to the fact that the adaptation was not the main goal of the project. The description levels were adopted according to the original GEA grid \(see Table 3\The domain level was renamed according to the corresponding ministry, and the sub-domain as ST In our opinion, this way of adaptation lacks the support of EA process as described in h e res u l t ed g r id  does not fully facilitate the decomposing of strategic plans as subsequent domain and systems implementation. In their post-project feedback, ST suggested a grid which resembled the grid adapted in RA, though  GEA grid in ST BA IA SA TA State administration     Ministry of Finance     State Treasury     Table 3: Overview of the GEA grid in ST  As seen, the pilot adaptations produced two different outcomes of the GEA grid \(cf. Tables 2 and 3 This is partly due to the fact that ST and RA had different liable consultancies in their projects. One consultancy was the same who was involved in the development of the GEA method, but for another the GEA method was new. The GEA method documentation neither indicated nor instructed the adaptation of the GEA grid. There was no direct communication between the two pilot projects either. Unawareness of expected adaptation practices could be sensed in the project with a consultancy with no previous experience of the newly established GEA method. Thus, the consultancy had to ponder the adoption of the method much more, in order to mentally fix it with their EA concepts. They encountered questions of choosing proper description models and relevant abstraction levels thereof. They arrived at exploiting also descriptions of their own, in addition to the GEA method descriptions. RA and ST grids yielded thus diversified description models compared to each others At RA, the chosen description levels support the decomposition EA planning into development domains. The description levels of EA e n into use. ST took the given GEA grid more or less for granted, partly since the emphasis of the project was on Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


the eServices platform. An inconsistency with respect to the adaptation of the desc ription levels is remarkable, even more since both of the agencies are in a comparable position in State central administration  5. Research Methodology  Our research has been made as a constructive case study o llo w i n g t h e des i g n  s c ie n ce approach 14  The goal was to create a model of the Finnish GEA grid adaptation, based on practical work of GEA method engineering and adaptation as well as current literature on method adaptation, EA, and government reforms. Finnish state administration as a complex adaptive system \(GEA as CAS, cf prov ided a ch allenging environment with approximately 130 organizational actors, and a deep hierarchy of administrative levels The first author was acting as a participatory observer at the project workshops of the GEA method engineering. Discussions were written down as field notes, tape recorded at most times, and transcribed and summarized. The second author was observing the pilot adaptations of GEA method in RA and ST. These authors attended several events of IDP. The documents of IDP were also available during the study in a shared workspace of Ministry of Finance During 2007, discussions with IDP managers and participants confirmed us of the need of the GEA method adaptation guidelines, thus triggering the work to create the GEA grid adaptation model \(Geagam The work was commented at meetings of the steering group of the Finnish Enterprise Architecture Research FEAR\ect. In addition, the model was validated through stakeholder reviews by key actors of IDP, the consultancies \(TietoEnator Oyj, CapGemini\d the State administration representatives \(Ministry of Finance, State Treasury, Road Administration  6. GEA grid adaptation model \(Geagam  6.1. Underlying principles  The GEA grid adaptation model has been built on five main principles driven from literature and our experience in IDP. In the following, they are expressed as requirements for the GEA grid adaptation 1\ The GEA grid has to support a totality of organizational actors and service providers whether of public, private, or 3rd sector A very task of EA methods is to reduce the complexity PA 19] res u lti ng from numerous actors with various, possibly conflicting or overlapping goals at several administrative levels \(central, regional and local\ additional dimension emerges with privatization of public service production \(cf   For situ a tion s l i k e this n o si ng le  fixed, neither too generic GEA grid can tackle the EA modeling needed 2\ The GEA grid has to support systematic transformation towards a target state GEA A current state EA describes existing business practices and ICT infrastructures P A A target s t ate EA is a s t rate g i c  expression of will about a desired future st Following a trend towards modeling business-lines instead of single organization architectu  target state architecture of Finnish State administration aims at cross-sectoral, seamlessly integrated eServices 25 t o a v o i d se c t o r d r i ve n a d mi ni st r a t i ve si l o s P o l i c yprograms in Finland present a new strategic, political tool to manage these cross-sectoral development goals   pres e n t ed in S ection  3. How e v e r, s t rategic political tools alone can be seen inadequate to support these kinds of changes. Systematic methodical tools are needed 3\ The adaptation of description levels has to reflect a rational and centrally advised decomposition into coherent architectural entities In Section 2 we concluded that architectural dimensions \(BA, IA, SA TA\ave established themselves, whereas the description levels of EA frameworks still vary. The adaptation of the description levels is problematic if it is not centrally advised \(cf. Section 4.2.\ grid adaptation guidelines have to advise decomposing of the totality properly and coherently. The adaptation of the description levels have to reflect these guidelines for each architectural entity subject to EA planning  4\ Use of the GEA grid has to support EA planning at administrative management level One of the main objectives stated in the Geamep group was to produce a GEA grid that could be adapted for different operational purposes. Three major purposes were expressed First, the GEA grid should support planning of common, centralized services \(e.g., the centralized financial management of State administration\. Second, it should provide help in planning of cross-sectoral processes \(CSP\ clusters of organizations. Third, the GEA grid should be adaptable into the use of various organizational actors \(e.g. a university, an agency 5\ The GEA grid has to support analyzing and directing a whole-of-an-administration Besides EA planning of centralized services, CSPs, and organizational actors at central, regional or local levels \(cf. organization-specific adaptation e GEA g r id  should support the strategic political steering of an administration. Decision making in PA, occurring at the global level, is quite different from that occurring at the local lev T h e g l obal lev el ai m s at balan c ing the overall interests of many different local agencies am ple wh oleo f g ov er nm en t a n d  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


whole-of-ministry EA planning should identify and present relevant strategic issues for ministers  6.2. Types of use as two grid types  In our adaptation model we divide the use of the GEA grid in two types: for 1\ strategic use to enhance political steering, and for 2\al use to enhance management of an administrative unit In strategic use, the GEA grid is to model and direct a whole-of-an-administration \(e.g., a whole-ofgovernment, a whole-of-ministry\. The  parts of a large administrative entity are summed up and analyzed through a strategic grid type The strategic grid  type  sums parts of a large administrative entity in a relevant way. It consists of the description levels of government levels underneath the administration to be steered. The entire picture of the status quo will be summed up through gathering and analyzing EA descriptions of the parts. The future target architecture will be further outlined to eliminate overlaps, to reorganize the structure to form new coalitions for cross-sectoral goals, and to share responsibilities for different actors In operational use, the GEA grid guides modeling of an administrative unit concerning its operational domains and subsequent information systems An operational grid  type presents an EA grid adapted in an administrative unit of the government hierarchy in a communicative and relevant manner In the EA literature, there seems not to be an EA artifact suitable for the strategic grid type. For the operational grid type, we propose the  EA management grid EAG\y Hirvonen and Pulkkinen  32  adapted in the government hierarchy. It was utilized in the pilot adaptation in RA wi th promising experience We push this idea further by adapting the EAG in other administrative management purposes  6.3. GEA grid in State administration  Based on the aforementioned principles and types of use, we have engineered a GEA grid adaptation model \(Figure 1\mposed of four grids illustrating the strategic and operational use. The grids share the established architectural viewpoints of BA, IA, SA and TA. Each grid contains three description levels for its purpose. Albeit the Geagam seems to result in a bunch of grids in usage, the contents of different grids can be of two main options, that of the strategic or the operational type State administration grid exemplifies the strategic use of the GEA grid. The operational use is exemplified with EA grids for a centralized solution, a cluster and an organizational actor. The arrows signify the positioning of the three operational grids in respect to the topmost State administration entity, thus reflecting the decomposition of the totality for EA planning. The contents of the operational grids are explicated in the legend. The patterns in the cells of the State administration grid are not explained, since the grid analyzes and sums more government parts in summary than those that can be illustrated by the three operational grid instances. It should be noted that the number of actual grids depends on the situation at hand. The four grids in Figure 1 have been derived for the needs of Finnish state administration from the Geamep discussions \(cf an d th e ov erall res earch cas e s e tti ng In the following, we describe the grids and their use in more detail The State administration EA grid illustrates the strategic grid type for the highest purpose. The grid user collects information of branches and agencies thereof, yielding the global picture of the as is State administration architecture. This work should be facilitated by a centralized repository of architectural descriptions, as repeatedly argued in the Geamep group The State administration grid is to support communication between the highest officials and Government where the latter decides on future directions. Thus, the produced descriptions have to be conceptual and abstract, where excessive details are to be obscured The operational grid types present grids with a narrower scope The EA grid for centralized solutions  guides the planning and implementation of a common centralized service \(e.g., a central register, a central unit for support services, etc The  EA grid for a cluster is used to develop and implement common goals of a cluster. For example, there is a lack of customerdriven process architectures in child welfare. Different officials of child welfare should consider the continuum of a child s life and plan the service process among different service providers accordingly. The uppermost cluster level of the grid could include strategic descriptions of the cluster \(e.g., goals, agreements, and commitments The  EA grid for an organizational actor whether an agency, an enterprise or other organization\ guides the strategic planning and management to take into account the organizational environment In the State administration grid, the description level of branches of administration and the subsequent level of agencies present recognized pressures and challenges, conclusive maps of core business functions, information assets, technologies and constraints etc. Architectural pictures of different branches, and parts thereof, are compared with each others, and their shared and specific needs with possible overlaps and conflicts are revealed. Based on this information, essential shortcomings are recognized and presented at the highest level. The state administration level conProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


tains models and descriptions that bring value for Government The optional level of clusters in the State administration grid  can be utilized in the formulation of the target state EA parallel with capturing of the current branches. New co-operative organizational forms can be designed to by-pass the current state administrative silos. Plans of adding, deleting or adapting a branch, or parts thereof, can be made to establish a more effective form of organization or to define virtual forms of organization \(e.g., in T h e targ et s t a t e GE A provides, for example, future business-lines, clusters thereof, information assets and ICT strategies with wellgrounded transition plans. State administration EA planning yields further requirements to branches, organizations and clusters  BA TA SA IA State administration Branches of administration / Clusters Agencies of a branch Domains of a cluster BA TA SA IA Centralized unit Domains Systems of a domain BA TA SA IA Cluster Domains Systems of a domain EA grid for a centralized solution EA grid for a cluster BA TA SA IA Organisational actor Domains Systems of a domain EA grid for an organisational actor State administration EA grid BA = Business Architecture IA= Information Architectuer SA= Systems Architecture TA= Technology Architecture Strategic descriptions at the level of an organisational actor Strategic descriptions at the level of a a cluster Strategic descriptions of a centralized solution Concrete descriptions of a domain and its systems  Figure 1  GEA grid adaptation model \(Geagam\. Exa mples of strategic and operational use   In the operational grids for centralized services clusters or organizations, the description levels of EAG \(i.e. enterprise, domain and systems levels  r e adapted  T h es e are equ i pped w i t h su itable  description models. Typically, at the top levels of a centralized unit a cluster or an organization Figure 1\uture core services are considered in the light of chosen technologies m ples o f  s u i t able descriptions are target state process and services maps list of central registries information portfolio, IS portfolio, and current and future technologies   32 Moreov er, th e bou n d ar y v a lu e s e.g  standards, definitions of policies\ of the superior authority must definitely be taken into account   Examples of the domain level models are various process and stakeholder descriptions, and models on information carried in the processes \(e.g., a processinformation matrix t t h e lev e l of  systems of a domain the  models describe, for example, systems requirements, data structures, design structures and platforms of IT systems   To support the application of the Geagam we have constructed a procedur w h i c h gu i d es t h e  instantiation of the GEA grid into a concrete EA framework in an agency according to Geagam. It is beyond the space limit of this paper. Geagam has been crafted particularly for the adaptation of the GEA grid wherefore it is an integral part of it. The Geagam exemplifies adaptation of a layered EA grid in a hierarchical set of organisations where the aim is to enhance development of inter-organisational services too. The inherent ideas in the Geagam model can thus be applied with other layered EA grids  7. Benefits of Geagam  Geagam presents a structure of State administration EA planning descriptions and decisions, offering 1\ a managerial tool to plan and manage adminisProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


trative changes coherently The purpose of EA planning is to understand the future goals, whereafter their implementation is more straightforw During the transition, the structure of State administration may be diversiform, since the old and new operational structures may appear simultaneously Through a coherent method and adaptation, the complexity of the change can be managed 2\ perceivi ng State administration as a whole and presenting the big picture of it The current state architecture and the target state architectures need to be captured before organizational change can be implemented. Geagam helps to discern the descriptions of different levels and dependencies between them. When the information about strategic goals and projects is at a comparable level of abstraction, unessential details are obscured. Overlapping or conflicting goals and doubled efforts can thus be recognized more easily. Systematic production and structuring of EA descriptions reveals relevant information and pinpoints the strategic goals of political interest impartially. This enhances the prioritization and selection of the most important strategic goals, and the outlining of the government vision To implement the change 3\ Geagam can help the transformation process in many ways. During the stakeholder review of the model it appeared that a responsibility of organizing some development efforts \(e.g., for a centralized solution\ had been delegated to a single agency. Instead of just naming an agency as an implementer 3a\ an adapted grid can help to recognize the form of organization accordingly to the designed EA plans Furthermore 3b\ communication and commitment among organizational actors is enhanced Presenting strategic plans openly based on well-understood whole-of-an-administration architecture promotes discussion and commitment Moreover, the adaptation model offers a coherent terminology for adaptation. Using the grid types given in Geagam, the adaptation of an EA grid is easier than starting off with a clean slate. The grid types can be applied at different contexts more easily than that of only one original grid in T h u s  3c\ Geagam relieves the reuse of the GEA method  bringing synergy gains  4\ By using Geagam the overall interoperability is enhanced through methodical consistency Without adaptation guidelines there is a risk that different adaptations of the GEA method are not compatible and consistent. This may lead to unnecessary communication problems. The GEA method offers description templates to enhance syntactical comparability a m gu ides decom pos i n g a n en t i t y  into architectural sub-entities for EA development When the decomposition is formed by common guidelines, the comparison of the parts of the architecture is easier. This further facilitates the planning of future goals \(e.g., planning of CSPs  4a\ Geagam supports interoperability across the levels of hierarchy When national criteria for wide band network implementations were missing, it resulted undesirably in many diversified regional implementations lignm e n t of global an d local governments is thus to be supported by methodical tools. Vertical interoperability is an ability to exchange information from one level to an upper or a lower level of the hierarchy. The EA planning of an administration and of its underlying units are dependent on each others. Ministries pay attention to the State level boundaries, such as government program strategy specifications and budget frames, taking them into account in the planning of ministry-wide strategies. Policies on standards, technology usage and architectural principles are concerns of head officials of ministries. These interests are to be met through EA considerations. For actors underneath the ministries the information of the topmost levels is to be transferred systematically  4b\ Geagam supports different co-operative forms and interoperability across sectors Crossagency architectures and public-private partnerships are encouraged by adapting the GEA grid for clusters. Geagam supports a systematic way to implement cross-sectoral policy programs \(cf. Section 3\or which there are no ministries as implementers but which require a virtual organiza e r strong means of coordination Geagam is a theoretical construct derived from the literature and the practical projects. As far as we know, no such an adaptation model has been explicitly presented 5\ The model is abstract but advises the practical work at hierarchical domains of PA. It applies to a variety of situations In the context of merging several municipalities, for instance, strategic methods are essential. For the planning of the organizational change, EA planning can be organized using respective grid types of the Geagam. They can be applied to support gathering strategic information for the municipal board and administration \(strategic grid\he planning of centralized support functions new cross-sectoral service processes, and merged spheres of authority can be structured by using the three operational grid types respectively  8. Conclusions  This paper introduced a government EA grid adaptation model \(Geagam\The model was built on the knowledge of Finnish government, observations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


about government EA \(GEA\ method engineering and its pilot adaptations, and literature. The model is based on strategic and operational grid types used to advise political steering and administrative management, respectively. The previous type was exemplified by a State administration grid to support communication between highest state administration officials and Government. The operational type was suggested for three general purposes, for EA planning of a centralized solution, a cluster or any administrative organizational actor. The Geagam is an inherent part of the GEA grid Our model of GEA grid adaptation provides a novel tool for strategic political steering and management of strategy implementation. It supports GEA grid adoption as a strategic tool and facilitates the prioritization of government goals, implementation of government interoperability, and communication and commitment among government actors. The model presents systematic guidelines for situational GEA grid adaptation and reuse thus supporting consistency of adaptation Implementation of a common method and its adaptation practices across a large variety of organizations is challenging. Geagam has to be placed in action and applied in situ to be subjected to testing and validation. Moreover, Geagam should be enlarged with guidelines of how to adapt the process roles and description models of the GEA method The method offers a large toolkit of possible description models, where situational data of EA development use cases would be of benefit for both research and practice New laws on consolidation of municipalities \(e.g  a v e been pass ed in F i nlan d w h ich m a k e s architectural planning important also in municipal administration. The municipalities produce similar statutory services, and deploy information systems in relatively similar processes. Needs for harmonizing emerge. Also strategic political steering in local government is subject to stronger expectations in Finland  In th es e eff o rts  a m e a n s s u ch as Gea g a m  w o u l d be of great benefit to support adaptation of the government EA grid and EA planning. The present job of the first author in a Finnish town which is merging with 5 other municipalities, should enable the applying the Geagam in real situation and gaining of more evidence on the applicability of Geagam  Acknowledgements  The authors thank their research colleagues, the members of the projects and several other people in Finnish PA for valuable ideas, discussions and comments. The research was funded by the ValtIT research project, FEAR project and COMAS Graduate School  9. References  1  F.J. Armour, S.H. Kaisler, and S.Y. Liu Building an Enterprise Architecture Step by Step IT Professional July-August 1999, pp. 31-39 2  Bass, L., P. Clements, and R. Kazman, Software Architecture in Practice, Addison-Wesley, 1997 3  Braun C., and R. Winter, A Comprehensive Enterprise Architecture Metamodel and Its Implementation Using a Metamodeling Platform, Workshop in Klagenfurt, GIEdition Lecture Notes, 2005, 64-79 4  S. Brinkkemper, M. Saeki, and F. Harmsen Metamodelling Based Assembly Technique for Situational Method Engineering Information Systems 24\(3\1999, pp 209-228 5  Chief Information Officer Council, A Practical Guide to Federal Enterprise Architecture, v. 1.0, February 2001 http://www.gao.gov/bestpractices/bpeaguide.pdf 6  Christiansen, P.E., and J. Gotze, \(2006\rnational Enterprise Architecture Survey Trends in Governmental Enterprise Architecture on a National Level http://www.easurvey.org/06_easurveyreport_ver01.pdf 7  P.E. Christiansen, and J. Gotze Trends in Governmental Enterprise Architecture: Reviewing National EA Programs Part 1 Journal of Enterprise Architecture 3\(1 2007, pp. 8-18 8  A. Cordella E-government: Towards the eBureaucratic Form Journal of Information Technology 22\(3\, 2007, pp. 265-274 9  Executive Office of the President of the US, FEA Consolidated Reference Model Document, v. 2.3, 2007 10  FEA Practice Guidance. www.whitehouse.gov/omb egov/documents/FEA_Practice_Guidance_Nov_2007.pdf 11  Finlex, Law on Local Government Reform 9.2.2007/169, in Finnish, 2007 http://www.finlex.fi/fi/laki/ajantasa/2007/20070169 12  Finnish Government, Government Program 2008 http://www.valtioneuvosto.fi/hallitus/hallitusohjelma/en.jsp 13  Finnish Government, Government Policy Programmes at Vanhanen's Cabinet 2003 2007. valtioneuvosto.fi/tietoarkisto/politiikkaohjelmat/en.jsp 14  A. Hevner, S. March, J. Park, and S. Ram Design Science in Information Systems Research MIS Quarterly 26\(1\, 2004, pp. 75-105 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


15  Hirvonen, A., M. Pulkkinen, J. Ahonen, and V. Halttunen, The Gap between Strategies and Implementation Methodic Support for EA Projects as a Bridge, IBIMA 2003, Cairo, 2003 16  Hirvonen, A., and M. Pulkkinen, A Practical Approach to EA Planning and Development: the EA Management Grid, BIS 04, Poznan, Poland, 2004, 284-302 17  Hirvonen, A., M. Pulkkinen, and K. Valtonen, Selection Criteria for Enterprise Architecture Methods, ECIME conference 2007, Montpellier, France, 2007 18  Janssen, M., and A. Cresswell, Enterprise Architecture Integration in E-government, 38th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2005 19  Janssen, M., and G. Kuk, A Complex Adaptive System Perspective of Enterprise Architecture in Electronic Government, HICSS-39, Hawaii, 2006 20  Järvinen, P., On Research Methods, Opinpaja Oy Tampere, 2003 21  F. Karlsson, and P. Ågerfalk Method Configuration Adapting to Situational Characteristics While Creating Reusable Assets Information and Software Technology 46\(9\, 2004, pp. 619-633 22  Leist, S., and G. Zellner, Evaluation of Current Architecture Frameworks, SAC 06, Dijon, France, 2006, 23-27 23  Leppänen, M., An Ontological Framework and a Methodical Skeleton for Method Engineering, Jyväskylä Studies in Computing 52, University of Jyväskylä, Dissertation thesis, 2005 24  R. Malan, and D. Bredemeyer Less is More with Minimalist Architecture IT Pro Sept/Oct, 2002, pp. 46-48 25  Ministry of Finance, Government Policy Decision on the Development of IT Management in State Administration, Public Management Department Publications 3c/2006 Finland, www.vm.fi/publications 26  Ministry of Finance, The GEA Method, User manual 1.0, 29.6.2007, in Finnish, Referred 15.6.2008 http://www.hare.vn.fi/upload/Asiakirjat/12260/104939_Lo ppuraportti_Liite_02_Arkkitehtuurimenetelmä.pdf 27  Ministry of Finance, Functioning of PA, 2008 http://www.suomi.fi/suomifi/english/in_focus/functioning_ of_public_administration/index.html 28  OpenGroup, The Open Group Architecture Framework \(TOGAF\ Version 8.1 Enterprise Edition referred on 4.12.2006, http://www.opengroup.org/togaf 29  Prime Minister s Office, Renewed Model of Programme Management, Policy Programmes in Government Work, Prime Minister s Office Publications 13/2006, In Finnish, Edita Prima Oyj, Helsinki, 2006 30  Prime Minister s Office, Government Strategy Document 2007, Prime Minister s Office Publications 4/2008 Helsinki University Print, Helsinki, 2008 31  Pulkkinen, M., and A. Hirvonen, EA Planning, Development and Management Process for Agile Enterprise Development, 38 th HICSS 2005 32  Pulkkinen, M., Systemic Management of Architectural Decisions in Enterprise Architecture Planning. Four Dimensions and Three Abstraction Levels, 39 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS 06\auai, Hawaii, 2006 33  Punia, D.K., K.B.C. Saxena, Managing Interorganizational Workflows in eGovernment Services ICEC 04,  2004, 500-505 34  Road Administration EA, GEA Method adapted for RA, v. 0.9., 2007. Project document in Finnish 35  Schekkerman., J., How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks. Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 36  Spewak, Steven H. \(1992\nterprise Architecture Planning: Developing a Blueprint for Data, Applications and Technology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc, New York 37  H. Shah, and M.E. Kourdi Frameworks for Enterprise Architecture IT Professional 9\(5\ 2007, pp. 36-41 38  State Audit Office, Execution of Regional Information Society Projects, Report of Inspection 158/2008, in Finnish 39  State Treasury, EA Method for ST, 2007. Project document in Finnish 40  Tiili, M., Ministers as Strategic Political Leaders Strategic Political Steering after NPM Reforms in Finland Academic dissertation, Acta Politica 34, Department of Political Science, Univerity of Helsinki, 2008 41  Valtonen, K., and M. Leppänen, Business Architecture Development at Public Administration Insights from Government EA Method Engineering Project in Finland ISD 08 Conference, Pafos, Cyprus 2008 42  Valtonen, K., and V. Seppänen, Adaptation and Adoption of Finnish Government EA Method, Public Management Department Publications 4/2008, Ministry of Finance 29.1.2008. In Finnish, English summary www.vm.fi/publications 43  Winter, R., and R. Fischer, Essential Layers, Artifacts and Dependencies of Enterprise Architecture, EDOCW '06 2006 44  J.A. Zachman A Framework for Information Systems Architecture IBM Systems Journal 26\(3\, 1987, pp 276-292 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 Advances Ideas 225  Restates, reframes, and clarifies others 222 questions to ensure understanding among group members by questioning and measuring an idea against system requirements 225  Fosters open two-way discussions.  Brainstorms with others to solicit various viewpoints.  Allows and encourages people to state opinions while listening for connections and disconnects in logic 225  Engages the team by explaining how th e solution or approach was reached Gains Respect Credibility, and Trust 225  Uses respectful tone, words and body language 225  Follows through on commitments and serves as an advocate for the team 225  Demonstrates understanding and appreciation of the challenges others face 225  Earns the respect of team members by demonstrating personal integrity Conducts business in an honest and tr ustworthy manner by avoiding deception and treating team members fairly 225  Sees trust of self and others as a perv asive element required to achieve success 225  Earns trust and respect of others by having a strong understanding of the system\222s technical requirements and assigns work based on the individual\222s skills and abilities.  Understands that not everyone is an \223A player\224 225  Lets team members do their job.  Tells them what has to be done, but not how to do it Possesses SelfConfidence 225  Willing to speak up, regardless of who is present to ensure the most technically sound decision is made for the good of the overall system 225  Demonstrates a positive attitude and exhibits confidence 225  Sits back and listens to group discussions while building models and connections and/or identifying disconnects Has a Comprehensive View 225  Takes responsibility for the whole life-cycle the whole system and all its parts Understands the whole job and that it is never done 225  Strikes a balance between what must happen to obtain success and what must not happen to avert failure Possesses a Positive Attitude and Dedication to Mission Success 225  Encourages a success oriented environment by displaying passion, excitement and enthusiasm about the work and th e challenges faced by the system 225  Is dedicated to mission success by worki ng until the job is successfully completed even if that means working long hours to ensure the job is done 225  Creates a \223can do\224 atmosphere by providi ng positive feedback and is empathetic toward team members.  Encourages others with their \223can do\224 attitude Is Aware of Personal Limitations 225  Seeks guidance from experts.  Knows what they know and what they don\222t know and seeks others to fill in missing data 225  Acknowledges technical limitations to others.  Does this with ease Adapts to Change and Uncertainty 225  Presses on with the project and ensures that the implications of change are addressed throughout the entire system in the face of ever-changing requirements  225  May make decisions with incomplete or imperfect data 225  Understands that change is inevitable and takes appropriate actions quickly.  May assemble other technical experts to brains torm various avenues and approaches to support the change 225  Remains calm under pressure. Looks at things pragmatically and understands what's going on. Doesn't over-react Uses Intuition Sensing 225  Uses both intuition and sensing when evaluating a problem or making a decision Does not rely solely on data.  May use of gut feeling" if data is inconclusive 225  Moves concepts and ideas easily through artificial boundaries.  Uses intuition and the senses to penetrate the system and discover or synthesize solutions to a problem Is Able to Deal  with Politics, Financial Issues, and Customer Needs 225  Is politically savvy.  Understands the larger forces at work.  Studies the political and financial issues and impacts 225  Shares and uses knowledge and expertise that shapes the political and financial environment in positive ways 


  12 225  Balances tasks and deliverables against resources and designs processes that save time and money 225  Possesses the ability to in terface with the customer and successfully lead discussions to create an understanding of system status across various levels, both up, down and across  Table 8 Communication Theme, Competencies, Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Listens Effectively and Translates Information 225  Sees the system from various perspectives Listens and acts as translator between parties \(subsystems, Project, vendors and other customers necessary information from others 225  Communicates project status to management and other key internal and external stakeholders.  Clearly communicates requirements to providers of the subsystem elements 225  Is an excellent listener.  Is keenly aware of what is being said and of omissions Listens for themes that continue to surface.  Then there comes a point where the SE will begin to penetrate by asking questions.  If questions are not adequately answered, the SE will begin to focus on the potential soft spot 225  Listens to identify critical elements or parameters of the problem.  Listens for information that leads to connections be tween system elements and information that disrupts connections 225  Clarifies and simplifies ideas under discussion by offering and/or requesting summation" statements Communicates Effectively Through Personal Interaction 225  Consistently communicates progress and gains understanding from others on what challenges and successes are faced by the systems design.  May meet face to face on a daily, sometimes hourly basis to ensure everyone is in the loop understand the systems requirements 225  Prefers personal interaction over e-mail Uses face-to-face interaction as a primary communication channel to hear concerns, share information, build rapport, create buy-in and create relationships within a team 225  Communicates in a clear and concise manner 225  Facilitates effective communication in t eam meetings and throughout the project by regularly interacting with people on the team and getting them together to ensure everyone is up-to-date  Facilitates an Environment of Open and Honest Communication 225  Welcomes divergent opinions by creating an atmosphere where team members feel the freedom to openly express their opinions.  Encourages and respects differing opinions in order to drive convergence on decisions 225  Promotes open, honest communication by asking questions, protecting proprietary information, protecting minority opinions, and incorporating valuable ideas that are shared in the system design Identifies and takes steps to remove communication barriers that are unique to particular individuals or groups 225  Patiently listens to each of the team memb ers/discipline experts in order to assure that everyone gets heard--that all divers e and dissenting opinions are considered Listens to all who want to speak, does not communicate irritation and does not shut people down 225  Effectively facilitate teams, meetings and disagreements.  Asks clarifying probing and penetrating questions to ensure all information is out on the table 225  Demonstrates accessibility and approach ability by having an open door policy  Uses Visuals to Communicate Complex Interactions 225  Graphically pulls together ideas, issues and observations to better understand and explain all systems and interfaces and to solve complex problems.  Uses visuals such as Venn diagrams, models, pictures, charts, metaphors, archetypes, and other relevant representations, to communicate complex problems or to display the 


  13 interconnections of sub-elements 225  Keeps everyone involved by keeping accurate records of big and small picture aspects affecting the system and distributing information in advance Communicates Through Story Telling and Analogies 225  Uses personnel experiences to build conn ections and provide explanations by using engineering and non-engineering stories and analogies.  For example creates analogies from histor ical events, everyday experiences and \223life lessons\224 to better explain concepts and ideas to others 225  Shares experiences and \223lessons learned\224 with others to support future systems design Is Comfortable with Making Decisions 225  Makes decisions in a confident and timely manner when appropriate \226 with or without complete or optimal information \226 allowing team members to maintain forward progress on their assigned tasks 225  Carefully monitors the impact of deci sions on system performance, backtracking and changing direction if necessary.  When the team's forward progress is not at stake, the SE may choose to postpone decision-making and engage in more detailed analysis 225  Stays on point until ideas are heard, rec ognizes when enough data is gathered to make a decision, and then moves on. Willing to revisit decision if new data warrants it 225  Makes difficult or unpopular decisions, keeping the best interest of the system in mind, weighing the potential risks to team cohesion and interpersonal relationships against system performance  Table 9 Problem Solving and Systems Thi nking Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Identifies the Real Problem 225  Identifies the critical problem to be solved by asking questions and identifying the key requirements 225  Recognizes what is technically right among many good ideas by viewing a problem across system boundaries and co mparing each design to the other 225  Frames the problem in a logical way and identifies resources required to solve the problem efficiently 225  Solves problems with the team by listening for the issue, pinpoints problem areas makes recommendations, and then steps out.  Avoids side trips and unnecessary minutiae and focuses on important issues Assimilates Analyzes, and Synthesizes Data 225  Assimilates and distills large quantities of data and ensures all of the data is on the table to solve a problem or make a decision.  Ensures decisions made are supported with data 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters, prioritizes the parameters, then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution 225  Has the ability to rapidly recall data 225  Approaches and solves problems in a systematic manner by using tools processes, procedures in order to find solutions Thinks Systemically 225  Looks across the entire system and facilita tes trades and compromises to get a balanced design.  Ensures that the integrity of the system as a whole does not suffer because of over optimizing any of the smaller pieces 225  Sees multi-view representations of sy stems to understand how the pieces fit together and interact. Visualizes systems in 3-D. Draws a picture in his or her mind, or on paper 225  Is able to look deep enough into a problem without losing focus on the big picture.  Sees the big picture while at the same time demonstrating an overall awareness of the details 225  Breaks the problem down into smaller manageable parts 225  Understands how the system works, what it was designed to do, its functions and 


  14 requirements. Is able to analyze the systems data. Traces implications of a problem in a step-by-step manner across the system Has the Ability to Find Connections and Patterns Across the System 225  Integrates and provides a connection between the various engineering segments of the project.  Is able to identify c onnections from separate elements of the project that others would not notice and brings these connections to the team's attention as a means to assist in solving underlying issues 225  Examines and explores the implications of how technical decisions being made affect the bigger system architecture Sees the ripple effect of changing requirements or making changes to any element of the system 225  Able to see system interfaces. Identifie s the impact that changes to one subsystem are having--or might have--on other sub-systems.  Locates and corrects sub-system 'disconnects' or 'inconsistencies' that are having a negative impact on system performance Sets Priorities 225  Sets technical priorities in order to maintain the balance for the problems at hand while achieving system requirements Keeps the Focus on Mission Requirements 225  Is focused on developing a system that meets the end-item product objectives and does not lose sight of this while integr ating the pieces of the system into the whole system 225  Studies, understands, and articulates the project\222s overall objectives.  Knows what the system must do and be in order to accomplish its objectives 225  Sets technical priorities with principal investigator and subsystem engineers to achieve system requirements Possesses Creativity and Problem Solving Abilities 225  Enjoys and is energized by fully concentrating on a problem for long stretches until solutions are formed and implemented. Possesses passion for problem solving 225  Takes the initiative to solve the problems 225  Solves problems with the team by listening to the issues, pinpointing problem areas, making technical recommendations; may help implement the solution 225  Does not adhere to rigid rules or formulas for system design, but may create new ideas and approaches that are necessary to deal successfully with system constraints Validates Facts Information and Assumptions 225  Breaks data into smaller pieces or parame ters.  Prioritizes the parameters then synthesizes the data to reach an answer or solution by examin ing system and subsystem operations in minute detail.  Recognizing that seemingly minor miscalculations can lead to signifi cant problems in system performance 225  Questions all assumptions that go into the design 225  Looks for, and anticipates, problems or issu es in the system in places that may not be covered with the right kind of data to make a decision 225  Looks for answers that may not be readily apparent from just looking at the data alone.  Does not rely solely on data Remains Open Minded and Objective 225  Receptive to hearing diverse varying opinions.  Is willi ng to re-think/re-work an issue or to change direction when new information or a better idea is presented 225  Evaluates decisions objectively.  Maintains flexibility by avoiding 'ownership' of a particular strategy or point of view Draws on Past Experiences 225  Draws from his or her hands-on experiences to develop the proper feel for succeeding on future projects, knowing when something looks "ri ght" versus "not even close\223 from past successes and failures 225  Solves problems with a balance of innovative developments and proven heritage products.  May rely on experience and ex isting design as guides, but sees each opportunity as a canvas to design new solutions 225  Uses experience, history, intuition, and se nsing in order to assess the situation and develop a solution Manages Risk 225  Uses past experiences to anticipate pot ential problems that may impact system performance 225  Identifies the key indicators and methods of testing for each type of problem 


  15 225  Develops mitigation strategi es for addressing the problems, should they arise 225  Is risk savvy. Understands that risk is perpetual and needs to be managed  Table 10 Technical Acumen Theme, Competencies and Behaviors Middle Competencies Actual Behaviors Possesses Technical Competence and Has Comprehensive Previous Experience 225  Shares his or her project experience, a nd acts as a reliable resource to the team and serves as the \221go to\222 person 225  Demonstrates the depth of technical knowledge and expertise necessary to perform, manage, and coordinate work-related activities 225  Possesses a strong, fundamental understanding of engineering principles along with a cross-disciplinary background 225  Engages specialists for their t echnical knowledge and abilities 225  Demonstrates ability to focus on details while keeping the big picture in mind.  Is able to shift focus between the two with ease 225  Uses an iterative process to refine the design to accomplish the system requirements Learns from Successes and Failures 225  Shares with others lessons learned.  Lessons come from a strong base of engineering experiences acr oss the full life-cycle 225  Documents and studies the successes and failures of both the current and previously developed systems.  Uses this information to make decisions that reduce risk and maximize the probability of success 225  Is willing to learn from past failures as well as successes.  Understands both are important  


  16 Table 11 Myers-Briggs Type Indicator \(MBTI Mental Processes and Orientations [25 Natural energy orientation   Extraverted \(E Face is directed towards the OUTER world of activities, excitements, people, and things 200  Instinctively search for facts and logic in a decision situation 200  Act first, think/reflect later 200  Feel deprived when cutoff from interaction with the outside world 200  Usually open to and motivated by outside world of people and things 200  Enjoy wide variety and change in people relationships Intraverted \(I Face is directed inward to the INNER world of thoughts, interests, ideas, and imagination 200  Think/reflect first, then act 200  Regularly require an amount of "private time" to recharge batteries 200  Motivated internally, mind is sometimes so active it is "closed" to outside world 200  Prefer one-to-one communication and relationships Way of perceiving or understanding and taking in information  Sensing \(S The Sensing side of our brain notices the sights sounds, smells and all the sensory details of the PRESENT It categorizes, organizes, records and stores the specifics from the here and now. It is REALITY based, dealing with "what is." It also provides the specific details of memory and recollections from PAST events 200  Mentally live in the Now, attending to present opportunities 200  Using common sense and creating practical solutions is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall is rich in detail of facts and past events 200  Best improvise from past experience 200  Like clear and concrete information; dislike guessing when facts are "fuzzy Intuitive \(N The Intuitive side of our brain seeks to understand interpret and form OVERALL patterns of all the information that is collected and records these patterns and relationships. It speculates on POSSIBILITIES  including looking into and forecasting the FUTURE  It is imaginative and conceptual 200  Mentally live in the Future, attending to future possibilities 200  Using imagination and creating/inventing new possibilities is automatic-instinctual 200  Memory recall emphasizes patterns, contexts and connections 200  Best improvise from theoretical understanding 200  Comfortable with ambiguous, fuzzy data and with guessing its meaning Way of forming judgments and making choices and decisions  Thinking \(T The Thinking side of our brain analyzes information in a DETACHED objective fashion. It operates from factual principles, deduces and forms conclusions systematically. It is our logical nature  200  Naturally notices tasks and work to be accomplished 200  Easily able to provide an objective and critical analysis 200  Accept conflict as a natural, normal part of relationships with people Feeling \(F The Feeling side of our brain forms conclusions in an ATTACHED and somewhat global manner, based on likes/dislikes, impact on others, and human and aesthetic values. It is our subjective nature 200  Instinctively employ personal feelings and impact on people in decision situations 200  Naturally sensitive to people\222s needs and reactions 200  Naturally seek consensus and popular opinions 200  Unsettled by conflict; have almost a toxic reaction to disharmony Action orientation towards the outside world     Judging \(J A Judging style approaches the outside world WITH A PLAN and is oriented towards organizing one's surroundings, being prepared, making decisions and reaching closure and completion 200  Plan many of the details in advance before moving into action 200  Focus on task-related action; complete meaningful segments before moving on 200  Work best and avoid stress when keep ahead of deadlines 200  Naturally use targets, dates and standard routines to manage life Perceiving \(P A Perceiving style takes the outside world AS IT COMES and is adopting and adapting, flexible, openended and receptive to new opportunities and changing game plans 200  Comfortable moving into action without a plan plan on-the-go 200  Like to multitask, have variety, mix work and play 200  Naturally tolerant of time pressure; work best close to the deadlines 200  Instinctively avoid commitments which interfere with flexibility, freedom and variety 


  17 Figure 1 MBTI Types Occurring in SEs Studied Across the Agency                                    Figure 2 Preliminary MBTI Results for JPL\222s Highly Regarded Systems E\ngineers   ESFP Performer/Entertainer   ESTP Maneuverer/Promoter   ENTP Inventor/Improvisor    ENTJ Director/Commandant   ISFP Performer/Composer   ISTP Maneuverer/Operator  INTP Inventor/Designer   INTJ Foreseer/Mobilizer   ESFJ Provider/Caretaker   ESTJ Overseer/Supervisor   ENFP Proponent/Messenger   ENFJ Foreseer/Mobilizer  ISFJ Provider/Nourisher   ISTJ Overseer/Inspector   INFP Proponent/Advocate  INFJ Foreseer/Developer NF 3 NT 56 SJ 15 SP 26 SE MBTI types represented across the agency 


Investigator with the Ohio University Avionics Engineering Center.  He earned his Ph.D. from Ohio University and holds a B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E from Delft University of Technology located in the Netherlands.  He has been involved with GPS landing systems  research, advanced signal processing techniques for GPS receivers, GPS/INS integrated systems, and terrain-referenced navigation systems.  The latter includes the development of terrain data base integrity monitors as an enabling technology for Synthetic Vision Systems and autonomous aircraft operation      pre></body></html 


           7 C ur re nt ly n ot w or ki ng 2  0 0 5  0 0 8 0 04 0 04 0 0 1 0 16  0 16             8 C ur re nt ly in e du ca tio n2   0 6 


6 7  0 01 0 1 9 0 08  0 03 0 6 8 0 0 7 0 3 2           9 C ur re nt ly w or ki ng 2  0 2 8  0 03 0 18  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 64  0 00 0 1 4 0 8 9   


        10 E du ca tio n ac hi ev ed 3  3 5 7 1 5 2  0 04 0 02 0 2 1 0 1 2 0 16  0 02 0 1 6 0 13  0 0 6         11 D is pe ns ab le in co m e   


  21 0 9 2 72 7  0 14  0 0 1 0 09  0 08  0 2 0 0 00 0 0 4 0 18  0 1 6 0 0 1        In te rn et u sa ge                     


  12 A ct iv e in te rn et u sa ge 1  0 0 2 0 9 6 0 2 1 0 25  0 11  0 12  0 10  0 0 4 0 05  0 0 8 0 0 5 0 0 1 0 12        13 H ou rs o nl in e h ou rs 


rs   2 6 5 3 0 3  0 04 0 12  0 1 1 0 0 3 0 40  0 0 7 0 0 7 0 4 7 0 5 3 0 07  0 1 1 0 07       14 W illi ng ne ss to p ay 1  1 8 3 0 6 3  0 03 0 10 


10  0 07  0 08  0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 01  0 00 0 0 5 0 14  0 04 0 05      G am e sp ec ifi c va ria bl es                      15 T en 


ur e w ee ks   2 8 2 3 5 2 0 2 6 0 31  0 0 9 0 01 0 12  0 0 4 0 02 0 0 9 0 0 9 0 07  0 02 0 13  0 08  0 0 4    16 C ro ss o ve r on o ffl in e 4  0 1 5 


5 1 1 1 0 1 9 0 11  0 13  0 18  0 2 0 0 1 4 0 0 7 0 14  0 1 1 0 0 4 0 08  0 15  0 0 5 0 01 0 07    17 S at is fa ct io n1   18 7 5 1 3 16  0 18  0 00 


00 0 44  0 52  0 1 4 0 0 3 0 02 0 07  0 0 9 0 1 4 0 10  0 08  0 0 6 0 09  0 0 1 0 13   18 C om m itm en t1  0 6 2 0 8 3 0 3 1 0 13  0 37  0 39  0 0 7 


7 0 0 6 0 02 0 03  0 0 4 0 1 3 0 14  0 17  0 0 5 0 09  0 07  0 19  0 58  S ou rc e O w n ca lc ul at io n N ot e N  1 3 89 o bs er va tio ns S ig ni fic an ce le ve ls 


ls  p  0 05 S D  S ta nd ar d de vi at io n 1 5 po in t L ik er t s ca le ra ng in g fro m 2 to 2  2 du m m y va ria bl e 3 o rd in al v ar ia bl e ra ng in g fro m v oc at io na l e du ca 


tio n to P h D 4 n um be r o f c on ta ct s   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


