Combination of Interoperability Registries with Process and Data Management Tools for Governmental Services Transformation  Yannis Charalabidis National Technical University of Athens yannisx@epu.ntua.gr  Fenareti Lampathaki National Technical University of Athens flamp@epu.ntua.gr  John Psarras National Technical University of Athens john@epu.ntua.gr Abstract  
Digital government applications are providing more and more electronic services on-line, for citizens and businesses worldwide.  However, the new services are in many cases an exact electronic equivalent of existing manual services, thus failing to significantly reduce administrative burden and provide the promised productivity gains  both for the administrations and the final users Interoperability Registries, as fully electronic repositories of the flow, the input and output documents and relevant standardization, pose as an infrastructure that can s upport electronic services composition and publishing.  In the presented 
approach, the use of such registries is extended to cover the optimization of ma nual or electronic services towards citizens and businesses, through the use of Business Process Management and XML Authoring tools Going beyond the current state of the art, the approach implies a model-driven transformation of service provision.  The resulting infrastructure can then become a ubiquitous system, supporting service composition, automated execution and optimization   1. Introduction Common repositories of definitions and standards for electronic government have been attracting more 
and more attention during the last years, in an effort of administrations to create and share semantically rich information on services and documents.  Such repositories are usually prescribed by eGovernment Interoperability Standards and Frameworks Government Systems Architecture definitions i n  the form of infrastructures assisting the definition of truly interoperable, one-stop services However, most such infrastructures currently play the role of information containers for the definition and retrieval of XML data templates, failing to effectively 
assist in service transformation and execution.  Based on recent analysts reports, Interoperability Registries have to play a more active role in service execution within the oncoming landscape of new eGovernment services th e pres e n t  paper, n e w  h i gh qu alit y e-Government services are perceived as efficient, onestop services provided through multiple channels and with the minimum resources, information requirements and cost for all the stakeholders \(i.e. citizens businesses and public organizations 
Furthermore, Interoperability Registries, if extended to include formal ways of describing and restructuring governmental processes, can also assist in the transformation of services provided to citizens and businesses, from manual to electron 23   In the present paper, an approach for combining the descriptive power of Interoperability Registries with Business Process Management and XML Authoring tools is proposed, filling the gap between static representation of services and dynamic, automated 
service transformation.  The core ingredients of the proposed approach lie in the utilization of Interoperability Registries as the cornerstones of service and document definitions, to be constantly available within the whole public sector, coupled with   Tools for the formal modeling of the process flow that is behind each service provision, in Business Process Modeling Notation \(BPMN form   Tools for the coordinated management of data definitions, allowing for the incorporation of UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical 
Specification \(CCTS\ methodology and available, reusable components a n  effort to provide common, standardized definitions across hundreds of governmental service forms and documents   A step-by-step method for utilizing the provided systems, towards the managed transformation of services and documents Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 


The structure of the present paper is as following Section 2 describes the current state of the art in eGovernment registries, analyzing the main elements contained in most implementations worldwide Section 3 presents the proposed extension of the registry functionality towards service transformation and the underlining methodologies and tools Application scenaria are presented in Section 4 providing extensive information on population and usage of the Greek Interoperability Registry Conclusions upon the merits and limitations of the approach, as well as next challenges to be tackled are contained in Section 5  2. The Ingredients of Interoperability Registries The need for Interoperability Registries was first recognized in the area of eBusines T h e m o st  well-known initiatives in the field, ebXML d RosettaNet e n t to day a s e ries o f  s u cce s s  stories in their portfolio, propose solutions and set guidelines in an environment with many similarities compared to eGovernment In eGovernment, implementation standards for eGovernment Services are specified and guided by eGovernment Interoperability Frameworks \(eGIFs However, interoperability registries, although necessary for eGovernment adoption [18  a v e n o t  been effectively supported and tend to focus only on the semantic aspect of interoperability with XML schemas for the exchange of specific-context information throughout the public sector within the country borders without dealing with service descriptions or web services deployment. Current frameworks in this direction are [12 3 6    In the United Kingdom, the e-Government Interoperability Framework d its relev a n t  specifications \(e.g. the e-Government Metadata Stan d t h e S c h e m a  Gu ideli n e s [5  issued by the e-Government Unit are supplemented by the GovTalk XML Schema Library w i t h approx i m atel y 78 XM L Schemas \(coming up to 102 with all versions taken into account   In Germany, the Standards and Architectures for e-Government Applications \(SAGA  by the KBSt will soon be accompanied by XRepository, a registry that will contain a small number of XML Schemas and a set of more than 50 codelists   In Denmark, the latest version of the Interoperability Framework [21 h a s been  released by KIU since 2006. InfoStructureBase  t h e D a n i sh col l a borat i o n t ool prom ot i ng interoperability, includes an international standards repository containing business process descriptions, datamodel descriptions interface descriptions, complex XML schemas and schema fragments \(information objects from public and private organizations and an UDDI repository containing information on web services   In Hong Kong, the Information Technology The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region \(HKSAR\as established the HKSARG Interoperability Framework Version 5.1 d pu blis h e s C o m m o n  Schemas on the XML registry     In Italy, Arianna project h a s def i n e d an  ontology for e-Government public services and deployed a repository containing service descriptions mainly at local level   At a pan-European level, the European Interoperability Framew h ich i s  currently being revised by IDABC  m e t  As far as the Semantic Interoperability aspect is concerned, EU-Project SEMIC.EU Semantic Interoperability Centre Europe  has also been launched in order to support the data exchange for pan-European eGovernment services. A Working Group in CEN/ISSS   a s als o been es tablis h e d in order to  investigate the discovery and access to eGovernment resources, yet its results are under preparation today   In the United States of America, the National Information Exchange Model \(NIEM  designed to develop, disseminate and support enterprise-wide information exchange standards and processes that can enable jurisdictions to effectively share critical information in emergency situations, as well as support the day-to-day operations of agencies  As depicted in Figure 1, an Interoperability Registry that can support service transformation and execution should consist of   A Database Management System handling the transactions with the data storage level   A Business Process Management Suite supporting service modeling in BPMN and / or UML notations, as well as service simulation Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  An XML Management and Authorware Platform for the formal documents and messages definitions in XML   A Web Interface for the definition and the presentation of eGovernment knowledge   A middleware infrastructure that provides the functionality of automated exchange of eGovernment knowledge between information systems and supports the service execution at runtime   with  the  help  of   the   web  services    technology            Figure 1: The Contents of the extended Interoperability Registry    The contents of the Interoperability Registry extend over   Core Registry Elements including services documents and systems definitions, service execution and legal rules. Such elements are detailed according to their particular nature  th e bas i s o f  m e tadata s c h e m a s  l i k e  th e  Dublin Core   Common Codelists that include predefined values to be communicated and be mutually understood among information systems. Such codelists originate: a\rom international standardization organizations, such as the ISO 3166-1 country codes O 4217 as th e  currency e UNECE U n its o f  Measure used in International Trade b  from national standardization efforts, targeting for example, at public entities, service types government category list \(GCL\, c\ from vertical standards in sectors, such as finance justice, health, education and defense   Common Data Structures harmonizing governmental documents and promoting reuse of existing libraries and internationally accepted standards \(i.e. the UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical Specification, also known as ISO 15000-5 stan   Managing and transforming such governmental data structures involves not only horizontal and sectoral XML Schema definitions, but core components as generic data components and their core data types, as well The gaps in the current state of the art presented in this chapter that the proposed approach for eGovernment Interoperability Registries attempts to fill mainly lie in the adoption of the service-oriented or follow-the-service approach, in the parallel exploitation of BPM and XML tools along with the registry and in the binding between service and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


service-relevant definitions, workflow models and execution approaches  3. Interoperability Registries supporting Service Transformation In order to achieve the vision of one-stop service provision, most governmental administrations need to perform some kind of transformation in their services an activity that usually happens in parallel with the digitization process..Usual objectives for service transformation include the embellishment of organizational, semantic or technical interoperability within the provision of such services.  In parallel with this transformation need, most administrations in European Union currently implement specific projects for the reduction of administrative burdens and minimization of overall service cost for administrations and users Within this framework, Business Process Management \(BPM\as been a recent trend in public administrations worldwide, following a relevant adoption by large enterprises. Although BPM in enterprises has enough challenges, its application in public sector processes reveals important specificities and issues that need to be tackled, as   Public sector organizations offer a large number of service types, usually being at the range of a few thousand, if we count local regional and national level administrations Furthermore, the documents needed as inputs or are produced as outputs of the above services \(applications, certificates, permits etc\o counted at the range of several thousan h es e v a s t  n u m b ers o f  processes and documents exceed any relevant complexity usually found in private sector enterprises and require much more efficient management mechanisms   Business Process Reengineering \(BPR\ in public sector organizations has to follow longer and deeper circles since the time needed for adoption and application of changes is usually larger than in a private sector enterprise.  This is shown by rates of governmental projects that fail, when time is limited or management systems cannot support this need for constant change    Legal issues have often to be considered when a significant process change is to be performed in a set of public services, requiring the interconnected management of the legal elements and structures that affect the targeted services  Based on the above, there is a need for systems that can support the inherent complexity of public sector processes, provide for constant management of the process steps and documents, together with all the related information concerning legal issues. This is why an Interoperability Registry, by nature providing global and interconnected information on services documents, organizations and systems is an important asset for service transformation  3.1 Registry-driven eGovernment transformation methodology For the transformation of governmental services processes and documents, a multi-phase methodology is proposed, that will ensure proper information flow among diverse stakeholders, such as public sector administrations at national or local level, eGovernment practitioners and consulting firms.  In this method, as depicted in Figure 2, the Interoperability Registry serves as a ubiquitous infrastructure for storing and retrieval of standardized components.  The phases of this approach cater for initial modelling, transformation and final \(re\mplementation of the needed software elements, as described in the following paragraphs  Phase A: Modelling  In this phase, the processes and documents behind the execution of each service are being modelled Formal methods and tools used at this phase can be selected from a large variety of existing standards, but BPMN and Unified Modelling Language \(UML Activity, Class and Sequence Diagrams are certainly prevailing notations used for analytical process and data models.  Important methodology elements in the modelling phase are the following i  Since a service to be modeled might already exist in the registry, a query is done before any modeling step is performed.  The same applies for documents modelling, as many forms are common across public sector organizations All the metadata information contained in the registry, as described in Section 2, plays an important role when searching for process or data components ii  When a service cannot be located as existing, a new model is created, depicting the as-is  status.  In this modelling activity, all existing elements have to be properly reused or interconnected with the new process or data Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


definition \(e.g. inserting a new swimlane in a BPMN diagram for an administration usually implies just selecting the pre-existing administration from the registry data base iii  When a governmental document does not exist in the registry, the document is modelled, using UML Class Diagram notation, at field level iv  Additional information is inserted for the service or document being analyzed, so as to assist proper categorization, interrelation with existing elements and retrieval v  Additional metadata information is entered for the context of the service or the document, if that context is not already modelled and existing in the registry \(e.g. information on providing administrations, systems, legal elements, etc  Figure 2: Registry-driven Process and Data Transformation  vi  Finally, operational information on the service is entered in the proper registry data containers service frequency, service or activity effort needed by the administration or the citizen business, other costs to be covered by the administration or the users of the service.  Such elements will then be very valuable in the transformation phase At the end of Phase A for a process or document the registry contains all the necessary as-is  information for that element and its context.  This information is already of high reusability for the whole public sector as, through the registry publication mechanisms, can now reach every administration or practitioner willing to find information about that either for transforming it, using it as a pattern or even using it for composing higher level services to be offered in a manual or digital manner  Phase B:Transformation   In this phase, the already modelled processes and documents, together with their corresponding descriptions and metadata, can now be shared with a variety of stakeholders within the public administration aiming at somehow modifying or transforming governmental service provision.  The usual objectives Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


of this phase are either the transformation of a manual service to digital \(achieving a level of on-line sophistication, typically from 1 to 5\he improvement of the service, by means of reducing the overall cost, reducing citizen input through enhancing interoperability within the public sector systems   In any case, the Interoperability Registry is providing patterns and guidelines for systematically transforming service and document definitions, while also giving all the necessary contextual information on organizations, legal issues or technical standards.  As shown in Figure 2, typical steps in the registry-driven transformation include   Altering a process, by applying BPR methods or heuristics e.g. for the reduction of unnecessary activities, minimization of citizen turnarounds, minimization of queues and bottlenecks   Modifying data definitions, by means of applying the UN/CEFACT CCTS methodology for creating ubiquitous descriptions of core data elements, or reusable Business Information Entities e.g. for having a unique definition of the address, across all public documents and forms   Setting Key Performance Indicators \(KPI s\ on services or public organizations, that will be used as decision making factors for later transformations and alterations The contribution of the Interoperability Registry in service and document transformation is also greatly assisted by its ability to provide quick and systematic answers to a large number of complex queries, such as   Which are the most important services regarding their frequency and overall effort and cost for the administrations or the citizens   Which are the most needed services by other services   Which are the needed documents and their XML definitions for issuing environmental permits   Which services pertaining to civil registries are already electronic at level 3 or 4 But, most importantly, a ubiquitous registry is providing all the needed information on the current status of services for all public sector organizations that as soon as it is also organizationally feasible, it allows transformation to be a coordinated task and not an isolated attempt for each organization or unit Phase C: Digital Provision  This phase of transformation relates to the reorganization of a process and to the development or modification of the necessary software and hardware components, in order to achieve digital provision of a service towards citizens or businesses Through having a formal description of all the service steps within the registry, but also already solved digitization examples of service of the same category \(e.g. environmental permits\takeholders and practitioners can now have a systematic foundation for achieving correct transformation of a service into its digital equivalent In order to support this phase, the Interoperability Registry provides access to already made XML schemas or reusable components for the creation of electronic documents, atomic Web Services, already operating within public administration, to support complex service creation and so on The resulting, newly created electronic services Web Services or XML descriptions are, apart from implementing the real service execution through governmental portals and gateways, incorporated again in the registry for further usage  4. Implementation and use An extended Interoperability Registry a s been developed and applied within the Greek eGovernment Interoperability Framework.  The architecture that implements the Interoperability Registry comprises of three layers: \(a\e Web-based and UDDI \(Universal Description, Discovery and Integration\ interfaces for various groups of users, \(b\he tools layer including ontology management, process and data modelling and c\e information repository for interconnected data elements, process models, XML schemas and Web Services descriptions.  These three layers are integrated through a relational database engine \(based on Microsoft SQL Server\d common access control and application engine integrating the tools level with the various interfaces The front-end components are as following   The Interoperability Framework Web Site found within the Greek eGIF Web S which publishes the various documents of the eGovernment Framework but also gives access to citizens and businesses for publicly available data   The Services Registry, accessible to authorized users that gives access to the Registry Tools Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


meta-data management, process and data modelling, complex queries and reports   The Registry UDDI interface, where administrations publish their Web Services or find existing, available Web Services to use through their information systems, constructing truly interoperable, one-stop services The Tools layer comprises   The process modelling facilities, based on ADONIS modelling engine    The XML Management facilities, based on ALTOVA XML Authorwa    The custom-developed ontology management data entry and reporting tools that integrate all representations and models Finally, the Data Storage layer incorporates a database for all instances of eGovernment elements Service descriptions in Web Services Definition Language \(WSDL\, process models in BPMN and various XML schemas  Table 1. Elements of the Interoperability Registry in Greece Entity Population Public Administration Organizations 1,797 Services Definitions 1,009 IT Systems Definitions 76 Service Types 11 BPMN Models for Services 321 Web Services Definitions 35 Government Category List 166 service categories Documents Definitions 1,106 Document Field Definitions 1,434 XML Schemas for Documents 169 Core Components 36 Business Information Entities 109  4.1 Population of the Registry Initial Population of the Services Registry has been greatly assisted by the existence of data in electronic form, through the Greek Ministry of Interior and was achieved through the following automated and semiautomated activities, summarised in Table 1   Automated import of 1,797 public bodies including ministries, prefectures, districts municipalities and public sector organizations   Automated import of 1,009 governmental service definitions, with core metadata descriptions and frequency indications stemming out of 3,000,000 service requests by citizens and businesses during the last year   Analytical modelling of 321 governmental services in BPMN models \(including all i2010 services and the services amounting to 95% of the yearly service requests\For more than 100 governmental processes, transformational scenaria have been created, with standardized digitization steps \(creation of web services organizational and semantic interoperability guidilines   Analytical modelling of 1,106 documents, at field level, resulting in the identification of more than 1,000 different field types   Design of more than 200 Business Information Entities, Core Components and XML schemas for governmental documents, following the UN/CEFACT CCTS methodology. This process involved transformation and unification of data elements, so that unique definitions now exist in all XML documents for 109 reusable Business Information Entities e.g. person, address, organization, enterprise etc 4.2 Application Scenaria  A version of the proposed Interoperability Registry has been applied for the last two years within the Greek Public Administration.  Experience shows that this enhanced registry can serve a variety of usage scenaria, as depicted in Figure 3.  Being available through the governmental service gateway \(the Greek HERMES portal\e Greek Interoperability Registry can support the following needs   Service discovery, acting as a unified but federated global directory for all manual or electronic services at local, regional and national level   Service execution, by providing codelists for common values, to be dynamically bound with electronic forms during service provision   Service or data transformation, including complex services composition, through the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


provision of ready-made templates, standard definitions or guidelines   Service interoperability with registries deployed in other countries with a view to facilitating the panEuropean e-Government Services \(PEGS\ign and provision, through the registry s middleware infrastructure  5. Conclusions and Further Work The presented methodological framework focused on the key challenges of unified process and data management and transformation in eGovernment, for the provision of interoperable, one-stop shop services to citizens and businesses Utilizing practices and standardisation from the eBusiness domain, the presented approach is claiming novelty in conceptualization and overall coherence in the eGovernment domain, being one of the very first approaches internationally to bring the power of BPMN and UN/CEFACT CCTS structure into a reallife application Applied at large scales within the Greek eGovernment Interoperability Framework, the approach presents a sound collection of reusable principles and tools for other Governments and practitioners of the field, as following  Figure 3: Interoperability Registry applications in eGovernment     An overall approach compatible with national eGIFs, going beyond paper-based standardisation to live systems and service document Interoperability Registries   A concise methodology to tackle the problem of creating unified, structured XML schemas and coherent service descriptions for Governmental documents and services respectively   Standardised Core Components, reusable BIEs and XSD files, reusable Service definitions and patterns, freely available within the Greek Interoperability Registry   More than 10 adopted or developed standard codelists for the most common values appearing in public forms and documents   A set of prototype tools that can be adapted to other cases and Governments needs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Problems faced during implementation and application were not trivial and have to be to be taken in mind during relevant attempts by government officials and practitioners.  Tools development or integration is usually such an issue in relevant attempts, the present one not being excluded from this de-facto rule: significant effort has to be devoted to the development of the registry application that forms the central repository for governmental services and documents as no commercial, ready to apply tools are generally available.  Furthermore integration of enterprise modelling tools and XML authoring tools with the core registry should be performed with caution and supported by high-level technical support from the vendors.  On the metadata creation field, language issues are extremely important as all the relevant descriptions should be in local language for the government officials to understand, modify and approve\d at least in English \(for easiness of communication with other governments and practitioners\e of the best ways to tackle this requirement is the creation of a glossary early in the process.  Finally, adequate time and effort should be spent for communicating and working together with government officials at various levels since resolving organizational and legal issues is a strong precondition for the actual agreement on the schemas and for the final adoption of the registry Future steps of the team in the direction of the presented approach and also within the adoption phase of the Greek eGIF, are the following   Tackling of the legal issues for the formal adoption of the new electronic documents in everyday practice, since most of the governmental services are ruled by specific laws and decrees a case which is common in many European countries.  Towards this goal, the legal elements ontology \(already defined in the Interoperability Registry  has to be fully populated with all the legal elements affecting and ruling services and then processed by mixed teams of public administration legal counsels and modelling engineers   Further applications of the transformation steps, in order to cover more services and documents, as still a fraction of the existing manual services and their documents have been modelled.  This task is specifically going to interfere with the so-called vertical standards that is document standards for Health, Banking, Telecommunications or Defence   Extension of the collaborative and participative functionalities of the Interoperability Registry, in an effort to accommodate the work of several committees in an electronic, ubiquitous platform Finally, application of the methodology has already been agreed with the Lithuanian eGovernment Interoperability Framework and discussions are being held with a number of European Union and Associated countries governmental organizations in an effort to further adapt and test the principles, the tools and the assumptions  6. References 1   Altova XML-Spy Authorware Tools, www.altova.com 2   Barone A., Di Pietro P.: Semantic of eGovernment Processes: a Formal Approach to Service Definition Arianna\ Proceedings of eGovINTEROP 2006 Bordeaux \(France 3   Cabinet Office e-Government Unit: e-Government Interoperability Framework, Version 6.1, Retrieved February 5, 2007 from http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/documents/eGIF%20v6_1\(1\.pdf 4   Cabinet Office Office of the e-Envoy, e-Government Metadata Standard, Version 3.1, Retrieved February 5 2007 from http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/documents/eGMS%20vers ion%203_1.pdf 5   Cabinet Office Office of the e-Envoy, Security - eGovernment Strategy Framework Policy and Guidelines Version 4.0, Retrieved Feb. 2007 from http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/documents/security_v4.pdf 6   Cabinet Office, UK GovTalk Schema Library http://www.govtalk.gov.uk/schemasstandards/schemal ibrary.asp, \(2007 7  CEN/ISSS eGov Share Focus Group on Discovery and Access to eGovernment Resources www.cen.eu/ISSS 8  Charalabidis, Y., Askounis D., \(2008 Interoperability Registries in eGovernment Developing a Semantically Rich Repository for Electronic Services and Documents of the new Public Administration, Hawaiian International Conference of System Sciences, HICCS 08, January 7-10, 2008 Hawaii 9  ebXML, http://www.ebxml.org 10   European Commission Enterprise Interoperability Research Roadmap, http://cordis.europa.eu/ist/ict-entnet/ei-roadmap_en.htm    Gartner Group, Preparation for Update European Interoperability Framew ork 2.0 - Final Report, 2007 http://ec.europa.eu/idabc/servlets/Doc?id=29101 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


12   Guijarro L Interoperability frameworks and enterprise architectures in e-government initiatives in Europe and the United States Government Information Quarterly 24 \(1\89-101, Elsevier Inc Jan 2007 13   HKSARG \(Hong Kong Special Administrative Region\roperability Framework, Version 5.1, July 2007 http://www.ogcio.gov.hk/eng/infra/download/s18.pdf 14   HKSARG Common Schemas, http://www.xml.gov.hk 15   IDABC, European Interoperability Framework for pan-European e-Government Services, Version 1.0 Retrieved February 5, 2007 from http://europa.eu.int/idabc/en/document/3761    ISO-3166-1 \(country code list http://www.iso.org/iso/en/prodsservices/iso3166ma/02iso-3166-code-lists/listen1.html    ISO-4217 \(currency code list http://www.iso.org/iso/en/prodsservices/popstds/currencycodeslist.html 18   Joia, L.A Information technology as an enabler for innovation in government-to-citizen processes  Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2739, pp. 430433, 2003 19   KBSt unit at the Federal Ministry of the Interior SAGA Standards and Architectures for e-Government Applications Version 3.0, Retrieved February 5, 2007 from http://www.kbst.bund.de 20   KIU, Danish e-Government Project InfoStructureBase, http://isb.oio.dk/info 21   KIU, Danish Interoperability Framework, Version 1.2.14, 2006 http://standarder.oio.dk/English/Guidelines    Lampathaki F., Charalabidis Y., Sarantis D Koussouris S., Askounis D.: E-Government Services Composition Using Multi-faceted Metadata Classification Structures in Lecture Notes on Computer Science Volume 4656 pp. 116-126 Proceedings of the 6th International  Conference EGOV 2007, Regensburg Germany, September 2007 23   Liu, Y., Zhu, L., Gorton, I Performance assessment for e-government services: An experience report  Lecture Notes in Computer Science  4608 LNCS, pp 74-89, 2007 24   NIEM, http://www.niem.gov/index.php 25   OMG Business Process Modelling Notation \(BPMN Specification, Final Adopted Specification http://www.bpmn.org/Documents/OMG%20Final%20 Adopted%20BPMN%201-0 20Spec%2006-02-1.pdf    Qi Yu, Xumin Liu, Athman Bouguettaya, Brahim Medjahed, Deploying and managing Web services issues, solutions, and  directions, The VLDB Journal Springer, 2005    RosettaNet, http://www.rosettanet.org    Schmidt, R., Lyytinen, K., Keil, M. & Cule, P. \(2001 Identifying software project risks: an international Delphi study. Journal of Management Information Systems, 17, pp. 5-36    SEMIC.EU, http://www.semic.eu 30   Tambouris E, Tarabanis K Overview of DC-based e driven eGovernment service architecture Electronic Government, Proceedings Lecture Notes In Computer Science 3591: 237-248, Springer-Verlag, 2005 31   The ADONIS Modeling Tool, BoC International http://www.boc-group.com 32   The Greek eGIF Website, available at http://www.egif.gov.gr  33   The Standard Cost Model Network http://www.administrative-burdens.com 34   UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical Specification, Part 8 of the ebXML Framework Version 2.01, Retrieved January 25, 2007 from http://www.unece.org/cefact/ebxml/CCTS_V201_Final.pdf    UNECE Units of Measure used in International Trade http://www.unece.org/cefact/recommendations/rec20/r ec20_rev3_Annex2e.pdf    United Nations Development Programme \(UNDP Government Interoperability: A Review of Government Interoperability Frameworks in Selected Countries, 2007, available online at http://www.apdip.net/projects/gif    Sourouni A.-M., Lampathaki F., Mouzakitis S Charalabidis Y., Askounis D.: Paving the way to eGovernment Transformation Interoperability Registry Infrastructure Development, in Proceedings of 7th EGOV Conference 2008, LNCS 5184, pp. 340351, 2008 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


earlier, this difference prompted the creation of two models for Round Two.  For those who said compliance was partial, all were referring to a focus on patient care and keeping units and buddies informed about medical status to the extent that some administrative steps were not always carried out in full, and information about a wounded persons condition was shared with his/her buddies.  In all cases the responses said that patient care took the precedence over administrative requirements.  Situated learning may explain why what takes place on the battlefield doesn?t fit with what was contemplated in the abstract creation of the HIPAA law.  Those in a position to do so may want to revisit the legal and policy positions with regard to HIPAA compliance with security and privacy to take these situated learning behaviors into account When asked to provide suggestions for improvements in how HIPAA requirements could be implemented the panel gave a range of administrative responses. The three most frequent responses were clear written guidance, training on the guidance and clearly marked cover sheets One of the issues mentioned by two members of the panel during the study was unauthorized requests for patient information from unit members and high ranking military members.  The study suggests that when these requests occur, the lack of written guidance puts an extra burden on the medical personnel because they don?t have clear written operating instructions to fall back on.  It is not inconceivable that low ranking military members could be approached for patient PHI by a high ranking military member or even a member of congress.  The pressure felt to release the requested information would likely be immense.  Without clear written Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 guidance to reference, the members would have to rely upon the support of their chain of command to ensure they didn?t release patient PHI to unauthorized individuals.  If they were to release the requested PHI to an unauthorized person, they would have violated HIPAA and could conceivability find themselves facing legal and financial penalties Another and more frequent source of unauthorized requests for patient PHI was reported to come from the members of the patient?s unit.  When a member of a unit is wounded in the course of a mission, it is only natural his or her buddies will likely want to know the status of their team mate.  Under current HIPAA policy, these unit members are not one of the authorized categories authorized to receive this information without the patient?s permission.  The responses from the panel suggest the morale of the remaining members of the wounded individual?s unit should be taken into account, and that the current practice, especially at the initial steps of the model, is to provide at least minimal information to the unit members.  In many cases, the bonds between unit members in combat are as strong as if they were family members. The morale of a unit could be affected by the denial of status information for the fallen team mate and could affect performance in coming missions HIPAA policy allows commanders and their designees to ask for information regarding the status of personnel under them, but is limited to PHI in the interests of fitness for duty and to perform a mission There are other individuals who may have an interest in PHI in a combat situation, other than the commander, and who may not be a ?designee? and 


commander, and who may not be a ?designee? and probably do not have access.  In addition to morale factors, the health information could, in combat, be critical to squad leaders, platoon leaders, flight leaders, or anyone else who might not fit the definition of "commander".  They would certainly be concerned about the person, but would also need to know information" for replacement of a skill set, to protect others, or to assess readiness.  They may need to know the person?s status to know if the person will return or if they will need to request a replacement. A unit missing critical skills sets could be at a disadvantage when operating in the field.  This issue could impact the mission readiness of combat units and may need to be addressed in the future. The Delphi group responses suggest that policy may need to be modified to allow for some information on patient condition to be legally given to unit members on the basis of morale concerns and unit readiness as this may impact readiness of combat units The issues raised by the Delphi panel suggest that the DoD policy formation may not have completely considered HIPAA implications in a combat zone There are provisions in the policy for fitness for duty fitness for a particular mission and casualty reporting but beyond that it seems like DoD may have extended the HIPAA policy without thinking it through.   It may be that DoD wanted to avoid any possibility of a lawsuit or other legal issue and may have extended HIPAA compliance too far down All members of the Delphi Panel chose a model of partial compliance in the combat theater of operations not one of full compliance. Current practice suggests that having freedom of motion in complying with HIPAA during combat seems to be working well according to the Delphi panel. While current interpretation of HIPAA policy does not appear to be full compliance on the battlefield itself, it does appear that full compliance kicks in soon after the wounded person is evacuated and medical treatment is begun and tends to be in place by the time the wounded soldier leaves the theater of operations. It may be worth looking at how the policy can be written to fit how things are actually done In consultation with legal authorities DoD policy and HIPAA policy could be modified to accept current partial HIPAA compliance on the battlefield, thus supporting what was reported to be happening now For example, we may want to consider unit members who may be giving medical aid at the front to be exempt from HIPAA until the wounded reaches the BAS.  Once at the BAS, unit chain of command could be authorized get status and fitness for duty information, and they would then have authority to release information to unit members.  Unit members may receive basic status information such as will they live and will the wounded members return. Once the wounded is at the CSH, status and fitness for duty information could be given to the unit commander?s and down to the squad leader level It was assumed there would be common way to handle battlefield causalities in the military medical system but the research suggests there may be differences in different areas of operations.  Future research may need to tie down for sure if that is true in other cases as well, and if so, how this will have impact on how HIPAA is implemented  7. Conclusions  There does seem to be fairly standard practice and implementation of HIPAA policy in combat areas and 


implementation of HIPAA policy in combat areas and it is one in which the strict interpretation of HIPAA does not come into play until casualties reach a certain Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 stage of the treatment/evacuation process, generally when they leave the theater of war.  Situated learning suggests that this may be based on learning that takes place in the context of actually providing battlefield medicine. The findings of the study suggest that the military may benefit from examining this learned behavior to see if it is to be preferred over current policy.  If the current practice is preferable, the DoD could, in consultation with legal guidance, adjust DoD HIPAA compliance policy at every level of the battlefield medical process to clearly define who can have access to PHI at each stage and under what conditions that access is to be granted If DoD made these changes to the current policy it could go a long way toward clarifying the requirements placed on deployed medical personnel at all levels of the treatment/evacuation model.  Clear written guidance and training would help ensure that the Privacy Rule of HIPAA was complied with and help avoid unnecessary and potentially costly violations of the law.  The more the process can be clarified for the medical personnel all along the treatment/evacuation process the better the chance of full HIPAA compliance at all steps of the process  8. Limitations of the study  An Inherent limitation of all Delphi studies is that results depend on the knowledge of a small set of identified experts.  To the extent that other experts might see things differently, the conclusions could be called into question.  The panel consisted of Air Force medical personnel, with primarily Iraq and Kuwait deployment experience with one member having Afghanistan experience.  A panel with more even distribution between the two theaters of operations might yield more refined insights into HIPAA compliance on the battlefield  9. Recommendations for Future Research  Now that a basic model of the battlefield medical treatment/evacuation process, including HIPAA compliance at each step, has been identified additional research could be done to validate the findings and look at areas beyond the scope of this study The panel consisted of Air Force medical personnel with primarily Iraq and Kuwait deployment experience. One member was knowledgeable about HIPAA issues in Afghanistan, due to past and current deployment experience.  This study could be applied using members of services other than the Air Force to explore the possibility that medical personnel for the Army, Navy and Marines view the treatment/evacuation process differently Situated learning suggests that the modifications made to the rules for undertaking battlefield medicine may be at least partially the result of the chaotic frightening environment within which such services are performed.  However, even if this is the case, this research does not clarify whether this is the best way to implement HIPAA requirements; only that it happens.  This research did not explore all the possible ramifications of working under the developed model versus a more rigidly enforced model of complying with HIPAA. Further research could explore whether 


with HIPAA. Further research could explore whether this descriptive model should also be accepted as a prescriptive model This study assumed there would be a common way to handle battlefield causalities in the medical system, but there is evidence from the research to suggest there may be differences in different areas of operations. The study identified differences between Iraq and Afghanistan, and future research should explore the significance, if any, of this finding Many individuals within the military community but outside the medical field must have access to patient PHI.  A recommendation is made to conduct research on the many non-medical personnel who may have a need to have access to HIPAA information such as unit members, squad leaders, and such.  This could help to identify how these non-medical personnel can best be served while supporting the underlying concepts of HIPAA It would also be very important to explore the legal aspects of this issue, to ensure that solutions meet legal requirements  10. References  1] Antognini, R. \(2002 Consequences: HIPAA and Liability Insurers [Electronic Version]. Defense Counsel Journal. Jul 2002. 69, \(3 306  2] Ash, L. \(2006 track troops wounded in Iraq. Courier Post Online. March 19, 2006  3] Butler, M. \(2002 U.S. Medicine Information Central  4] Clayton, Mark J. ?Delphi: A Technique to Harness Expert Opinion for Critical Decision-Making Tasks in Education?, Educational Psychology, 17:4, \(Dec 1997  5] Dalkey, N.C., Helmer, O. \(1963 Application of the Delphi Method to the Use of Experts Management Science, 9 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  6] Fowles, J., \(1978 Greenwood Press: Connecticut  7] Greentree \(2004 HIPAA Privacy Compliance. 15 Apr 04.  HQ AF/SGMA  8] Harman, L. B. \(2005 Online Journal of Issues in Nursing. 10\(2  9] Health and Human Services. \(2003 Reform: Security Standards; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 162, and 164  10] Health and Human Services. \(2007 Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 14 April 2007  11] Lave J., Wenger E. 1991. Situated Learning. Legitimate peripheral participation, Cambridge, University of Cambridge Press  12] Leahy, P. \(1997 parameters for the information age.  Privacy of Medical Records Committee on Labor and Human Resources, U.S Senate 


Senate  13] Office for Civil Rights. \(2002 Individually Identifiable Health Information; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 and 164  14] Office for Civil Rights. \(2006 Simplification [45 CFR Parts 160, 162 and 164  15] Rowe, Gene, George Wright \(1999 Technique as a forecasting tool: issues and analysis International Journal of Forecasting, 15  16] Westbrook, Lynn. ?Information Access Issues for Interdisciplinary Scholars: Results of a Delphi Study on Women?s Studies Research?, Journal of Academic Librarianship, 23:3, \(May 1997  17] Williams, S. \(2004 troops. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. October 4, 2004  18] Wolfowitz, P. \(2002 Privacy Protections for DoD Medical Records Memorandum to Committee on Armed Services. March 1 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


                                                      


                         L A                                        


          L A  Table 7. Table of Granules at left-hand-side is isomorphic to  at right- hand-side: By Theorem  3.1 one can ?nd patterns in either table as a single generalized concept  Internal points  are:[4]\(1, 1, 0, 0 tions; [5]\(0, 1, 1, 0  0, 1, 0, 1  0, 1, 1, 1  1, 1 1, 0  1, 1, 0, 1  1, 0, 1, 1 11]\(1, 1, 1, 1 form and simplify them into disjoint normal forms 1  T E N    S J    T E N    S J 2  T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A 3  T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   A 4  T W E N T Y            L A 5  T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N    T W E N T Y   A   S J    T W E N T Y   A      T H I R T Y    L A     Y 7  T E N      T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   L A    T E N   L A    S  J   A 8  T W E N T Y      T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N   T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y 9  T W E N T Y    N Y    T E N    S J    T H I R T Y    L A      T W E N T Y    L A  1 0  T W E N T Y    N Y    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A    J 1 1  T W E N T Y          T W E N T Y    L A   T H I R T Y    L A    a l l If the simpli?ed expression is a single clause \(in the original symbols non-generalized the following associations 1   T E N     S J    T E N    S J  2. SJ   J 4   L A    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y    6 Conclusions Data, patterns, method of derivations, and useful-ness are key ingredients in AM. In this paper, we formalize the current state of AM: Data are a table of symbols. The patterns are the formulas of input symbols that repeat. The method of derivations is the most conservative and reliable one, namely, mathematical deductions. The results are somewhat surprising 1. Patterns are properties of the isomorphic class, not an individual relation - This implies that the notion of patterns may not mature yet and explains why there are so many extracted association rules 2. Un-interpreted attributes \(features can be enumerated 3. Generalized associations can be found by solving integral linear inequalities. Unfortunately, the number is enormous. This signi?es the current notion of data and patterns \(implied by the algorithms 4. Real world modeling may be needed to create a much more meaningful notion of patterns. In the current state of AM, a pattern is simply a repeated data that may have no real world meaning. So we may need to introduce some semantics into the data model [12],[10],[11 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE References 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases  in Proceeding of ACM-SIGMOD international Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 


216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 2] Richard A. Brualdi, Introductory Combinatorics, Prentice Hall, 1992 3] A. Barr and E.A. Feigenbaum, The handbook of Arti?cial Intelligence, Willam Kaufmann 1981 4] Margaret H. Dunham, Data Mining Introduction and Advanced Topics Prentice Hall, 2003, ISBN 0-13088892-3 5] Fayad U. M., Piatetsky-Sjapiro, G. Smyth, P. \(1996 From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery: An overview. In Fayard, Piatetsky-Sjapiro, Smyth, and Uthurusamy eds., Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI/MIT Press, 1996 6] H Gracia-Molina, J. Ullman. &amp; J. Windin, J, Database Systems The Complete Book, Prentice Hall, 2002 7] T. T. Lee  Algebraic Theory of Relational Databases  The Bell System Technical Journal Vol 62, No 10, December, 1983, pp.3159-3204 8] T. Y. Lin  Deductive Data Mining: Mathematical Foundation of Database Mining  in: the Proceedings of 9th International Conference, RSFDGrC 2003 Chongqing, China, May 2003, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence LNAI 2639, Springer-Verlag, 403-405 9] T. Y. Lin  Attribute \(Feature  The Theory of Attributes from Data Mining Prospect  in: Proceeding of IEEE international Conference on Data Mining, Maebashi, Japan, Dec 9-12, 2002, pp. pp.282-289 10] T. Y. Lin  Data Mining and Machine Oriented Modeling: A Granular Computing Approach  Journal of Applied Intelligence, Kluwer, Vol. 13, No 2, September/October,2000, pp.113-124 11] T. Y. Lin, N. Zhong, J. Duong, S. Ohsuga  Frameworks for Mining Binary Relations in Data  In: Rough sets and Current Trends in Computing, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence 1424, A. Skoworn and L Polkowski \(eds 12] E. Louie,T. Y. Lin  Semantics Oriented Association Rules  In: 2002 World Congress of Computational Intelligence, Honolulu, Hawaii, May 12-17, 2002, 956961 \(paper # 5702 13  The Power and Limit of Neural Networks  Proceedings of the 1996 EngineeringSystems Design and Analysis Conference, Montpellier, France, July 1-4, 1996 Vol. 7, 49-53 14] Morel, Jean-Michel and Sergio Solimini, Variational methods in image segmentation : with seven image processing experiments Boston : Birkhuser, 1995 15] H. Liu and H. Motoda  Feature Transformation and Subset Selection  IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol. 13 No. 2, March/April, pp.26-28 \(1998 16] Z. Pawlak, Rough sets. Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





