html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Asteroid Surface Probes: A Low-Cost Approach for the In Situ Exploration of Small Solar System Objects Christopher M. Cottingham \(ccotting@ball.com  W. Epstein, David M Waller Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp P.O. Box 1062 Boulder, CO 80302-1062 303  Daniel J. Scheeres Department of Aerospace Engineering Engineering Center University of Colorado Boulder, CO 80309-0429  Abstract  In-situ characterization of the surface properties of small solar system objects, such as asteroids and comets is important to understanding their properties and evolution Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp  s asteroid surface probes \(ASP scientific data that cannot be obtained from orbiting craft. A simple architecture with a small form factor, taking advantage of miniaturized, shock-resistant electronics and sensors, allows these probes to accommodate a variety of scientific instrumentation in softball to basketball-sized packages.  The small size enables the probes to be deployed as additional payloads on host spacecraft, rather than requiring dedicated missions. This paper discusses the system concept and architecture of Ball  s ASPs, benefits of their size and simplicity, unique scientific data available from in-situ measurements, and the flexibility of multiple configuration/instrumentation options. We also discuss ongoing development work and near-term plans to increase the TRL level of many of the associated technologies.1 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.................................................................1 2. SCIENCE RATIONALE................................................2 3. SURFACE PROBE DESIGN CONCEPT.....................3 4. NEAR-TERM PLANS FOR DEVELOPMENT...........7 5. CONCLUSIONS .............................................................8 REFERENCES ...................................................................9 BIOGRAPHY....................................................................10 1. INTRODUCTION Interest in exploration of small bodies \(particularly asteroids and comets are turning out to be more varied then recently thought and are proving to be sources of information regarding the early composition of our solar system. The line between asteroids and comets has recently become blurred as observational astronomy results point to varied properties across newly 1 1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1680, Version 5, Updated Jan 9, 2009 discovered objects, missions visit these bodies, and new objects are identified Multiple recent missions have greatly increased our understanding of the nature and diversity of asteroids. These missions have included Galileo which flew by asteroids Gaspra and Ida, the NEAR rendezvous mission to 433 Eros the Deep Space 1 flyby of Braille in 1998, the Hayabusa Muses-C  s flyby of 2867 Steins last year \(2008 21 Lutetia in 2010, and Dawn  s planned rendezvous  with Ceres \(2011 2015 these missions  NEAR [1,2] and Hayabusa [3,4  have ventured to the point of touching the surface, and then only minimally and without detailed in-situ surface characterization capabilities. Based on observations derived from these two missions it is clear that the surface 


from these two missions it is clear that the surface environment on asteroids is complex, allowing the transport of material to occur [5,6] and yielding an elevated degree of surface rigidity in the gravel-rich regions of Itokawa, where a coefficient of restitution of 0.84 was estimated between the spacecraft and surface [7].  These missions have led to a host of new-found questions about the structure and composition of near earth asteroids which can only be addressed by deliberately extending the mission design to include focused, landed instrumentation as part of a rendezvous mission Cometary science has also benefited from multiple missions. These missions started with NASA  s ISEE-3/ICE spacecraft passing through the tail of Giacobini-Zinner in 1985. In 1986, comet Halley was visited by five separate spacecraft; Sakigake, Suisei, VEGA 1, VEGA 2, and Giotto. Giotto then visited Grigg Skjellerup in 1989. Deep Space 1 conducted a flyby of Comet Borrelly in 2001 Stardust conducted a flyby of Wild2 in early 2004 while collecting coma samples and taking pictures. The samples were returned to earth in 2006. The two-spacecraft Deep Impact \(DI the Impactor spacecraft collided with Tempel 1 while the Flyby spacecraft photographed the impact. The DI Flyby 2 spacecraft is now on its way to a flyby of 103P/Hartley 2 in late 2010 as part of the EPOXI Mission. The Stardust spacecraft is on its way to a flyby of Tempel 1 in early 2011. Finally, the Rosetta spacecraft is flying to a planned 2014 rendezvous with comet Churyumov-Gerasimenko to orbit the comet for several years and drop a probe to the surface after mapping it. Of these missions, so far three have directly touched cometary material; ISEE-3/ICE [8 and Stardust [9] directly sampled coma materials and DI probed subsurface composition [10-13]. Rosetta will deploy a surface lab to further investigate the physical properties of a comet  s surface and subsurface while examining the chemical, mineralogical and isotropic composition [14,15 Further landed assets on future missions will enhance the scientific return of these investigations Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp. \(Ball developing concepts for small-body surface probes to enable low-cost, focused, landed science investigations [1620]. Ball  s Asteroid Surface Probe \(ASP described in this paper and is a simple, robust tool to measure and probe surface and subsurface composition surface material transport and the bulk properties of small bodies in our solar system. We describe the science rationale, ASP system concept and architecture, potential mission applications and near-term development plans 2. SCIENCE RATIONALE The structure and porosity of the immediate surface of small bodies, and the physical processes that control these factors are key areas that in-situ measurements can address.  When a probe is deployed and impacts a small body  s surface, the deceleration of the initial and subsequent impacts as the probe settles provides the coefficient of restitution of the immediate surface, or the elasticity of impact.  This can serve as an important proxy for natural, low-velocity impacts between small bodies, or the re-impact of ejecta from larger impact events. The porosity and granularity of the immediate surface may be important factors in dissipating energy from impacts that would be far more disruptive if the media were monolithic.  This may help explain how collisions between bodies can lead to net growth, rather than net loss of mass, providing insight into the accretion process of planetary formation [21].  In addition, we do not know the relative importance of nongravitational forces, such as electrostatic forces, in controlling the distribution and adhesion of surface material These can only be measured by immersion into the surface 


These can only be measured by immersion into the surface environment where these fields may dominate.  Imaging of the particle size distribution down to sub-mm scales provides a useful inference on the importance of electrostatic forces in shaping the surface character; such high resolution imaging is far easier to achieve from a landed platform than from a spacecraft orbiting or flying past the object Surface probes can also provide an effective vehicle for the delivery of an explosive charge to the surface of an asteroid or comet. A calibrated explosion could prove extremely valuable for understanding how small bodies respond to impacts.  The size of the crater resulting from a surface explosion of known energy provides direct insight into the strength of the near surface of the asteroid or comet Loosely bound, porous material should rapidly dissipate the shock from the explosion resulting in a small crater, while a competent substrate \(like bedrock on earth explosive energy to propagate through the medium with minimal attenuation, potentially resulting in a larger crater The interior structure of the body can be inferred by monitoring how surface and body waves travel through and over the object through the use of previously landed semically-sensitive probes. The motion of loosely-bound surface particles should serve as an excellent marker to observe the propagation of such waves.  Monitoring the ejecta from an active experiment \(a calibrated explosion an orbiting spacecraft and cameras on other surface probes provides additional information on the body  s composition  how much of the ejecta is lost from the system completely?  How is the ejecta that reimpacts the surface distributed in a microgravity environment?  Such observations would help answer questions on the processes that control the appearance of asteroid surfaces, such as the lack of small craters observed on many such bodies [22 Further, in-situ measurements are important in understanding the composition of small bodies.  To date composition has been inferred from either infrared \(IR reflectance spectra or x-ray fluorescence \(XRF interrogating only the immediate surface.  Contact measurements enabled by a surface probe allow greater sensitivity in measurements by getting closer to the excitation source in the case of active XRF measurements as well as longer integration times in the case of IR spectra This increased sensitivity can greatly expand our understanding of the diversity of composition at small spatial scales.  These measurements can provide important  ground truth  for the composition of asteroids, which is currently based on comparing earth-based observation of spectral characteristics to meteoritic samples.  Exposure of subsurface layers by an explosive charge or other means also enables a comparison of the immediate surface with the subsurface.  Measuring the compositional variability with depth is important in understanding the formation and evolution of small bodies, and the relative importance of processes such as space weathering in affecting surface spectra In addition, effective mitigation planning for potentially hazardous objects \(possible earth impactors knowledge of body structural properties very similar to what is needed from a purely scientific standpoint [23 One important parameter is the porosity in the near-surface regolith, since many mitigation strategies rely on the effective transfer of energy through the surface to the rest of 3 the body.  For example, we need to be able to determine whether mitigation via a kinetic impactor would be elastic or inelastic, i.e., how much of the kinetic energy goes into regolith compaction To summarize, the properties that are needed for mitigation planning are questions of fundamental scientific importance 


planning are questions of fundamental scientific importance that will also help us understand how asteroids form and evolve.  Since asteroids and comets are likely more pristine forms of the material that formed the earth and other terrestrial planets, this in turn helps us understand the formation and evolution of our own world 3. SURFACE PROBE DESIGN CONCEPT Ball is developing an ASP that can help answer many of the underlying science questions in a simple, cost-effective manner. ASPs can be deployed as augmentations to a larger mission or possibly used as the prime mission science return vehicle. The probes are envisioned to be low maintenance during all phases of host mission development and implementation. Straightforward, standardized mechanical electrical, command, and telemetry interfaces are baselined so integration and test with the host spacecraft is simple with minimal schedule impacts. During cruise phase the probes are self contained and require minimal support from the host spacecraft \(e.g.: structural accommodation and thermal conditioning autonomous with a pre-programmed routine based on the science object of interest. The probes send back telemetry to earth via the host spacecraft.  Minimal to no active commanding is envisioned for the probes Concept of Operations Ball  s ASPs are designed to take advantage of residual mass and volume on a host spacecraft which will transport the probes in a power-off state to the target asteroid \(or other small candidate body Deployment will occur from either individual bays or a probe cannon depending on how the probes are packaged for transport.  The probes are turned on and begin collecting and returning data upon deployment.  Deployment of the probes is dependant on the host spacecraft being in orbit around the target body- therefore the probes are applicable only to rendezvous missions and do not support flyby missions ASPs are designed to sustain a moderate impact and therefore do not require any control during decent or cushioning on landing.  However, to remain within their operational limits, they are specifically targeted at bodies where their impact velocity would be on the order of 0.1 m/s.  A preliminary analysis of the impact conditions concluded that the mechanical design meets the shock requirement for various soil conditions at this impact velocity  see Figure 1.  Depending on the asteroid  s density and rotational period, we estimate that this sizes the targets for ASPs at hundreds of meters in diameter or smaller when deploying from a synchronous altitude Exploration of larger bodies would require higher shock tolerance, improved knowledge of the target  s surface properties, special deployment procedures \(such as deployment from a low altitude and landing control  Figure 1  Impact velocity versus shock for various surface materials 4 To roughly assess the shock impact, the problem was reduced to a simple one degree of freedom energy equation with elastic surface deformation. The values for k shown in Figure 1 reflect the constants used for the respective surface to calculate the elastic potential energy.  Plastic deformations and complex soil properties make modeling difficult and explain why so much literature is based on testing and empirical results.  Probe topology also plays an important part in accelerometer readings and further complicates the problem, i.e. readings will be different if a corner of the probe digs in to the surface versus a flat-face impact.  Thus Ball plans to perform drop testing of an engineering development unit to begin characterizing the impact using an onboard accelerometer with various probe 


impact using an onboard accelerometer with various probe orientations and simulated surface conditions The probes are nominally designed to be deployed at sunrise and acquire data throughout the day and during the transition to night.  After sundown, the basic ASP will either run out of battery power or freeze while the more advanced ASPs will enter a low-power mode for the night With the host spacecraft in a synchronous orbit roughly above the location of the probes, they are able to continuously transmit data back without the need to store large amounts of data until the spacecraft comes into range  this also eliminates a need to have two-way communication on the more basic probes as they can operate autonomously once deployed.  Finally, the small size of the target bodies results in a synchronous orbit altitude that is typically measured only in kilometers unless the body has an unusually long rotational period [24].  This close proximity of the probes to the host spacecraft results in low power requirements for the communications link Thermal, Power, &amp; Radiation In their simplest design, ASPs use only a primary battery for power and have very basic thermal and radiation control.  They are able to accomplish this as they are powered off and reliant on the host spacecraft to provide much of their radiation shielding and thermal control while in route to their target.  Upon deployment from the host spacecraft, they are turned on and depend on their own systems to protect them from the local environment however, the environmental requirements during their short mission life are not too severe The period of rotation for most asteroids with a diameter greater than 150 m is from 2  30 hours [24].  ASPs are designed to operate while in the sun and during the brief transition period to shade. This results in a nominal ASP mission life of between 1 and 15 hours which can be accomplished with a primary battery and no recharging system.  Since ASPs will be primarily operating in the sun heaters are not required. They will continue to acquire data for as long as possible in the shadow to measure this transitional period, but they are not designed to survive more than a fraction of an hour in this environment.  While in the sun, the probes will employ passive controls such as reflective coatings to keep them cool as well as using phase change materials to both assist in stabilizing their Figure 2  Four-inch cube probe with scalable three-piece configuration and basic payload 5 temperature while in the sun, and stretch their lifespan further into the period of shadow More advanced probes will incorporate a more complex power system, thermal system and orientation/self-righting capabilities to keep them operational for multiple rotations of the asteroid being examined. Body mounted solar panels will allow recharging of the batteries to power a set of heaters during the period of shadow as well as a set of instruments in a low-power mode until returning to the sun Instrumentation Options &amp; Capabilities Ball's ASPs are flexible in handling various suites of instrumentation and their specific capabilities are based on the specific science objectives of the mission.  The baseline design is for a probe where orientation on the surface does not matter as shown in Figure 2.  This is accomplished through omni-directional antennas and instrumentation that is either orientation-independent or through multiple instruments.  The baseline probes lack the capability to move once on the surface and have limited failure redundancy.  Redundancy and the investigation of multiple surface sites with this basic design is accomplished through deployment of multiple probes.  The range of instruments that these probes can support, depending on the mission objectives, include: shock accelerometers to examine the surface properties at impact; cameras in multiple spectral 


ranges; electric field sensors to measure the effects of the local electric fields; temperature sensors; Faraday cups and/or Langmuir probes As the probes increase in complexity, they will incorporate self-righting capabilities eliminating the need to duplicate instruments to account for a lack of orientation knowledge This also provides the ability to carry instruments that depend on knowing the orientation relative to the surface such as x-ray spectrometers to examine the surface composition, seismic instrumentation to examine the interior structure of the asteroids through a network of probes with geophones or seismic accelerometers, and explosive charges to support both the seismic measurements and other science objectives as discussed above Another capability that will be incorporated in more advanced versions is mobility  allowing the probes to take measurements from multiple locations on the asteroid  s surface.  This reduces the number of probes required to get a representative sampling of the asteroid surface and better utilizes the probes by allowing them to continue to provide useful data after their science objectives in one location have been met The microgravity environment of the asteroids means that only very small force is necessary to propel the probes to other locations.  This results in a wide trade space for the method of generating this force and creating the desired motion.  Options being considered in the mobility trade include shifting the center of mass, mechanical flippers shape-memory materials, compressed gasses, and even vibration  see Figure 3.  Methods to incorporate the  Figure 3  Probe mobility options 6 propulsion system directly into the probe structure as a way of reducing weight and complexity while conserving space are being investigated as well as discussed later and illustrated in Figure 6 Mechanical Design and Packaging The ASP mechanical design is a highly compact system that is robust to the environment, minimizes part count, and simplifies integration.  The overall configuration \(as shown in Figure 2 proven electronics assemblies housed in a rugged titanium structure.  The initial ASP configuration starts with the most constraining case from the standpoint of form factor requirements and then scales up to larger probes and missions with enhanced science capabilities Ball  s ASP concepts are split into two major designs softball-sized, single-objective missions and basketballsized enhanced missions.  Anticipating the critical need for space on upcoming missions of opportunity, the smaller probe concept uses a four inch cube volume as the constraining case.  The small size, low part count and symmetry for a simplified concept of operations increases the number of potential candidate missions as well as enhancing opportunities for multi-probe missions The three-piece titanium structure shown in Figure 2 provides ample packaging of the electronics, payloads, and supporting thermal and power systems.  It also provides a direct structural path to the mechanical interface of the carrying spacecraft and scalability is inherent with the threepiece structure depending on the payload\(s specific mission objectives.  Electrical components are arranged on the middle brick for optimum thermal performance and minimal volume.  This allows access to all six sides of the probe for instrumentation on the two end bricks.  The configuration also allows easy assembly of internal harnessing and hookup to external connectors Figures 4 and 5 show scaled-up seven inch systems with increased payload capacity.  The spherical configuration is shown as an option to eliminate/minimize the impact 


shown as an option to eliminate/minimize the impact topology variable as the orientation of a cube at impact will affect the accelerometer data and assist in the self-righting capabilities of the probe in Figure 4. While the spherical form factor helps interpreting the impact data, it complicates the arrangement of instruments, reduces the total available volume, is more difficult to fabricate, and may present problems for probe settling in the microgravity environment.  For these reasons, the cube topology has been chosen for the engineering development unit   Figure 4  Self-righting probe with explosive charge 7  Figure 5  Spherical probe with an orientation-independent payload 4. NEAR-TERM PLANS FOR DEVELOPMENT Ball is currently working on increasing the technology readiness level \(TRL associated with the probes through a series of independent research and development \(IR&amp;D IR&amp;D efforts, the TRL will specifically be increased on the small avionics package, the multifunctional structures concepts, and the extreme environment electronics which have high shock and thermal tolerances Ball  s small multifunctional structures IR&amp;D is investigating methods to combine subsystems and minimize parts count.  An integrated propulsion system/structure has been rapid prototyped out of titanium  See Figure 6.  This technology enables high strength  impossible to machine   parts to be formed quickly and cheaply.  Any part can be fabricated that can be drawn in CAD with the only current limit being build size. Material properties are comparable with Ti 6Al-4V plate The probe avionics IR&amp;D effort is aimed at creating a small, FPGA-based avionics suite that can be adapted to many small probe or instrument suite concepts.  The avionics are designed to utilize standard interfaces for instrument control and data collection, provide the processing capabilities required for a wide array of science objectives, and provide the on-board memory required for the mission.  The avionics currently do not include power or communications capabilities, but will incorporate this in later versions.  Basic power and communications functionality is being implemented separately for the current version of the ASPs until these capabilities are integrated into the avionics capabilities The extreme environment electronics effort will provide the ability to design and analyze electronics that withstand environments which present extreme temperatures, high radiation, and/or significant vibration and shock requirements.  These capabilities will not be completed in time to be incorporated into the design of the initial version of the asteroid surface probes, but will be available for the analysis and testing of the probe and the results can then be incorporation into future design iterations These technologies have been integrated together with a basic suite of instruments and a communications link into an engineering development unit \(EDU probe  see Figure 7.  The EDU, completed in 2008 enables initial testing to take place and shows the feasibility of integrating all of the technologies and systems together into an operational unit with a small form factor.  The EDU probe incorporates three cameras on multiple probe faces, a tri-axial accelerometer, multiple temperature sensors and 8   Figure 6 - Multifunctional titanium structure using rapid prototype process battery current and voltage telemetry.  It also incorporates a 


battery current and voltage telemetry.  It also incorporates a wireless UHF data link and an avionics board with standard interfaces to test different sensors Plans for 2009 Drop tests are planned for early 2009 to begin characterizing the accelerometer data with probe topology and soil conditions.  Plans call for testing on sand and ice at various velocities and impact orientations.  Final recommendations for probe layout and accelerometer selection will be made at this point The goal of the 2008 probe EDU was to show the ability to integrate the technologies of many related IR&amp;D efforts into a functional, small form factor, testable unit.  There are other technologies and concepts however, that are less advanced than those that came out of the recent IR&amp;D efforts.  Maturation of the probe system in 2009 is focused on these specific areas including refining the current communications system to operate at higher data rates and efficiently integrate multiple sources of scientific data into a single, serialized signal while maintaining the small form factor.  The system to deploy the probes from the host spacecraft will be further developed from its current conceptual state, both for the probe cannon option as well as the deployment of probes from individual bays.  The power and thermal systems will be expanded to support the more complex probes with extended mission lives.  Finally, the trade study on probe mobility alternatives will be matured and the method for self-righting/orienting capabilities will be defined The result will be a second-generation EDU with a set of capabilities very closely matching the flight probes.  This version will provide a clear definition of what specific probe capabilities are required to meet a specific science mission and what the interfaces are to particular science payloads.  Configuration and production of ASPs for specific missions will then be deliverable in a relatively short time frame with a high degree of confidence as to the cost and schedule requirements 5. CONCLUSIONS Development of low-mass, low-power, low-cost probes can enhance the return for many small-body rendezvous missions.  Distributed networks of sensors that are linked to a host vehicle can provide enhancements to the primary mission without substantial impact to the host spacecraft Optimizing mechanical and electrical components for this approach while providing modular building blocks will provide a flexible ASP architecture.  Adding scalable power systems, scalable mobility options, and scalable sensor options will provide for a tailored network of sensors at a modest cost.  Highly complex autonomous landers or rovers are substantial investments. Deployment of multiple low cost ASPs in a microgravity environment provides an alternative approach for many science missions ASPs take advantage of the microgravity environment of small bodies to provide a low-cost method of in-situ exploration.  Ball ASPs provide a vehicle to gather specific scientific data that cannot be obtained from an orbiting craft and do so in a manner that is significantly less expensive and 9  Figure 7  2008 EDU demonstration unit less complex than either a robotic lander or sample return mission.  The small size \(softball to basketball-sized package payloads on host spacecraft, rather than requiring a dedicated mission The microgravity environment of small bodies, such as asteroids or comets, allows the probes to be deployed from an orbiting spacecraft and dropped ballistically to the surface. No systems are needed to control decent or cushion 


surface. No systems are needed to control decent or cushion the impact.  A suite of instruments gathers data on the decent and on the surface, transmitting this data back to the orbiting spacecraft.  The small size, moderate rotational periods, and lack of an atmosphere on asteroids allow for a synchronous orbit of a few hundred meters simplifying the communication system by allowing for continuous data transmission and low power requirements Basic versions of Ball  s ASPs have a primary battery for power and simple thermal control via phase change materials.  They are intended to have a lifespan sufficient to allow them to return data while in the sun and during the transition to shadow as the object rotates  on the order of 10 hours total.  Probe instrumentation is arranged such that the orientation of the probe on the surface does not matter Probes can be deployed in groups to gather data from multiple locations on the small body surface. More complex probes can incorporate self-righting capabilities and/or methods of locomotion and more complex thermal and power systems An operational engineering development unit was completed in late 2008 with testing to take place in early 2009.  This version of the probe demonstrates the integration of multiple IR&amp;D efforts into a small, lowpower package as well as supporting testing and further development REFERENCES 1] Dunham, D. W., et al  Implementation of the first asteroid landing  Icarus, 159, No. 2, pp. 433-438, Oct 2002 2] Prockter, L., et al  The NEAR Shoemaker mission to asteroid 433 Eros  Acta Astronautica, 51, No. 1-9, pp 491-500, 2002 3] Kawaguchi, J., et al  The MUSES-C mission for the sample and return--its technology development status and readiness  Acta Astronautica, 52, No. 2-6, pp. 117123, 2003 4] Kawaguchi, J., et al  MUSES-C, Its launch and early orbit operations  Acta Astronautica, 59, No. 8-11, pp 669-678, Dec. 2006 5] Robinson et al., Nature 413, 396, 2001 6] Miyamoto et al. Science 316, 1011, 2007 7] Yano et al  Touchdown of the Hayabusa spacecraft at the Muses Sea on Itokawa  Science 312, No. 5578, pp 1350-1353, June 2006 8] Farquhar, R.W., et.al  The flight of ISEE-3/ICE Origins, mission history and a legacy  Journal of the Astronautical Sciences, Vol. 49, No. 1, pp. 23-73, 2001 ISSN 0021-9142 10 9] Baker, J. \(Special Issue Introduction  Look into the Seeds of Time  Science, Vol.314, No. 5806, p 1707, 15 December 2006 10] A  Hearn, M., Combi, M. R.; editors  Deep Impact at Comet Tempel 1  Icarus, Vol 191, Number 2S, 2007 11] Russell, C. T, editor  Deep Impact Mission: Looking Beneath the Surface of a Cometary Nucleus  Springer Netherlands, 2005. \(ISBN 978-1-4020-3599-9 12] T. Bank, W. Frazier, W. Blume, D. Kubitschek, G Null, N. Mastrodemos, and S Synnott  Deep Impact: 10 Gigajoules Can make Quite an Impression  Paper AAS 01-022, 24th AAS Guidance and Control Conference Breckenridge, CO, USA, 31 Jan - 4 Feb 2001 13] M. A  hearn, A. Delamere, and W. Frazier  The Deep Impact Mission: Opening a New Chapter in Cometary Science  Paper IAA-00-IAA.11.2.04, 51st International Astronautical Congress, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2-6 Oct 2000 14] S. Ulameca, S. Espinasseb, B. Feuerbachera, M Hilchenbachc, D. Mourad, H. Rosenbauerc, H 


Hilchenbachc, D. Mourad, H. Rosenbauerc, H Scheuerlea, R.Willneckera, "Rosetta Lander  Philae Implications of an alternative mission,". Acta Astronautica 58: pp. 435  441, 2006 15] J. Biele, "The Experiments Onboard the ROSETTA Lander," Journal Earth, Moon, and Planets, 90 \(1-4 445  458, 2002 16] D. J. Scheeres, E. I. Asphaug, J. Colwell, R. Dissly, P E. Geissler, L. A. McFadden, V. Petr, R. Reinert, H Yano  Asteroid Surface Science with Pods  Abstract 1444, 34th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference 2003 17] R. W. Dissly, D. Ebbets, R. Reinert, and C. Grund  Surface Probes for the In-Situ Characterization of Small Bodies  Abstract #3035, Workshop on Spacecraft Reconnaissance of Asteroid and Comet Interiors \(2006 18] D. Ebbets, R. Dissly, R. Reinert  Small Landing Probes for In-situ Characterization of Asteroids and Comets  209th Meeting of the American Astronomical Society, Seattle, WA \(2007 19] D. Ebbets, R. Reinert, R. Dissly  Small Landing Probes for In-Situ Characterization of Asteroids and Comets  Abstract #2104, 38th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference \(2007 20] R Dissly and R Reinert  Small Surface Probes for the In-Situ Characterization of Asteroids and Comets  7th IAA International Conference on Low-Cost Planetary Missions, Pasadena, CA \(2007 21] Richardson D. C., Leinhardt Z. M., Melosh H. J., Bottke Jr. W. F., and Asphaug E. \(2002 Aggregates: Evidence and Evolution. In Asteroids III \(W F. Bottke Jr. et al., eds Tucson 22] Chapman C. R. \(2002 Galileo and NEAR Shoemaker. In Asteroids III \(W. F Bottke Jr. et al., eds Tucson 23] Benz W. and Asphaug E. \(1999 Disruptions Revisited. Icarus, 142, 5-20 24] Pravec P., Harris A. W., and Michalowski T. \(2002 Asteroid Rotations. In Asteroids III \(W. F. Bottke Jr. et al., eds BIOGRAPHY Chris Cottingham is a systems engineer at Ball Aerospace &amp Technologies Corp.  He is currently providing systems engineering / project management support to programs in the commercial and defense business units and well as the new business area.  He is the intern / co-op coordinator for systems engineering and has acted as a mentor for past interns.  He has previously worked on the implementation and optimization of many of Ball  s execution tools and processes.  He received his B.S.E. in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Notre Dame William Deininger is a staff consultant in systems engineering at Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp.  He was the functional manager for the Mission Systems Engineering group and prior to that, the Kepler Flight Segment Manager.  In addition to his role on Kepler, he was the Chief Systems Engineer on the Mars Micromissions and then StarLight Projects. He supports many proposals for NASA AOs including New Frontiers 


many proposals for NASA AOs including New Frontiers Discovery, MIDEX and SMEX opportunities, and focused mission RFPs such as Micromissions, ST3, LightSAR, ST5 TPF, and Constellation X. Bill has also supported various defense new business and proposal work. Prior to Ball Aerospace, Bill worked at FIATAVIO-BPD in Italy for 9 years and as a Member of the Technical Staff at JPL for 8 years. Bill is a member of the IEEE and an Associate 11 Fellow of the AIAA. He received his Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from the Universit  degli Studi di Pisa in Italy his M.S. in Plasma Physics from Colorado State University and his B.S. degree in Physics from the State University of New York at Cortland Richard Dissly is a Staff Scientist at Ball Aerospace, primarily supporting in situ instrument development and mission opportunities in planetary sciences He has pursued research in both planetary and Earth sciences for the past 12 years. Previously Dr Dissly spent five years at NOAA where he developed instrumentation for accurate in-situ measurements of tropospheric pollutants.  Dr. Dissly holds a doctorate in planetary sciences from Caltech Kenny Epstein has more than 28 years of experience in the design of aerospace vehicles. He is currently the Spacecraft Design Manager at Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp. His primary duties are to develop and manage new spacecraft for wide variety of missions and customers.  Prior to Ball, he was employed at Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space leading teams during conceptual development, proposal development, and new product development on a wide variety of spacecraft. Prior to Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space he was employed at Lockheed Martin Skunk Works  as a lead configuration designer on several aircraft programs.  He received his B.S in Civil Engineering from the University of Colorado Dan Scheeres is the A. Richard Seebass Endowed Chair Professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder Prior to this, he held positions at the University of Michigan \(19992007 1997  1999 Navigation Systems Section at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(1992  1997 1992 M.S.E. \(1988 1987 Engineering from the University of Michigan, and holds a B.S. in Letters and Engineering from Calvin College \(1985 He is a Fellow of the American Astronautical Society, an Associate Fellow of the AIAA, and a member of the American Astronomical Society and its Divisions of Planetary Science and Dynamical Astronomy, and the International Astronomical Union. He is currently serving as an Associate Editor for the journals Celestial Mechanics amp; Dynamical Astronomy, the Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics, the Journal of the Astronautical Sciences and the Journal of Nonlinear Science Dave Waller is a mechanical engineer within the spacecraft design group at Ball Aerospace &amp 


Technologies Corp.  He is involved in all aspects of satellite design including mechanical design structural analysis, and systems engineering for both civil and defense applications.  He provides continuous support for new business proposals and is a mentor for company interns as well as senior design projects at the University of Colorado Boulder.  He has a B.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from Arizona State University and M.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Colorado Boulder pre></body></html 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Michael A. Mischna is an atmospheric scientist with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory focusing on the atmospheres and climates of terrestrial planets. He was the EDL Atmosphere Team Lead for the Mars Phoenix Mission. His research interests include longterm evolution of the martian climate, the role of greenhouse gases in providing habitable environments and surfaceatmosphere interactions. Dr. Mischna has a B.S. in atmospheric science from Cornell University, an M.S. in meteorology from the Pennsylvania State University and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Geophysics and Space Physics from the University of California, Los Angeles  Seungwon Lee is a member of the technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research interests include genetic algorithms, lowthrust trajectory design nanoelectronics, quantum computation, parallel cluster computation and advanced scientific software modernization techniques. Dr. Lee received her Ph.D. in Physics from the Ohio State University in 2002 Her work is documented in numerous journals and conference proceedings  Mark Allen is supervisor of the Earth and Planetary Atmospheres Group and Principal Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His research interests include remote detection of trace atmospheric species, and the role of atmospheric chemistry on the atmospheres of Mars, Venus and Titan. He was the PI of the MARVEL Mars Scout proposal, and is a co-investigator on the MIRO microwave instrument on the Rosetta Orbiter. Dr Allen has a B.A. from Columbia University and received a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the California Institute of Technology in 1976     Richard J. Terrile created and leads the Evolutionary Computation Group at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His group has developed genetic algorithmbased tools to improve on human design of space systems and has demonstrated that computer aided design tools can also be used for automated innovation and design of complex systems. He is an astronomer, the Mars Sample Return Study Scientist, the JIMO Deputy Project Scientist and the co-discoverer of the Beta Pictoris circumstellar disk. Dr. Terrile has B.S. degrees in Physics and Astronomy from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Planetary Science from the California Institute of Technology in 1978 
 


  14  
 


Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr Battery Recharge Energy Losses 93 W-hr Shunt Energy Losses 20% Battery W-hr 187 W-hr Remaining Electrical Energy 60017 W-hr Power Conversion Losses 80% Efficiency 12003 W-hr Harness Losses \(4 Available Diurnal Load Energy \(CBE Average Load Energy Supported 67.9 W Array Area 0.20 m2 12 specifically the seismometer and magnetometer continuously while other instruments such as the heat flow probes may operate intermittently. The retroreflector does not require any thermal control resources. Telecom between the Earth and the hub or from the remote units to the hub would be during the lunar day only  Description of the Design  A thermal blanket \(MLI Silver-Teflon would be used to moderate the temperature variation of the surface. The MLI and the lunar material thermal conduction properties could be used to insulate the different ALGEP elements from the external environment  The Mars Exploration Rover thermal switch and a thermal radiator with thermal louvers would be used to reject the internally generated thermal energy. The MER Thermal Switch has the ability to transfer up to 11 W. For the hub three or four switches may be necessary, depending on the RF power output  Potentially a small electric heater/thermostat system may be needed \(on the order of 10% of the dissipated electrical energy example, the seismometer, which dissipates 1.5 W, may need a 0.15 W heater. A detailed thermal analysis would be necessary to further assess this need  The ALGEP hardware location would be dictated by the science requirements. Each ALGEP element could be either positioned on the surface or buried.  An example of a buried element would be the seismometer, while the hub could be surface mounted. In either case a surface blanket would be required. The surface blanket would minimize the lunar temperature variation, from a range of -173 to ~127  C to a range under the blanked between approximately -73 to 27  C. Initial calculations indicate that the blanket extending about 0.5 m beyond the edge of the instrument or hub would provide the temperature control of the lunar surface required to minimize the temperature variation. For the lunar night, a small electric heater may be needed to keep the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits  For polar region operation it is assumed that the ALGEP could operate at all times as the solar arrays would always have incident solar energy and could provide electrical power for operations.  Thus with electrical power for the instruments and hub, the thermal radiator and louvers could maintain the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits. Initial calculations indicate that the current conceptual thermal control design does not require electric heaters for this location  Design Rationale  The design uses MLI, thermal conduction control, electric heaters, thermal radiators thermal louvers, and a deployed surface blanket to provide thermal control to maintain the remote units and hub within specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would 


specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would minimize the temperature variation of the surface, and electric heaters would provide makeup thermal energy  Risk  The thermal subsystem design is a low to moderate risk element, as the hardware used has extensive flight experience. Although this system would be on the surface of the Moon, the environment would be space-like, with the  Figure 6  ALGEP avionics block diagram showing the power and command and data handing  interface. This is a low-power design to enable data collection during lunar night at the remote units. The hub  contains the same avionics package but does not interface with an instrument  13 exception of the infrared heating of the lunar surface therefore the space qualified thermal control hardware could provide thermal control for this mission  Command and Data Handling Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP controller is designed to meet the six year mission lifetime requirement stemming from the science objectives flowing down to the mission requirements and has a technology cutoff of 2016 \(assumes a 2020 launch interface to the science instrument and the UHF radio.  The controller for the hub interfaces to the UHF and S-band radios. Each type of controller would be single string  Design Assumptions  All selected electronic parts for the controller have a path to flight hardware with a technology cutoff of 2016. There would be one ALGEP hub that has a bi-directional S-band link to Earth and a UHF receiver link to the remote instrument units. There would be four ALGEP remote units that have UHF transmitters to link to the ALGEP hub. The controllers would have an operating temperature range: -20  C to 35  C. The total ionizing dose of radiation would be 2 krads for the mission  Description of the Design  Both controller designs would incorporate low-powered Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs devices and I/O drivers.  Portions of the existing MultiMission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP Engineering Unit \(REU IP provide the mission clock and alarm clock logic.  Both the hub and remote unit controllers would capture engineering data regarding temperatures, currents and voltages. Figure 6 provides an overview of the command and data handling and power subsystem architectures.  The remote units would be supplied with 2 Gb of memory and the hub would have 5 Gb of memory  Design Rationale  A low-powered avionics architecture would be achieved by developing a stand-alone controller capable of operating at various power levels. In the lowest power configuration only the mission clock and alarm clock logic would be active. Other logic, analog and I/O functions would be power strobed in the off mode during this very low-power mode. Science and engineering data would be stored in non-volatile memory elements that retain their data in the power-off mode  Risk  The controller requires engineering development to obtain the low-powered mode required for night operation However, it has been designed to incorporate components with flight heritage. A lower frequency oscillator would be used to reduce power  Telecom Subsystem 


Design Requirements  The telecom subsystem is designed to return 3.4 Gb of stored data every 16 days during lunar night in addition to 1.2 Gb of additional data collected each 24 hour period during daylight. This translates into a minimum direct-to-Earth return data rate of ~50 kbps for an 8 hour pass each Earth day for 16 days of sunlight. The subsystem must operate down to a temperature of -20  C and survive non-operational temperature of -50  C. The telecom subsystem would support two-way communications between the hub and the DSN network. It would also support two-way communications between the hub and each of the remote instrument packages on the surface. There would be a minimum 3 dB margin for the direct-to-Earth DTE  Design Assumptions  The telecom subsystem is assumed to be a single string design. The hub would have an S-band radio and antenna for two-way communications with a DSN 34 m ground station. The nominal downlink rate would be 120 kbps and the uplink rate would be 2 kbps. The surface links would be at UHF. The forward link data rate would be 8 kbps and the return rate would be 256 kbps. The maximum range for the surface links would be 100 m. All of the surface links would have line-of-sight between the units. It is assumed that the astronauts would point the Sband antenna towards Earth, within 5  of the center of Earth. This should be relatively easy to do as 5  is a very loose pointing requirement and the uplink/downlink would be marginally affected if the pointing is off by a little more than 5  A signal could be added which would use an uplink from the Earth to give a relative signal power to ensure the pointing requirement is met  Description of the Design  The telecom subsystem would use a commercial off-the-shelf S-band transponder \(L3 CXS-610 has a 5 W power amplifier and an S-band diplexer included This radio is used on GRAIL and a similar unit was used on Genesis. The diplexer would be connected to an S-band low gain antenna \(LGA be a 2-element S-band patch array with a boresight gain of 9 dB. It would be mounted on the end of one solar array on the hub and gimbaled to allow the astronaut to point it to the Earth  The hub communicates with each of the remote instrument units in UHF using a new UHF micro-transceiver. Each UHF microtransceiver would have a radio frequency output power of 50 mW. The UHF transceiver would use a halfduplex system meaning it would transmit and then listen However, it cannot do both at the same time. The UHF links would use a simple UHF monopole antenna, similar to the antennas flown on MER, and mounted on the top of the hub and remote units. The hub could only communicate with one remote unit at a time. Figure 7 shows the hub and remote unit telecom block diagrams  The S-Band telemetry link has a margin of 7.0 dB for a telemetry rate of 120 kbps into a 34 m beam waveguide ground station. The data rate could be increased to reduce 14 playback time. The surface link would have a margin exceeding 20 dB for a return data rate of 256 kbps. This includes a multipath loss allotment of 20 dB. The margin would be large because the range would be so small and all of the links would be line of sight  Design Rationale  Where available, the design of this subsystem uses heritage hardware. The UHF microtransceiver is a radio that is under development for the Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, low 


Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, lowpower and low temperature operation. The S-band antenna would be a smaller, simpler version of the antenna that flew on Deep Impact. Other antenna options would be available The UHF antennas have been flown on previous Mars lander/rover missions. There would be other alternatives for the S-band antenna and the UHF transceiver on the hub could use a larger power amplifier to talk to an orbiting asset as a backup to the S-band radio  Risk  The highest risk items for telecom would be the single string design for each element and six year design lifetime. However, the S-band radio has flight heritage. The UHF radios would be a new design but do not require new technology. They would be an engineering development 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY Mass Equipment List Table 5 shows a summary of the mass and power for each of the subsystems for the remote instrument units. The mass of one remote unit without the specified instrument is 26.6 kg with contingency specified at the subsystem level based on heritage. Table 6 shows a summary of mass and power by subsystem for the hub. The mass of the hub with contingency is 44.9 kg. Table 7 shows a mass summary for the entire package with appropriate contingencies added per the JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles Design Principles. The package totals 218.2 kg which includes four remote units, five instruments, one hub, and the carrier container\(s Table 5. Mass and power summary for remote units Remote Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 2.0 kg 29% 2.5 kg 0 W Telecom UHF 0.2 24% 0.3 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour 3 W Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 20.6 kg 29% 26.6 kg Diplexer S-Band Downconverter STDN command data to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r S-Band Exciter 9 dBi S-Band LGA UHF Downconverter Small UHF transceiver command data to S/C CDS 


to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r UHF PA UHF Monopole Command data to C&amp;DH Command dat  to C&amp;DH  Figure 7  Telecom block diagram for the S-band \(top bottom  units would be located on the hub while the remote units only contain a UHF system 15 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS Daytime Operations During the day, the remote units and hub would be fully operational. The remote units would collect data from their instruments as specified by the science team and store it in the controller memory. Table 8 shows the data volume expected from each instrument. After 24 hours have passed the UHF telecom system on the hub is used to poll each of the remote units separately at the designated interval for the stored data. The hub then transmits the data direct-to-Earth using the S-band radio. This requires a maximum of eight hours at 50 kbps each day using the DSN 34 m antennas However, data rates as high as 120 kbps may be achieved reducing the downlink time. The hub has enough memory margin to accumulate data from all the instruments for three Earth days before it must downlink the data Nighttime Operations During nighttime operations, data collection at the remote units would be taking place. The magnetometer and seismometer collect data continuously. However, the seismometer operates at a reduced mode where the sampling rate is reduced to one-half of the daytime rate which has been deemed more than adequate by the science team. The remaining instruments collect data at various intervals that would be conducive to the science team  s current requirements. Telecom events would not be scheduled during the lunar night. The data accumulates in the controller memory over 16 Earth days \(~14 days at an equatorial location would be considered a worse case so two days have been added to be conservative data volume summary for each instrument during a 16 Earth day lunar night. When the sun comes up and the hub and remote units have sufficient power to run the telecom systems the hub polls each remote unit separately at a designated interval similar to operations during the day. The data would then be transmitted to Earth gradually over the next few days using the S-band radio Table 7. Mass summary for total package Unit Mass Contingency Mass + contingency 4 Remote Units 82.4 kg 29% 106.4 kg Hub 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg Instruments including cabling 17.3 kg 30% 22.5 kg Carrier Container\(s Total with heritage contingency 153.1 kg 29% 197.5 kg  System contingency  21.4 kg 14 Total Package  43% 218.9 kg Table 8. Instrument data volumes received at the hub over one Earth day in daylight operations Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub 


Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 236 Magnetometer 58 Heat Flow Probe 2 Seismic Sounder 700 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 6 Total 1002 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 80  Table 6. Mass and power summary for hub Hub/Base Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 13.4 kg 28% 17.2 kg 0 W Telecom UHF Telecom S-band 3.4 15% 3.9 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour W \(day Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg 2.38 W avg at night  16 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The ALGEP modular design builds upon lessons learned from Apollo era ALSEP package and technology advances since that time. ALGEP meets the requirements of long lifetime survival while maintaining continuous operation of its instruments during the lunar night which can last up to 16 days at equatorial regions on the Moon. The package would be powered using solar arrays and batteries alone not requiring nuclear sources to supply power or maintain thermal control. This concept is feasible due to its lowpower operational mode at night The modular design and packaging scheme provides flexibility in deployment across all regions of the Moon including the farside pending the availability of an orbital communications asset. The relatively light ALGEP package could be accommodated on astronaut activity support vehicles, providing a method to distribute the packages across the Moon, ultimately gaining a Moon-wide understanding of lunar geophysical properties ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the NASA Lunar Sortie Science Opportunities Program The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer 


or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1] NRC  Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon   Washington D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2007 2] Apollo 11 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-214, 1969 3] Apollo 12 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-235, 1970 4] Apollo 14 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-272, 1971 5] Apollo 15 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-289, 1972 6] Apollo 16 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-315, 1972 7] Apollo 17 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-330, 1973 8] ALSEP Termination Report, NASA RP-1036, 1979 9] NRC  New Frontiers in the Solar System: an Integrated Exploration Strategy  Decadal Survey D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2003 10] International Lunar Network Science Definition Team Final Report, 2009 BIOGRAPHY Melissa Jones is a member of the technical staff in the Planetary and Lunar Mission Concepts Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Current work includes development of small Lunar lander concepts and instrument packages to deploy on the Moon,  Report Manager for the Titan Saturn System Mission Outer Planets Flagship Mission study, and staffing various concept studies as a systems engineer on Team X, JPL  s mission design team.  Melissa graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry and a Ph.D. in Space and Planetary Science from the University of Arkansas  Linda Herrell has a BA in math/computer science/languages \(University of Texas fluids and heat transfer \(City College of New York addition to analytical work in computer science and thermal and structural analysis, she has worked as both a payload \(instrument Earth orbiting \(Hubble Space Telescope, Earth Observing System \(EOS Cassini as Proposal Manager for several NASA science missions She currently serves as the Program Architect for NASA's New Millennium Program    Table 9. Instrument data volumes generated at the hub after 16 Earth day lunar night Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 1980 Magnetometer 920 Heat Flow Probe 5 Seismic Sounder 0 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 72 Total 2977 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 40  17 Bruce Banerdt has been a research geophysicist at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1977, where he does research in planetary geophysics and instrument development for flight projects. He has been on science teams for numerous planetary missions 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


