html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;"> Filler Item  Strategies for Shilling Attacks against Recommender Systems  Sanjog Ray Indian Institute of Management Calcutta, India fp062004@iimcal.ac.in  Ambuj Mahanti Indian Institute of Management Calcutta, India am@iimcal.ac.in  Abstract  In recent years recommender systems have become a ubiquitous feature in e-commerce sites. However the open nature of recommender systems makes them vulnerable to shilling attacks from malicious users Such attacks may lead to erosion of user trust in the objectivity and accuracy of the system. One critical area of research in security of recommender systems is the study of attack models. In this paper, we propose an approach for creating attack models. Our paper explores the importance of target item and filler items in mounting effective shilling attacks. Our attack strategies are based on intelligent selection of filler items. Filler items are selected on the basis of the target item rating distribution. We propose filler item strategies for both all-user attacks and insegment attacks. We show through experiments that our attack strategies are the most effective attack strategies against both user-based and item-based collaborative filtering systems  1. Introduction  Recommender systems are technology-based systems that provide personalized recommendations to users In these systems, opinions and actions of other users with similar tastes are used to generate recommendations. However, with increasing popularity of recommender systems in e-commerce sites, recommender systems have become susceptible to shilling attacks. In shilling attacks, attackers try to influence the system by inserting biased data into the system. Recent researches have started focusing on attack models and attack detection strategies. [1, 2 and 3 An attack on a recommender system is mounted by injecting a set of biased attack profiles into the system. Each attack profile contains biased ratings data and a target item. Profiles are injected into the system by fictitious user identities created by the attacker. Every attack can be classified as a push attack or a nuke attack. In a push attack, the objective of the attacker is to increase the likelihood of the target item being recommended to a large section of the users in the system. While in a nuke attack, the objective is to prevent the target item from being recommended An attack is also classified as a high-knowledge attack or   low-knowledge attack [3]. A highknowledge attack requires more detail knowledge of the rating distributions of each item present in the system. While in a low-knowledge attack, to launch an attack, dependence on the recommender system for information on the items is minimal. The approach of constructing the attack profile, based on knowledge about the items, products, and users in a recommender system is known as an attack model The primary objective of an attacker is to build attack models that provide the most impact with minimal 


models that provide the most impact with minimal knowledge. The other concern of importance to an attacker is to create models which are hard to detect by attack detection algorithms The general form of a push attack profile is shown in Figure 1 below. An attack profile consists of a set of m ratings for m items; where m is the total number of items present in the system. This attack profile of m ratings can be divided into four sets of items: a target item it, a set of selected items IS, a set of filler items usually randomly chosen IF, and a set of unrated items IE. While mounting an attack, the set of selected items remains same for all the attack profiles. For example, if a set of 10 attack profiles are inserted into the system to mount a push attack then all the 10 attack profiles will have the same set of selected items, while the set of filler items for each profile will most likely differ as they are randomly selected. So, while mounting an attack, all attack profiles inserted into the system to construct the attack will have the same set of selected items and target item, but set of filler items may differ among the inserted profiles. Attack models are defined by the rules by which these four set of items are identified and the way ratings are assigned to the items present in the sets. For some attacks, set of selected items may be empty  Selected Items \(IS Filler Items \(IF Unrated Items \(IE Target Items \(it  Figure 1. A General Form of Attack Profile Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE Most research on attack models have mainly focused on the set of selected items while creating new attack models. In this paper, we discuss the importance of target item as a critical factor in constructing effective shilling attacks. We propose attack strategies based on target item rating distribution. Our attack strategies also examine the importance of filler items in improving the effectiveness of an attack. Unlike previous approaches, our attack strategies are tailored on the basis of the recommender system algorithm being used. Our paper provides different attack models for mounting effective attacks against user-based collaborative filtering systems and item-based collaborative filtering systems respectively. We also provide filler item strategies for effective attacks against in-segment users. This work is an approach that is focused on constructing attack strategies through intelligent use of filler items based on target item rating distribution. Through experimental evaluation we show that our proposed strategies can result in more effective attacks against both userbased and item-based recommender systems This paper is organized as follows. In section 2 we provide a brief summary of various attack models and their filler strategies. In section 3 we describe user-based and item-based collaborative filtering algorithm. The evaluation metric used is also described in section 3. A discussion on target item classification approach is presented in section 4. In section 5 and section 6 we provide details of our 


section 5 and section 6 we provide details of our proposed filler items strategies for user-based and item-based collaborative filtering systems respectively. In section 7 we explain filler item strategies for segment-based attack. In section 8 we describe the experimental evaluation process and report the results obtained. We conclude the paper in section 9  2. Types of attacks  Various attack models have been proposed in previous researches on shilling of recommender systems. We discuss below, some of the popular attack models on which much research is focused on A comprehensive study of different attack models can be found in [3 Random attack: One of the initial attack models attack profile has filler items chosen randomly and ratings are assigned to the filler items from a set of random values chosen from a distribution centered on the system mean. System mean is the mean for all user ratings across all items. This is a low knowledge attack, as minimal knowledge is required to obtain system mean value. It has been found that this model is not very   effective [3 Average attack:  One of the most powerful attack models. In an average attack model, set of selected items is empty. Filler items are selected randomly and each filler item is assigned its mean rating. Mean rating here corresponds to the average rating for the item across all users in the database who have rated it. Average attack is a high-knowledge attack, as mean rating of each filler item is required to mount an attack. However, in [4] it has been shown that this attack can be effective with limited knowledge i.e an average attack model constructed using a small set of filler items can also result in an effective attack Bandwagon attack: In this model, the set of selected items contains few of those items that have high popularity among users. Thus, attack profiles constructed will result in creation of malicious users that will have higher chances of being similar to a large number of genuine users.  Selected items and the target item are assigned maximum rating value As in random attack, filler items are randomly selected and assigned mean rating of items across the whole system. Therefore, bandwagon attack can be seen as an extension of the random attack Bandwagon attack is a low?knowledge attack, as popular items data can be obtained from publicly available information sources. But it has been observed that bandwagon attacks are not as effective as average attack [3 Segmented attack: This attack is modeled to push the target item to those users who are most likely to be influenced by the recommendation. A segment is defined as a group of users having affinity for items of similar features. Group of users who have rated highly most of the popular horror movies is an example of a segment of users interested in horror movies. So, an attacker with intent to promote a horror movie will try to get his target item recommended to this segment of users, as the likelihood of influencing them is higher. In this model, the set of selected items contains few of those items that have high popularity among users of the targeted segment. Selected items and the target item are assigned maximum rating value. Filler items are identified randomly and given the lowest possible rating. It has been shown that segmented attack is the most effective model against in-segment users [3]. It 


most effective model against in-segment users [3]. It is a low-knowledge attack, as selection of highly rated movie with similar features can be achieved from public information sources  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 3. Recommendation algorithms and evaluation metrics  In this paper we have evaluated our filler item attack strategies against both user-based collaborative filtering algorithm and item-based collaborative filtering algorithm. In collaborative filtering \(CF user is recommended items that people with similar tastes and preferences liked in the past. Unlike context-based systems that use subject keywords and demographic details to recommended items, CF technique mainly relies on explicit ratings given by the user and is the most successful and widely used technique [5]. In this section we describe the collaborative filtering algorithms, the evaluation metric used, and the notion of prediction shift  3.1 User-based collaborative filtering  In user-based collaborative filtering [6], firstly, a neighborhood of k similar users is found for the target user. Then for generating prediction for an item not yet seen by the target user, weighted average of the ratings given by the k similar neighbors towards the predicted item is used To calculate similarity among users we use the Pearson-r correlation coefficient. Let the set of items rated by both users u and v be denoted by I, then similarity coefficient \( ,u vSim calculated as    2 2      u i u v i v i I u v u i u v i v i I i I r r r r Sim r r r r          1  Here ,u ir  denotes the rating of user u for item i and ur  is the average rating given by user u calculated over all items rated by u .Similarly, ,v ir denotes the rating of user v for item i, and vr  is the average rating given by user v calculated over all items rated by v To compute the prediction for an item i for target user u, we use the following formula     


   u v v i v V u i u u v v V Sim r r P r Sim       2  Where V represents the set of k similar users. While calculating prediction only those users in set V who have rated item i are considered  3.2 Item-based collaborative filtering  In item-based collaborative filtering [7 similarities between the various items are computed From the set of items rated by the target user, k items most similar to the target item are selected. For computing the prediction for the target item weighted average is taken of the target user?s ratings on the k similar items earlier selected. Weightage used is the similarity coefficient value between the target item and target user items To compute item-tem similarity we used adjusted cosine similarity. Let the set of users who rated both items i and j be denoted by U, then similarity coefficient \( ,i jSim    2 2      u i u u j u u U i j u i u u j u u U u U r r r r Sim r r r r          3  Here ,u ir  denotes the rating of user u for item i and  ur  is the average rating given by user u calculated over all items rated by u. Similarly, ,u jr denotes the rating of user u for item j To compute the predicted rating for a target item i for target user u, we use the following formula      


  i j u j j I u i i j j I Sim r P Sim      4  In equation 4, I represent the set of k most similar items to target item i that have already been rated by the target user u. As earlier mentioned, ,u jr denotes the rating of user u for item j  3.3  Prediction shift  For the purpose of measuring the effectiveness of the attack we use the widely used metric called prediction shift. Prediction shift of a target item is the difference of average predicted rate of the target item after and before the attack, for all target users Average Prediction shift of an attack is the average Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 change in prediction for all target items. We use the same formula as in [3], which is defined as follows  Let U and I be the sets of target users and target items. Let ,u i?  denote the prediction shift for user u on item i. ,u i?  can be measured as , , ,'u i u i u ip p where ,'u ip  is the prediction value after the attack and  ,u ip before the attack. The average prediction shift for an item i  over all users can be computed as     u i u U i U    5  The prediction shift for an attack model is the average prediction shift for all items tested. It can be computed as   i i I I     6  4. Target item classification  Our attack strategies are dependent on target item rating distribution. Target item is categorized into TL or TH category on the basis of the target item rating distribution. In a scale of 1 to 5, higher scale implies rating of 4 or 5, lower scale implies a rating 


implies rating of 4 or 5, lower scale implies a rating of 1 or 2 TL: Target item with majority of their ratings at lower end of the rating scale fall into this category. In our experiment we grouped items with 60 % or more of their ratings as 1 or 2 in this category TH: Target item with majority of their ratings at higher end of the rating scale fall into this category In our experiment we grouped items with 60 % or more of their ratings as 4 or 5 in this category Once category of the target item and the recommendation system algorithm to be attacked are known, an appropriate strategy based on filler items is then used to construct attack profiles  5. Filler item strategies for user-based collaborative filtering systems  Known attack models like average attack, bandwagon attack, and segmented attack are focused at constructing attack profiles that will result in creation of malicious users that have greater chance of having high similarity with as many genuine users as possible. Because a malicious user with high similarity with a genuine user increases the chance of it being selected in top k similar neighbors of the genuine user, thereby influencing the rating of the target item. Bandwagon attack and segmented attack have tried to achieve this objective by selecting popular items as part of their attack profiles. An attack profile consisting of the popular items will have similarity with higher number of users, which should finally result in an effective attack. However it has been found that average attack is more effective compared to bandwagon and segmented attack when effectiveness is measured across all users [3 Segment attack performs better than average attack only in in-segment attacks. One possible reason for this unexpected result could be the presence of other factors which also affect the effectiveness of an attack Our proposed approach for user-based CF systems considers rating distribution of the target item as a critical factor that can affect the effectiveness of an attack. Unlike previous attack models which focus on creating malicious users that are similar to as many genuine users as possible from the set of all users; the objective of our approach is to create malicious users that increase similarity with as many of those genuine users who have rated the target item. Our approach proposes two strategies that are based on the rating distribution of the target item. Both strategies improve similarity by assigning appropriate values to filler items. As we show below, our proposed approach performs substantially better than best available attack model i.e., average attack model. We define below the two strategies  5.1 Strategy UL  This strategy is followed when the target item falls in TL category. As majority of the users have rated the target item at the lower end of the rating scale, to improve effectiveness of the attack, we need to create malicious users that are similar to the genuine users who have rated the target item with a lower value So, to improve similarity, a randomly selected filler item is assigned the average rating given to the filler item by those users who have rated the target item at the lower scale Let UA be the set of all users who have rated the 


Let UA be the set of all users who have rated the randomly selected filler item IF. Let UL be the set of all users who have rated the target item at a lower scale of rating and have also rated the randomly selected filler item. So, in this strategy, filler item IF is assigned the average rating given to it by the set of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 users UL. This approach differs from average attack in the way filler items are assigned values, as in an average attack item IF was assigned the average rating given to it by the set of users UA  5.2  Strategy UH  This strategy is followed when the target item falls in TH category. As a large majority of the users have rated the target item at the higher end of the rating scale, to improve effectiveness of the attack, we need to create malicious users  that are similar to the genuine users who have rated the target item with a higher value. So, to improve similarity, a randomly selected filler item is assigned the average rating given to the filler item by those users who have rated the target item at the higher scale Let UA be the set of all users who have rated the randomly selected filler item IF. Let UH be the set of all users who have rated the target item at a higher scale of rating and have also rated the randomly selected filler item. So, in this strategy, filler item IF is assigned the average rating given to it by the set of users UH. This approach differs from average attack in the way filler items are assigned values, as in average attack item IF was assigned the average rating given to it by the set of users UA  6. Filler item strategies for item-based collaborative filtering systems  It has also been found that attack models are not as effective against item-based CF systems as they are against user-based CF systems [3]. One explanation of this may be because most attack models are designed to improve similarity among users than items Our proposed approach for item-based CF system is designed to improve similarity among items and considers rating distribution of the target item as a critical factor that can affect the effectiveness of an attack. Our approach proposes two strategies that are based on the rating distribution of the target item Both strategies improve similarity by selecting appropriate filler items.  While in filler item strategies against user-based CF systems we had modified an existing attack model i.e., average attack model by intelligently assigning values to filler items the strategies elaborated in this section is a new approach that is focused on selection of appropriate filler items and is specifically built for attack against item-based collaborative filtering systems. As we show below, our proposed approach performs substantially better than average attack model. We define below the two strategies  6.1 Strategy IL  This strategy is followed when the target item falls in TL category. As majority of the users have rated the target item at the lower end of the rating scale, it is most likely that items similar to the target item will also be rated at the lower end of the scale. To improve effectiveness of the attack, we need to create 


improve effectiveness of the attack, we need to create malicious users that increase the similarity of the target item with items which are rated at the higher end of the rating scale. So, to improve similarity, we select filler items from the set of items which are highly rated by those users who have rated target item at a lower scale. In a scale of 1 to 5, higher scale implies rating of 4 or 5, lower scale implies a rating of 1 or 2 Let UL be the set of all users who have rated the target item at a lower scale of rating i.e., 1 or 2. Let IF be the set of items that have been rated 4 or 5 by the set of users UL. So, in this strategy, filler items are selected from this set of items IF. To select filler items, frequency count of all items which are rated 5 in set IF is computed and those with higher frequency count are given preference while selecting filler items. In case that the number of filler items required for creating an attack profile can?t be fulfilled by all the 5 rated items in the set IF then a frequency count of all 4 rated items in set IF is computed. As in earlier case, during selection of filler items, items with higher count are given preference. It is also taken into consideration that filler items selected should be distinct. All items selected as filler items are assigned the maximum rating of the rating scale i.e., 5 in a scale of 1 to 5.  In case number of filler items required are more than the number of items present in set IF then remaining filler items are selected randomly from the set of all items as done in an average attack. In an average attack, filler items are randomly selected and rating assigned to a filler item is its average rating  6.2  Strategy IH  This strategy is followed when the target item falls in TH category. As majority of the users have rated the target item at the higher end of the rating scale, it is most likely that items similar to the target item will also be rated at the higher end of the scale. In this strategy we try to further increase the association of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 target item with more highly rated items. So, to improve similarity, we select filler items from the set of items which are highly rated by those users who have rated the target item at a higher scale. This will help further strengthen the similarity of target item with highly rated items Let UH be the set of all users who have rated the target item at a higher scale of rating i.e., 4 or 5. Let IF be the set of items that have been rated 4 or 5 by the set of users UH. So, in this strategy, filler items are selected from this set of items IF. The process of selecting filler items from the set IF is exactly similar to that of Strategy IL The two strategies Strategy IL and Strategy IH differ in the way members of UL and UH   are selected  7. Filler item strategies for segment-based attack  In [3] it has been shown that segmented attack is the most effective attack model against in-segment users. It performs much better than average attack model, the most effective model when effectiveness is measured across all users. A segmented attack is mounted with the intent of pushing a target item towards a specific group of users i.e., a segment of users that are grouped on the basis of their similarity in preferences for a category of items. The selection 


in preferences for a category of items. The selection of segment is done by selecting highly rated popular items with similar characteristics. Segmented attack is focused on those users who have highly rated majority of the selected items present in the segment For example, group of users who have highly rated at least any three of the five most popular animation movies form a segment of users interested in animation movies. An attacker with intent to promote a new animation movie will find it beneficial to mount a segmented attack against a segment of user interested in animation movies In our work, we study the effect of our filler item strategies in further improving the effectiveness of insegment attacks against both user-based and itembased attacks. In segment attack, filler items are randomly selected and assigned the minimum value in the rating scale. The reasoning behind assignment of minimum value to the filler item has not been explained in detail in any of the literature on segmented attack.  We provide below details of our filler item strategies for segment attack  7.1 Strategy SUL  This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against a user-based CF system and the target item falls in TL category. In our approach to improve effectiveness of the attack, we need to create malicious users that are similar to those genuine users who have rated the target item with a lower value and also belong to the segment of users targeted by the segmented attack. So, to improve similarity, a randomly selected filler item is assigned the average rating given to it by those users who have rated any of the items that define the segment and have also rated the target item at a lower scale. For example for an attack against a segment of users interested in animation movies i.e., those users who have rated highly at least any three of the five most popular movies in animation genre, a filler item is assigned the average rating given to it by those users who have rated the target item at a lower rating and have rated highly at least one of the five animation movies that define the segment  7.2 Strategy SUH This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against a user-based CF system and the target item falls in TH category. To improve effectiveness of a segment attack, a randomly selected filler item is assigned the average rating given to it by those users who have rated any of the items that define the segment and have also rated the target item at a higher scale  7.3 Strategy SIL  This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against an item-based CF system and the target item falls in TL category. To improve effectiveness of a segment attack, we select filler items from the set of items which are highly rated by those users who have rated target item at a lower scale. The strategy used is similar to Strategy IL Filler items are selected the way explained in section 6.1  7.4 Strategy SIH  This strategy is followed when a segment attack is mounted against an item-based CF system and the 


target item falls in TH category. To improve effectiveness of a segment attack, we select filler items from the set of items which are highly rated by those users who have rated target item at a higher Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 scale. The strategy used is similar to Strategy IH Filler items are selected the way explained in section 6.2  8. Experimental evaluation and discussion  We performed the experimental evaluation of our strategies on the publicly available MovieLens data set [8]. This is the most widely used dataset in recommender systems research. MovieLens consists of 100,000 ratings made by 943 users on 1682 movies. Each user in the data set has rated at least 20 movies and each movie has been rated at least once A timestamp value is associated with each user movie, and rating combination. The data set also contains information on the demographic detail \(age sex, occupation, and zip code information \(genre and release date The ratings are made in a scale of 1 to 5, where 5 indicate extreme likeness for an item and 1 dislike We evaluated effectiveness of the proposed strategies on user-based and item-based collaborative algorithm. For similarity calculation and prediction in user-based CF algorithm, equations 1 and 2 stated in section 3 were used. Similarly, equations 3 and 4 stated in section 3 were used for computing similarity and prediction value for item-based CF algorithm We used a neighborhood size of k = 20 for prediction calculation. Case amplification value of 10 was used while calculating correlation and only positive correlations values were considered for computing predictions To conduct our evaluation, we selected a sample 20 items. Out of the 20 items, 10 items belonged to TL  category while remaining 10 items to TH category All the 20 items were selected randomly from a larger set of items belonging to each category. We also randomly selected a sample of 50 target users Target users selected were those who have never rated any of the 20 test items. Each of the target items was attacked individually and the prediction shift was calculated by averaging the prediction shift observed for each user. The final prediction shift for the attack is the average prediction over all items used in the test. Equation 6 was used to calculate the metric For implementation of segmented attack we followed the same guidelines as stated in [3]. Horror segment was selected as the target segment. Five of the most popular horror movies were selected to represent the segment. These five movies selected formed the selected item set in the attack profiles constructed. The five movies are Alien, Psycho, The Shining, Jaws, and The Birds. Users who have given a rating of 4 or 5 to at least any 3 of the five movies were identified as the target segment against which the attack was focused. For calculating prediction shift we selected 50 of the users from this target segment to form the test user set. While implementing the segment attack, selected items were given a rating of 5 and the randomly selected filler items were assigned a value 1 All experiments were conducted for ?Size of attack? values 1%, 3%, 6%, 12%, and 15%.  ?Size of attack? represents number of attack profiles added as a percentage of pre-attack profiles. 1% ?Size of attack? implies 10 attack profiles were added to a 


attack? implies 10 attack profiles were added to a system of 1000 genuine users. On the basis of the results reported in [4] that best results are reported when a filler size of 3% is used in an average attack we used a filler size of 3% for all our tests i.e., 3 % of 1682 items which is approximately 50 filler items For attacks against user-based collaborative filtering systems we used six strategies: Strategy UL, Strategy UH, Strategy SUL, Strategy SUH, segment attack and average attack. Similarly, for attacks against item based collaborative filtering systems we used six strategies: Strategy IL, Strategy IH Strategy SIL Strategy SIH, segment attack and average attack. For average attack, filler item strategy used was the same as in an average attack i.e., the mean of the filler item was assigned to it. Segment attack was implemented as explained earlier. Category TL, Category TH Strategy UL, Strategy UH, Strategy IL, Strategy IH Strategy SUL, Strategy SUH, Strategy SIL and Strategy SIH were implemented the way explained earlier in section 4, section 5, section 6 and section 7 respectively. For attacks against item-based CF while selecting filler items from set IF, only items with minimum frequency count of 10 were considered Figure 2 and Figure 3 show the effectiveness of our attacks when calculated for all users against systems using user-based collaborative filtering for recommendations.  Figure 2 shows the prediction shift values of attacks Strategy UL and average attack for items belonging to TL category. From the graph it?s obvious that for items in TL category, Strategy UL outperforms average attack model for all values of attack size. Similarly, Figure 3 shows the prediction shift values for the attack strategies Strategy UH and average attack for items belonging to TH category From the graph it can be concluded that for items belonging to TH category, Strategy UH performs much better than average attack over lower values of attack size. At attack size of 12 % and 15% both attack have similar effectiveness Figure 4 and Figure 5 show the effectiveness of our attacks when calculated for all users against systems using item-based collaborative filtering for recommendations.  Figure 4 shows the prediction shift values of Strategy IL and average attack for Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 items belonging to TL category. Similarly, Figure 5 shows the prediction shift values for the Strategy IH and average attack for items belonging to TH category. From Figure 4 and 5 it can be concluded that both Strategy IL and Strategy IH perform substantially better than average attack over all values of attack size. It can also be observed that our attack strategies are more effective against itembased systems than user-based systems Figure 6, 7, 8, and 9 show the effectiveness of our filler based attack strategies for in-segment users. We observe that for attacks against both user-based and item-based CF systems the effectiveness of our filler based strategies is comparable to the best available attack model for in-segment attacks i.e., segment attack. However, in Figure 8 we observe that filler item strategy SIL performs better than segment attack. Because of the low knowledge cost involved in segment attack, we can conclude that for most scenarios segment attack is a better attack model for in-segment attacks than filler based attack models Experimental results clearly show that our approach of selecting a strategy based on target item rating distribution outperforms the best available attack model i.e., average model. One drawback of 


attack model i.e., average model. One drawback of our attack strategies is its high knowledge cost However, automated software agents can help diminish the cost. One approach that can be used to decrease the cost is to use a subset of users while selecting filler items. For example, in attacks against item-based systems, while implementing Strategy IH instead of selecting all users who have rated target item as 4 or 5 as members of the set UH. , we only select 20 users. Selection of items for set IF will then be performed using the data of the 20 users in set UH Similarly, in case of attacks against user-based systems, while implementing Strategy UH instead of assigning a filler item IF the average rating given to it by the set of users UH. , we assign IF the average rating given to it by a subset of 5 randomly selected users from UH. In future work we plan to experimentally verify the effectiveness of these cost reduction approaches    Figure 2:   Attack on TL category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 3:   Attack on TH   category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 4:   Attack on TL category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8  Figure 5:   Attack on TH category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 6:   Attack on TL category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 7:   Attack on TH   category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system    Figure 8:   Attack on TL category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 9:   Attack on TH category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system  9. Conclusion  This paper provides an effective approach towards constructing attack models. We show the importance of target item and filler items in construction of successful attack strategies. Through experiments we show that our approach of intelligent selection of filler items based on target item rating distribution results in substantial improvement over the baseline average attack. We also compare our approach with the well known in-segment approach and conclude that our approach gives slightly improved results. In future, we plan to examine the filler items strategies for other attack models, and also create algorithms to improve robustness and stability of recommender systems against shilling attacks 


systems against shilling attacks  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  10. References  1] Lam, S., and Riedl, J. 2004. Shilling Recommender Systems for Fun and Profit, In Proceedings of the 13th International WWW Conference 2] Mehta, B., Hofmann, T., and Nejdl, W. 2007. Robust Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, 49-56 3] Mobasher, B., Burke, R., Bhaumik, R., and Williams C. 2007. Towards Trustworthy Recommender Systems: An Analysis of Attack Models and Algorithm Robustness, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, 7\(2007 4] Burke, R., Mobasher, B., and Bhaumik, R. 2005 Limited Knowledge Shilling Attacks in Collaborative Filtering Systems, In Proceedings of Workshop on Intelligent Techniques for Web Personalization 5] Konstan, J., Miller, B., Maltz, D., Herlocker, J Gordon, L., and Riedl, J. 1997.  GroupLens: Applying Collaborative Filtering to Usenet News Communications of the ACM, 40, 3\(1997 6] Herlocker, J., Konstan, J., Borchers, A., and Riedl J.1999. An Algorithm Framework for Performing Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of  SIGIR ACM, 77-87 7] Sarwar, B., Karypis, G., Konstan, J., and Riedl, J 2001. Item-based Collaborative Filtering of Recommendation Algorithms. In Proceedings of the 10th International WWW Conference 8] MovieLens data set,www.grouplens.org  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 Current Time \(min  Healthy Failure Expected Just-in-time line Actual Remaining Life  Figure 17. Results of failure prognosis 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 Time \(min Sp al l S iz e  m m 2 Interpolation of spall growth according to feature values 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Time \(min Fe a tu re V a lu e    Interpolation of feature value with noise Interpolation of feature vlaue snapshot with ground truth data 11 CONCLUSIONS This paper shows that enhancements to diagnostic techniques are desirable as well as attainable additions to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS particularly in the case of rotorcraft component monitoring Enhancements like those presented support CBM efforts primarily in two ways: reduce the sensitivity of diagnostic processes to both signal noise and variations in environmental and operating conditions, and improve the performance of detection systems as well as the task of fault identification \(e.g., severity quantification instantiation of reliable prognostics Representative examples, motivated by the interest of the U.S. Army in transitioning from time-based \(using TBO definitions drive train bearing, illustrates the potential benefits of 


pursuing an integrated approach to diagnostics and prognostics, combining technologies for enhanced data preprocessing, advanced diagnostic-support algorithms, fusion at the sensor/feature levels, and an adequate framework for false alarm mitigation and uncertainty management. An architecture for achieving such integration is presented, with emphasis on supporting a robust performance of diagnostics operations, even in the presence of such kinds of disturbances as those observed in data acquired by HUMS vibration sensors. The present study also gives relevance to seeded fault because the technologies discussed can integrate knowledge about damage mechanism interactions or physics-of-failure models, as well as make use of multiple-sensor and multiple-feature data sets representative of known fault conditions For this reason, the team behind this project is evaluating a potential opportunity to perform a series of tests on rotorcraft drive train bearings with varying fault severities and under multiple, though realistic, operating conditions Such tests are being planned to provide algorithm/model validations, as well as diagnostic/prognostic performance assessments, in support of providing the U.S. Army with technologies that make detection systems more robust allow for the implementation of prognostics, and extend the useful life of drive train components. Component degradation testing thus remains as future, follow-up work to the research reported in this document ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work has been partially supported with a cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory under contract number W911NF-07-2-0075. In addition to the primary authors, we would like to thank government and contractor representatives from organizations supporting the Army Utility \(Blackhawk Estes, Mr. Carlos Rivera, and Dr. Jon Keller. This work has also benefitted greatly from consultations with other Army Research Laboratory and NASA Glenn researchers such as Dr. Timothy Krantz, Dr. David Lewicki, Dr. Harry Decker Dr. Hiralal Khatri, Mr. Ken Ranney and Mr. Kwok Tom REFERENCES 1] Branhof, R.W., Grabill, P., Grant, L., and Keller, J.A  Application of Automated Rotor Smoothing Using Continuous Vibration Measurements  American Helicopter Society 61st annual forum, Grapevine, Texas June 1  3, 2005 2] Dora, R., Wright, J., Hess, R., and Boydstun, B  Utility of the IMD HUMS in an Operational Setting on the UH60L Blackhawk  American Helicopter Society 60th annual forum, Baltimore, Maryland, May 7  10, 2004 3] Zakrajsek, J.J., Dempsey, P.J., et al  Rotorcraft Health Management Issues and Challenges  NASA report TM  2006-214022. February, 2006 4] Suggs, D.T., and Wade, D.R  Vibration Based Maintenance Credits for the UH-60 Oil Cooler Fan Assembly  American Helicopter Society, CBM Specialists Meeting, Huntsville, Alabama, February 13 2008 5] Baker, C., Marble, S., Morton, B.P., and Smith, B.J  Failure Modes and Prognostic Techniques for H-60 Tail Rotor Drive System Bearings  IEEEAC paper #1122 IEEE, 2007 6] Keller, J.A., Branhof, R., Dunaway, D., and Grabill, P  Examples of Condition Based Maintenance with the Vibration Management Enhancement Program   American Helicopter Society 61st Annual Forum Grapevine, Texas, June 1  3, 2005 7] Zhang, B., Sconyers, C., Byington, C.S., Patrick, R Orchard, M.E., and Vachtsevanos, G.J  Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of 


Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults  International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, Colorado October 6-9, 2008 8] Byington, C.S., Watson, M., Lee, H., and Hollins, M  Sensor-level Fusion to Enhance Health and Usage Monitoring Systems  American Helicopter Society, 64th Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29-May 1, 2008 9] Engel, S.J., Gilmartin, B.J., Bongort, K., and Hess, A  Prognostics, the Real Issues Involved With Predicting Life Remaining  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 18-25, 2000 12 BIOGRAPHY Romano Patrick is a Project Manager at Impact Technologies. He received a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology specializing in model-based machine health diagnostics and prognostics. He also holds an MBA from Georgia Tech and degrees from U Texas, Arlington and U. Panamericana, Mexico. With career focus on interdisciplinary integration of technologies, his recent work involves practicable diagnostics/prognostics design for complex systems, such as rotorcraft drive trains Past experience includes automation and design for a variety of industrial and government sponsors \(DARPA, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, etc and program coordination at U. Panamericana, and some entrepreneurial R&amp;D Matthew J. Smith is a Senior Project Engineer at Impact Technologies. During his tenure with Impact, Matthew has performed multiple efforts pertaining to bearing vibration analysis, diagnostic and prognostic system development, and experimental study of faulted system reponse and fault progression. Previously, as a research assistant at Penn State and the NASA Glenn Research Center, Matthew performed experimental and analytical oil-free bearing analyses Matthew received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University. His research interests include: prognostic health assessment for bearing and actuator systems, grease degradation modeling and fault classifier development Bin Zhang received his Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore in 2007. He received his BE and MSE degrees from Nanjing University of Science and Technology, China, in 1993 and 1999, respectively. He is a senior member of IEEE. From 2005 to present, he has been a Post-Doc with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA His current research interests are fault diagnosis and failure prognosis, systems and control, digital signal processing learning control, intelligent systems and their applications to robotics, power electronics and various mechanical systems Carl S. Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies. He directs R&amp;D in pursuit of advanced, automated systems health management for land-based, shipboard, and airborne machinery for military and commercial customers. He is Chairman of the Machinery Diagnostics &amp; Prognostics Committee of ASME and a member of IEEE, AIAA, SAE and AHS. He has a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Aeronautical Engineering from George Washington University, and has published over 60 papers, book chapters, magazine and journal articles related to diagnostics and prognostics technologies George Vachtsevanos is Professor Emeritus at the Georgia Institute of Technology and also serves as the Chief Scientist at Impact Technologies, LLC. He directed the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech for the past 28 years where faculty and students are conducting research in fault diagnosis/prognosis and fault-tolerant control of engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial 


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





