The Role of Soci al Capital in the Creation of Community Wireless Networks   Abdelnasser Abdelaal    Hesham Ali    Deepak Khazanchi College of Information Science and Technology University of Nebraska at Omaha Omaha, NE 68182 aabdelaal, hali, khazanchi}@mail.unomaha.edu   Abstract Community wireless networks \(CWNs\ offer free or affordable Internet access for the purpose of improving the well-being of the community. Many questions have been raised about the ownership sustainability, and social and economic 
implications of CWNs. To address these concerns we propose a conceptual framework that describes the role of social capital in the creation of CWNs This framework takes into account a number of collective actions and cooperative activities that contribute to the development of CWNs. These actions and cooperative activities include donating money and hardware, volunteering manpower and technical skills, developing open source software for the network, and sharing wireless nodes with peers. We used the collective actions and cooperation construct of the social capital concept to attribute these types of community contributions We collected data via a survey to support the proposed framework. The primary implication for 
practitioners is that mobilizing embedded resources in communities can build a common wireless infrastructure for their digital needs. This study is an important step towards advancing this topic as an intellectual stream  1  Introduction   Affordable Internet access has become essential for improving people's livelihoods. However, 80 percent of the world s population has limited access to the Internet, particularly rural and underserved communities. Such communities are lagging behind, in the digital sense, because they cannot take advantage of 
the social and economic opportunities of the Internet Community wireless networks \(CWNs\ have emerged as grassroots connectivity solutions for such devastated societies [1, 15, 22, 24, 27, and 29 W Ns are clu s ters  of socio-technical networks funded, implemented, and operated by the community in order to provide free or affordable Internet access to its members T h e ris e  of these common infrastructures is driven mainly by the advancements of wireless technologies, unlicensed spectrum, contributions of volunteers, open source 
software and hardware, and the explosive growth of home networking and public WiFi hotspots [4, 24, and 27 Developing these cooperative networks requires a motivated and committed group of people with shared objectives and strong social ties who work and contribute for the well-being of their community [4, 7 14, 18, 24, and 27 oth e r words, CW Ns are bu ilt a n d operated using community resources \(e.g., time, money skills, and computer resources\As with other collective projects, the greatest challenge facing CWNs 
is not technical \(e.g., building the wireless network\ but social: engaging the community, sustaining volunteers and donors, attracting a wide range of users and adopting a sustainable business model [1, 14, 23, 29 18, 24, and 27  These networks were built by technology developers primarily to obtain technical expertise. However, they have been redirected to achieve societal objectives [18 24, and 27 Bes i des prov id in g  f r ee In tern e t acces s   CWNs serve as social venues where community members meet to deal with financial, legal implementation and management issues. Community 
members hold discussion forums and awareness events solicit feedback from community members, and coordinate related logistic activities They also donate money and hardware, volunteer time and manpower develop Open Source Software \(OSS\ for the system and share their nodes with their neighbors These collective actions and cooperative activities are driven by the social capital in the community. The construct of collective action and cooperation refers to how community members work together to achieve common goals. It shows that achieving collective actions is possible only if sufficient social capital is available in 
the community h e m a j o r ex ception occu rs i n  totalitarian societies when governments force people to work together on collective actions or common projects While some scholars consider collective actions and cooperation as outcomes of social capital 8, 12, an oth e rs con s id er th e m o n e of t h e s o cial  capital dimensions [8 an  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3 2009 U.S. Government Work Not Protected by U.S. Copyright 


The social capital concept refers to social ties, norms obligations, cooperation, trust, and embedded resources in social structures that achieve collective actions [2, 3 8, 10, 12, an h o w s that h a v i n g access to s o cial  resources can generate positive socioeconomic outcomes h es e res o u r ces  m a y in c l u d e  information, ideas, knowledge connections or any form of resources that could be shared with others Social capital can enhance economic achievements alleviate poverty, increase income, accrue human capital \(e.g., skills, knowledge\mprove health care decrease transaction costs, and enhance child welfare 2, 26 th e dig ital do m a i n social capital of volunteers has created OSS, wikis, virtual communities and many other digital produ cts and electronic tools 19, 29 P r ev iou s s t u d ies th a t address th e relatio n s h i p  between social capital and the Internet have focused on whether the Internet increases or decreases social capital. Our objective is to complement previous literature by exploring the dual version of this relationship. In particular, we address the role of social capital in the creation of CWNs. The specific research question we address is What is the contri bution of social capital to the creation of CWNs To answer this question, we explored different forms of collective actions and cooperative activities achieved by community members in order to develop these networks. We situated these collective actions in the social capital research stream, because some scholars consider the construc t of collective actions and cooperation an outcome of social capital [8, 12 d  others consider it one of the social capital dimensions 26  T h is stu d y i s  m o ti v a ted b y th e f o llo w i n g   i  Rural and underserved communities lack the sufficient commercial incentives to attract telecommunication companies because of low population density, remote location, low income or harsh geography h eref ore, e m po w e ri n g  volunteers and relying on the social capital in the community may be the only viable way to include these communities in the digital age ii  At this embryonic stage, it is necessary to describe the evolution of such grassroots networks within their social settings. Such description is important for us to understand the heavy confluence between their social factors and technical factors; and, this is important to advancing this innovation as a research stream The rest of this paper is organized as follows: the following section discusses the literature of the relationship between social capital and CWNs. Then we presented the used research methodology. In the fourth section, we analyzed the collected data and attributed the collective actions in the domain of CWNs. In the fifth section, we linked the factors of CWNs to the dimensions of social capital identified by different scholars. In the sixth section, we discussed the significance of our research and suggested some ideas for future work. We concluded our study in the last section  2. Literature review   It is important to point out that CWNs lie at the confluence of social networks, nonprofit organizations and emerging wireless technologies e  that these three dimensions should be considered in order to advance this research stream. The business model concept has been used to address the business aspects of these networks, such as value offerings finances, target customers, infrastructure management and stakeholders [1, 9, an T h e m a in tec h n i cal  variables of CWNs are choosing the proper technology assuring quality of service \(QoS\d security optimizing resource allocation, and supporting device roaming between different wireless clouds [1, 25, and  r s t u d y co m p le m e n t s  prev i ou s res earch related  to the design of CWNs by exploring the social factors of these networks. Therefore, our review of the literature focused on the outcomes of social capital in the domain of CWNs  2.1 The social capital concept and collective actions  Nahapiet and Ghoshal recognize three dimensions of social capital: \(1\ctural: the pattern of relationships linking actors, \(2\nal: social relationships between individuals, and \(3\nitive: shared meaning and understanding Th e y dis t ingu ish bet w ee n social capital and its consequences. We focused only on the outcomes of social capital with respect to CWNs Lin defines social capital as resources embedded in social structures which are accessed and/or mobilized in purposive actions  en ti f i es t h ree co m pon e n ts  of social capital: resources embedded in social structures; accessing these resources by individuals; and mobilizing such resources by individuals to achieve purposive actions Woolcock defines social capital as the norms and networks that facilitate collective actions 17 He n o t es th at it is d i fficu lt to d e termin e wh eth er  social capital is the infrastructure itself, the content of social relations, the medi um, or the outcome. According to Coleman, social capital is intangible; fungible; and context specific; exist only among groups rather than individuals; and difficult to measur m a n recognizes three components of social capital Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


obligations and expectations, information channels, and social norms Quan-Haaseand and Wellman point out that the concept of social capital is used interchangeably with social contact or civic engageme t act  includes interpersonal communications such as visits encounters, phone calls, and social events in general Civic engagement refers to the degree to which people become involved in their community. Civic engagement and volunteerism are at the heart of our study. Resnick views social capital as an input/output model that has the following sources of social capital communication paths, common knowledge, shared values, collective identity, obligations, roles and norms and trus tpu t s in c l u d e inf o r m a tion rou t ing   resource exchange, emotional support, coordination and collective action  2.2 CWNs and social capital  In previous work, we describe a CWN as two networks: a wireless network and a social network served by this wireless network t h i s des c ri pt i on we parse out the social, economic, and technical factors of CWNs in order to help researchers address them in a quantitative manner. Sligo and Wallace argue that providing free Internet in New Zealand strengthens community connectedness, improves civic engagement and increases neighbors ties Huy s m a n an d W u lf point out that those electronic networks create social   Kavanaugh and Patterson state that community computer networks positively impact social capital because they increase access to the information so  Joseph examined the role of WiFi-enabled public libraries in creating social capital [5  Th e  findings indicate that establishing a cafÈ and/or wireless Internet can significantly increase the communityês use of the library Abdelaal and Ali classified different cooperative business models for implementing CWNs  T h e au t h ors attrib u t e t y pe s o f cooperation an d  partnerships between stakeholders of CWNs Quinn used multiple case studies to develop a guide that highlights the role of community engagement volunteerism, OSS, and donated computers and other hardware in the creation of these systems According to Quinn, engaging the community was achieved through word of mouth, fliers, especial events mailing lists, community meetings, and community newsletters Simpson argues that social capital boosts the sustainability of community informatics projects [7   According to Simpson, social capital is important for realizing community capacity, building the shared understanding of the benefits of these projects, and exploring the capability of such initiatives in building new forms of social structures. It also enables community ownership of the infrastructure Additionally, it fosters social inclusion, increases community interaction, and boosts community cohesiveness Quan-Haase and Wellman note that empirical studies that investigated the relationship between social capital and the Internet have yielded mixed resu The authors categorize their findings into four scenarios: diminishing social capital, transforming social capital, supplementing social capital, increasing social capital, or accruing a new form of social capital that cannot be measured using mainstream standards The construct of collective action and social dilemmas theory have been used to explore the motivations of CWNs participants [18 T h e au th o r s  propose a taxonomy of participants to explain how individuals solve the social dilemmas associated with their participation A multiple case study attributes CWNs as cooperative actions that have been created by developers to obtain t echnical expertis  findings show that these networks have little impact on democracy, social capital, and economic development The authors, however, note that these networks generate social ties and promote knowledge in the community. Meinrath calls WCNs open infrastructures" and he proposes a research agenda and a plan of actions for boosting these networks T h e  Wireless Leiden, Netherlands, network used low cost network technologies, OSS, home-built antennas, and voluntary manpower and technical support to build a wireless infrastructure that provided wireless internet at a very low cost e attr ibu t e s u c h res o u r ces  u s ed  to build Wireless Leiden as collective actions driven by the social capital in the community. Shin and Venkatesh analyze the wireless network of Kutztown Community T h e au t h ors su gg e s t t h at co mm un it y participation should continue through all development stages in order for these networks to be sustainable  3  Research methodology  Previous literature shows that community networks build social capital [3, 5, 6, an r s t u d y  f o cus e s on the dual version of this relationship. In particular, we explore the outcomes of mobilizing the social capital of local communities to build a wireless network for their use. These outcomes are the collective actions and cooperative activities incurred using embedded resources \(e.g., social values, technical skills, time donations, and computer resources\ in the community while developing these networks. We adopted the social capital notion of the World Bank that recognizes six Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


dimensions for social capital: groups and networks trust and solidarity, information and communication empowerment and political action, social cohesion and inclusion, collective action and cooperation [2 We  collected data about these six dimensions, but this paper presents only the collective actions and cooperation in the domain of CWNs. The construct of collective actions and cooperation measures how community members have cooperated to achieve collective objectives o con s i d ers th e con s eq u e n c e s o f  violating community expectations, but we do not address this dimension.  We used a survey instrument to collect data from CWN activists during their annual summit 1 We chose this summit as a venue for the data collection process because of the diversity of its attendees and their expertise in this domain. They included project managers, volunteers, donors, civil activists, advocates and technology vendors. The data has been collected at the level of projects We used the short version \(or the core questions the World Bank instrument after modifying it to suit our subj particu l ar w e  m odif i ed qu e s tions 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, and 3.6 of this questionnaire. We added questions to collect data about other facets of community contributions such as money and hardware donations, sharing access points with peers, providing technical support, and deve loping software for the system. Identifying these types of contributions has been made based on extensive review of literature experience of working on one of CWNs projects \( the Omaha Wireless\, and discussions with leaders of CWNs during their annual summit. Seven judges tested the relevance of these questions to our subject  4  The collective actions in the domain of CWNs  We received 41 responses representing 28 CWNs from different parts of the world. We eliminated the incomplete answers. Around 77 percent of these networks do not charge users for Internet access Following is a discussion of the collected data about forms of collective actions and cooperation in the domain of CWNs  4.1 Money donations  This factor measures the amount of money donations the project received from community members business partners, foundations, technology vendors   1   The International Summit for Community Wireless Networks was held in Washington, DC, U.S., May 28 th to the 30 th 2008. Its objective was to explore the opportunities and cha llenges of CWNs  municipalities, and other donors. Our discussions with community leaders during the summit revealed that money donation is a key factor for developing common and free wireless networks, particularly in rural and underserved areas           0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Volunteers Donors Advocates Paid Other     About 13 percent of survey respondents donated money to build the system, as shown in Figure 1. Table 1 shows the amounts of money donations that investigated projects received. For instance, the AirStreem network received $10,000 of donations. Pretoria Wireless received $3,000 in donations  4.2 Hardware donations  Hardware donations are an important form of contribution by partners and community members to build low-cost CWNs [1, 14, an e as u r ed t h is factor by the number of used or new PCs, routers access points that have been donated for the project Table 1, column 7, shows the donated PCs or access points that projects received. For instance, Nepal Wireless received 50 PCs as a donation. Donated hardware was important in building CUWiN, Austin Wireless, the Omaha Wireless network, and many others. Hardware donors may include community members, technology vendors, local businesses, IT recycling programs, and others. For instance, the New Orleans network was built using donated equipment after Hurricane Katrina in order to connect survivors with relatives and assist with rescue activities [14  Cisco Incorporation donated two access points to the OmahaWireless project. Recycling programs \(e.g., Dell IBM, and HP\perate in these initiatives. Moreover some CWNs \(e.g., NYC Wireless, Omaha Wireless and Austin Wireless\ facilitate recycling used PCs for needy community members to enable them to use the system  Figure 1: The contributors of CWNs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Table 1: Forms of contributions of communities in developing CWNs CWN Time Money Tech. Sup. Sharing Hardware OSS 1 Court Housing Co-op 1 200 1 2 2 0 2 SeattleWireless 20 5,000 5 20 0 0 3 AirStream 50 10,000 0 0 0 0 4 Bristol Wireless 100 100 100 0 0 0 5 Keur Sedaro 3 30 2 5 0 0 6 Pretoria Wireless 0 3,000 0 0 0 0 7 Cstle Square WiFi 65 60,000 115 0 0 0 8 WUG 100 50,000 24 6 1 0 8 Cape Town Wireless 4 3,895 40 6 20 1,000 9 Red Libre De Ometepe 5 30000 2 2 30 50,000 10 Jawug 2 389 2 30 NA 0 11 NYCwireless 2 0 2 4 0 0 12 Inveneo 7 0 10 NA NA 0 13 Zgwireless 20 0 20 100 3 0 14 Nepal Wireless 10 30,000 10 25 50 10,000  4.3 Volunteerism  This category refers to the contributions of community volunteers in terms of time and labor to build and operate the network [1, 14, and Ef f o rts of  volunteers are very important in order to obtain the necessary political and social support for the project and help in fundraising events. They also explore community assets, recruit participants, and explore possible locations for installing the infrastructure. We measured this factor by percentage of volunteers to the total number of respondents as presented in Figure 1 the number of weekly volunteered hours, Table 1, and the number of monthly meetings held by the group as shown in Table 2. About 51 percent of the respondents are volunteers and 15 percent are advocates of these networks, as illustrated in Figure 1. The number of volunteers in the 28 investigated projects is 330, with an average of 11 volunteers for each project. The third column in Table 1 shows the total voluntary hours per week for selective projects. For instance, volunteers give 20 hours per week for SeattleWireless and 50 hours for AirStream. Table 2 shows the number of monthly meetings held by the participants. Participants of Funkfeuer met 10 times during the month before conducting the survey. The Cape Town Wireless community met twice that month. Scholars consider purposeful meetings as a form of social capital Practitioners note that the need for volunteers usually decreases after the implementation phase. In addition, after the implementation of the project managing volunteers may become very difficult   4.4 Node sharing  Node-sharing refers to the type of cooperation in which community members share their nodes \(e.g access point or router\with their neighbors to expand the network. They may share their node for free or divide the cost among members. In this case community members are investors, owners, and managers of the network. In other words, these networks are an aggregation of Wi-Fi hotspots owned by community members and local businesses. We measured this facet of cooperation by the number of community members who share their access points with their neighbors. The sixth column in Table 1 shows that the number of individuals who share their access points with others is 30 in the Jawug network and 25 in Nepal Wireless. The NYC Wireless \(New York, U.S.\d the B.C. Wireless project \(British Columbia, Canada\d many others are built on the notion of node-sharing The main advantage of this form of cooperation is reducing the implementation and operation costs of the network, since node owners invest in the network and manage it. In addition, node-sharing builds the sense of community ownership A similar form of cooperation is node-hosting  where network leaders negotiate with an individual or a business to host a node in order to cover a specific area It is important to install the system facilities \(e.g routers, antennas, towers\ specific venues \(e.g., tall buildings, light poles, central buildings\n order to provide good coverage [1, 14 n odeh os ti n g  t h e  host neither owns nor manages the node, unlike the case of node-sharing process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Table 2: Meetings per month  CWN Times 1 Funkfeuer 10 2 Court Housing Co-op 3 3 SeattleWireless 0 4 Champain-Urbana 10 5 OmahaWireless 0 6 AirStream 0 7 Faithful 5 8 OpenGermania 0 9 Pretoria Wireless 0 10 WUG 3 11 Cape Town Wireless 2 12 Nepal Wireless 4 13 Red Libre De Ometepe 15 14 Jawug 5 15 NYCwireless 0 16 Personal Telco 8 17 Netequaty 10 18 Inveneo 2 19 Dharamsala Wireless 3 20 ZGwireless 5   4.5 Developing Open Source Software \(OSS   Another driving factor for CWNs is using free software and open source hardware to build the network 14 and C W Ns requ ire af f o rdable tech n i cal  solutions. In fact, CWNs have been seen as an outgrowth of the free OSS community. Similar to OSS groups, technology developers and advocates of CWNs cooperate and develop software and hardware for the system and homebuilt hardware and share it with other nonprofit CWNs [14, an o r in s t an ce th e y  developed CUWiNware software, Postnuke, the cantenna antenna, FreeBSD, RONJA, Meraki Mini, and Fonero router. Such products have reduced the implementation and operation costs of Seattle Wireless NYC Wireless, Austin Wireless, Wireless Leiden, and many others. It is not easy to measure this factor because of the difficulty to track contributions of individuals in developing OSS. Therefore, we measured this construct by the estimated market value, in U.S dollars, of the OSS used in building the system. For instance, they saved Air-Stream $10,000 and Cape Town Wireless $1,000, as shown in Table 1     4.6 Technical support  This form of cooperation refers to the technical support, troubleshooting, and training that community members provide to the network. The development and sustainability of these networks depend, in large part on the availability of voluntary technical support from community members and partners [14, 19, and 27  This measure reflects the cognitive contributions of the community in supporting the project. We used two measures to assess this factor: \(1\e weekly hours that community members contribute in troubleshooting or maintaining the network as shown in Table 1, \(2\ and the willingness of community members to help if technical support is needed as presented in Table 3 Table 3 shows that 65.8 percent of respondents say it is very likely that participants will help when there is a technical problem. Another 18.4 percent are somewhat likely to help. This means that the cognitive contribution of the community is very high in these projects The most important technical events are nodeconstruction parties where community activists network operators, students, computer geeks, and others cooperate to build a new node [14, and 27 T h ere are  other collective actions achieved through nodeconstruction parties such as i  Boosting the publicity of the project ii  Educating the community about project issues and benefits iii  Creating a sense of community ownership that empowers volunteerism iv  Sharing knowledge and technical expertise; and v  Strengthening social ties among members The lessons learned in this regard show that it is difficult to recruit skillful volunteers in developing societies. Therefore, these networks \(e.g., Wireless Ghana and Champaign-Urbana\ usually provide training to volunteers and network users to bridge this gap   Table 3: The willingness to help in technical issues  Participants Very likely 65.8 25 Somewhat likely 18.4 7 Neither likely or unlikely 13.2 5 Somewhat unlikely 0 0 Very unlikely 2.6 1   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Eighty percent of the investigated projects provide free basic computer training to volunteers and network users; and this is another form of collective actions achieved in the domain of CWNs. However, we will discuss it when we address the benefits of community members incurred from their participation. The difference between this type of collective action and developing OSS is that the first is embedded in the local community, while OSS contributions may involve volunteers from outside the local community Therefore, technical skills could be inputs to build the system or one of its outputs. That is why we separate this cognitive collective action from traditional volunteerism of manpower and time  5  Linking CWNs collective actions to the social capital concept  In Figure 2, we proposed a framework that encompasses the collective actions achieved in the domain of CWNs and their relationship with social capital. It shows that the norms, social networks, and embedded resources in communities fuel voluntary work, money donations, node-sharing, and hardware donations in order to build and operate the network  T a ble 4 lin k s t h ese col l ectiv e actions to related  mainstream dimensions of social capital attributed by scholars   Although community contributions take many forms, each of these forms has two characteristics in common: \(1\dividuals acting in isolation cannot achieve these collective actions; instead, they create new associations and networks that contribute for the community cause or public good. \(2\uch social structures produce or reproduce technical skills, spare time, used hardware and other resources to build the network. Therefore, we argue that the contributions of communities to the development of these networks are also collective actions, particularly when we consider that CWNs have been described as commons collective actions p e r ativ e actions 24], o p en  infrastructu d pu bli c  w i reles s n e t w or k s 29 CWNs create new opportunities, broaden perspectives stimulate new ideas, and build friendships and leadership. In addition, most of these CWNs do not charge users for Internet access We argue that these collective actions are driven by the social capital embedded in the community for three reasons: \(1\WNs generate social capital; \(2 collective actions and cooperation are achieved only when sufficient social capital exists in the community  d \(3 o cial capital bo os ts  C W Ns [7]. Ou r w o rk provides specifics on the role of social capital in boosting CWNs when we identify and describe community contributions in this regard Volunteerism is the spirit of social capital [8, 26  and the fuel of CWNs as well [1, 14, and It is a  form of cooperation that is embedded in the community, not in single individuals. Volunteers contribute information, time, and effort to build a network that serves the community at large The cooperation of node-sharing and node-hosting are embedded in the community and they are a form of civic engagement. These types of cooperation require intense face-to-face communications and negotiations with property owners to convince them to host a node or share their nodes with others. In addition, they require trust between community members. Moreover they build the sense of community and this is the sprit of social capital, particularly its structural and relational dimension Money and hardware donors give because of the trust and reciprocity they expect from community members. According to Lin, social capital is an aggregation of valued resources \(e.g., economic political, cognitive, cultural, or social\bedded in social structures                  Norms, social ties, and embedded resources in social networks that facilitate collective actions  CWNs  Volunteerism   Mone y donation OSS Node-sharin g   The contribution of social capital in the creation of CWNs  Hardware donation Figure 2: The contributions of social capital in the creation of CWNs Tech. su p  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


Table 4: Linking CWNs collective actions to social capital dimensions Collective action Social capital dimension Volunteerism Collective actions and cooperation inf orm ation em bed d ed resources or purposive act s t ruc tural  12  Money and hardware donations Collective actions and cooperation ela tion al 12 em be dded resources or purposive act  Node-sharing Collective actions and cooperation em bedd ed r eso urce s or purposive actions ela tion a l 12  OSS and technical support Collective actions and cooperation em bedd ed r eso urce s or purposive actions inf orm ati on [26 c ogn iti ve 12    Coleman believes that acquiring information necessary to facilitate actions is costly w e v e r  sharing information with people reduces the cost of acquiring it. He emphasizes that such information is a form of social capital. Accordingly, the information technical expertise and other cognitive contributions of communities \(e.g., developing OSS and hardware, and providing technical support\ building CWNs are outcomes of social capital in the community. These outcomes are driven by the social relationships and cognitive dimensions of social capital that have been attributed in [8, 12, an e y als o co n t ribu te to t h e  overall collective action which is the creation of CWNs This is the spirit of the social capital concept as discussed earlier. In general, community engagement and voluntary groups lie at the heart of the social capital concept [8 and 26  Coleman states that social capital is embedded in social networks and achieves certain actions that could not be achieved without it T h es e are th e ex ac t properties that apply to the contributions \(e.g volunteerism, money and hardware donations, nodesharing, developing OSS\ of community members to build CWNs as shown in Figure 2 and Table 4 The proposed framework could be modified to include or exclude specific facets of community contributions or collective actions to reflect social settings. Although we separate these six dimensions of collective actions analytically, we recognize that some of them are highly interrelated such as volunteerism and technical support. We have coded them into different factors for the purpose of simplicity and for helping researchers control and measure these factors in the future  6. Implications for practice and research   In this research study, we have identified and attributed the collective actions and cooperative activities that contribute to the development of CWNs They include volunteerism, money and hardware    donations, OSS contributions, and node-sharing We have identified these actions separately because, we believe, they represent important potential set of resources for developing CWNs. These resources have not yet discussed either in the mainstream literature of the outcomes of social capital or in the literature of CWNs We provided evidence to show the role of these types of collective actions and cooperation in the development of CWNs. While volunteerism, donations and engagement in community issues are the essence of social capital as indicated by scholars, these types of resources are also essential for the development of common CWNs that provide free Internet access. We have focused on the functional aspects of social capital or the collective actions it can achieve in the realm of CWNs. This study has the following practical implications  i  Operationalizing the social capital embedded in the community is important for developing selfsustainable CWNs ii  It is important to base the adopted implementation model on the potential contributions of the community. This is important in order for these grassroots networks to be sustainable and mature  The primary intellectual contribution of this study lies in describing the creation of CWNs within their social context. While the literature shows that community networks, and the Internet in general, create social capital, we showed that social capital contributes to the creation of CWNs. In addition, this work improves our understanding of the social capital concept and its potential outcomes in the digital domain The proposed framework is a first step towards addressing the dual causality between social capital and CWNs This framework could be used to guide future work on this topic It would help researchers to address relevant issues, determine proper unit and level of analysis, and identify future research in this contemporary area. In particular, it would help researchers to answer questions related to who, what how, and why, when addressing community Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


contributions in CWNs. For instance, who are the main contributors of CWNs and what are their benefits? Why do community members contribute to CWNs? What are the main management issues? How can we aggregate and measure their tangible and intangible contributions and benefits The main limitation of this framework is the difficulty of aggregating the tangible and intangible contributions of the community in order to assess their contributions in the total cost of the project. Another limitation is the difficulty to assess the contribution of each of the discussed collective action in the overall implementation and operation costs of the network In our analysis, we pointed out the important facets of collective actions and cooperation, rather than review such actions thoroughly. We will expand this multidisciplinary study in the future to empirically test the relationship between the collective actions in the domain of CWNs and other dimensions of social capital. We will also investigate the role of these networks in creating human capital and physical capital  7  Conclusion  The evolution of CWNs shows the significance of social capital embedded in communities and its role in boosting digital inclusion. We proposed a framework that encompasses the role of collective actions and cooperation in the creation of CWNs. These collectives include OSS, money donations, providing technical expertise, voluntary work, node-sharing, and hardware donations. We attributed these collective actions as outcomes of the social capital embedded in the communities This study improves our understanding of the capabilities of social capital, specifically in the digital domain. It shows that social capital constitutes a valuable resource for community development, taking advantage of digital innovations. The relationship between CWNs and social capital is expected to gain more attention from the scientific community. This is mainly due to the explosive growth of groups and communities that develop hardware and software products for the public use  8. Acknowledgement  9.  References   1 A. Abdelaal and H. Ali Typology for Community Wireless Network Business Models Proceedings of the Thirteenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, August 9-12th, Keystone, Colorado, USA 2007 2 J. C o le m a n Social Capital in the Creation of Human Capital American Journal of Sociology, V94, 1988 3 M.H. Huy s m a n a nd V  W u lf  Social Capital and IT current debate and research MIT Press: Cambridge 2004 4 J  D a m s ga a r d, M. A  P a ri k h a nd B  Ra o Wireless commons perils in the common good Communications of the ACM 49\(2\: 104-109, 2006 5 B. Jose ph Social capital, Community, and Public Libraries: An examination into how coffee and wireless internet access can increase our quality of life A Master s Paper for the M.S. in L.S degree. April, 2006 6 A  K a v a na ug h, a n d S  P a tte rs o n   the Impact of Community Computer Networks on Social Capital and Community Involvement American Behavioral Scientist, Vol. 45, No. 3, 496-509, 2001 7 L  Sim p son Community Informatics and Sustainability Why Social Capital Matters the Journal of Community Informatics, Vol. 1, Issue 2, pp. 102-119, 2005 8 N. L i n Building a network theory of social capital  Connections 22 \(1\:28-51, 1999  M  M a nd viw a lla, A  Jain J. Fesen m aier, J. Sm ith  P   Weinberg, and G. Meyers Municipal Broadband Wireless Networks: Realizing the Vision of Anytime Anywhere Connectivity in the Communications of the ACM, 2006 10 P   M o ran Structural vs. Relational Embeddedness Social Capital and Managerial Performance Strategic Management Journal, 26: 1129 1151 \(2005 1 A  Qu an Haase  an d B W e ll man   how does the Internet Affect Social Capital IT and Social Capital November 12, 2002 12 J. Na ha pie t a nd S  G hosha l  S oc ia l c a pita l, inte lle c t ua l  capital, and the organizational advantage." Academy of Management Review 23 \(2\, 1998, 242-266 13  P. Re s n ic k  Be y ond B o w ling T o g e the r Soc i o T e c hnic a l  Capital. In J. M. Carroll \(Ed\. HCI in the New, 2002 14 P Q u in n Community Wireless and the Digital Divide  Center for Neighborhood Technology, November 2006 15 E   Vo s Reports on Municipal Wireless and Broadband Projects March 2005 Report, from www.muniwireless.com 16 J. W illia m s F. Slig o, a nd C. W a lla c e  Free internet as an agent of community transformation Journal of Community Informatics, Vol 2, No 1, 2005 17 M. W oolc o c k  Social Capital and Economic Development: Toward a Theoretical Synthesis and Policy Framework Theory and Society, Vol. 27, No. 2 April, 1998, pp. 151-208 1 M   Bi n a and G  M  G i a g l i s   Unwired collective action Motivations of wireless community participants In Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Mobile Business \(ICMB\ne 26-27 2006 19 R  D r une n  J  v a n K o olha a s H  Sc hu urm a ns a nd M  Vijn Building a wireless community network in the Netherlands USENIX/Freenix Conference, June, 2003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


20 R. M. Du ro n and C. E  Garc a  Returns from Social Capital in Open Source Software Networks accessed September 5, 2008, from http://www.business.mmu.ac.uk/emaee/papers/49Garcia Mendez-Duron.pdf 21 A  A bde la a l a nd H  A li A Graph Theoretic Approach for Analysis and Design of Community Wireless Networks to appear in Proceedings of the Thirteenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, 14-17th August, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, 2008 22 B  R a o, a nd M P a rik h   Wireless broadband drivers and their social Implications Technology in Society Vol 25, November, 477 489, 2003 23 A  H a rs  a nd S. O u  W ork i ng f o r f r ee  Motiv a tions f o r participating in open-source projects," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 6 \(3\, 25-39, 2002 24 C. Sa ndv ig  An Initial Assessment of Cooperative Action in WiFi Networking Telecommunications Policy, 28, 2004, pp. 579-602 25 Cis c o I n c  Municipalities Adopt Successful Business Models for Outdoor Wireless Networks accesses February 28, 2007, from ttp://www.cisco.com/en/US/netsol/ns621/networking_sol utions_white_paper0900aecd80564fa3.shtml 2 C G r o o t aert  D Nara y a n   V  N Jon e s V  N Jo n e s and M. Woolcock Measuring Social Capital: an Integrated Questionnaire accessed January 5th, 2008, from http://povlibrary.worldbank.org/files/11998_WP18Web.pdf 27 S  Mei n rat h  Community Wireless Networking and Open Spectrum Usage: A Research Agenda to Support Progressive Policy Reform of the Public Airwaves The Journal of Community Informatics, Vol. 1, issue 2, pp 204-209, 2005 28 D  H  S h in a n d  M Ve nk a t e s h Analysis of the Development of Kutztown Community Network  Proceedings of the Proceedings of the 41st A nnual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2008 29 C Mid d le to n, G  L ong f o rd, A  Cle m e n t a nd A  B. Potte r  ICT Infrastructure as Public Infrastructure: Exploring the Benefits of Public Wireless Networks the proceedings of the 34th Research Conference on Communication, Information and Internet Policy, 2006    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


target item falls in TH category. To improve effectiveness of a segment attack, we select filler items from the set of items which are highly rated by those users who have rated target item at a higher Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 scale. The strategy used is similar to Strategy IH Filler items are selected the way explained in section 6.2  8. Experimental evaluation and discussion  We performed the experimental evaluation of our strategies on the publicly available MovieLens data set [8]. This is the most widely used dataset in recommender systems research. MovieLens consists of 100,000 ratings made by 943 users on 1682 movies. Each user in the data set has rated at least 20 movies and each movie has been rated at least once A timestamp value is associated with each user movie, and rating combination. The data set also contains information on the demographic detail \(age sex, occupation, and zip code information \(genre and release date The ratings are made in a scale of 1 to 5, where 5 indicate extreme likeness for an item and 1 dislike We evaluated effectiveness of the proposed strategies on user-based and item-based collaborative algorithm. For similarity calculation and prediction in user-based CF algorithm, equations 1 and 2 stated in section 3 were used. Similarly, equations 3 and 4 stated in section 3 were used for computing similarity and prediction value for item-based CF algorithm We used a neighborhood size of k = 20 for prediction calculation. Case amplification value of 10 was used while calculating correlation and only positive correlations values were considered for computing predictions To conduct our evaluation, we selected a sample 20 items. Out of the 20 items, 10 items belonged to TL  category while remaining 10 items to TH category All the 20 items were selected randomly from a larger set of items belonging to each category. We also randomly selected a sample of 50 target users Target users selected were those who have never rated any of the 20 test items. Each of the target items was attacked individually and the prediction shift was calculated by averaging the prediction shift observed for each user. The final prediction shift for the attack is the average prediction over all items used in the test. Equation 6 was used to calculate the metric For implementation of segmented attack we followed the same guidelines as stated in [3]. Horror segment was selected as the target segment. Five of the most popular horror movies were selected to represent the segment. These five movies selected formed the selected item set in the attack profiles constructed. The five movies are Alien, Psycho, The Shining, Jaws, and The Birds. Users who have given a rating of 4 or 5 to at least any 3 of the five movies were identified as the target segment against which the attack was focused. For calculating prediction shift we selected 50 of the users from this target segment to form the test user set. While implementing the segment attack, selected items were given a rating of 5 and the randomly selected filler items were assigned a value 1 All experiments were conducted for ?Size of attack? values 1%, 3%, 6%, 12%, and 15%.  ?Size of attack? represents number of attack profiles added as a percentage of pre-attack profiles. 1% ?Size of attack? implies 10 attack profiles were added to a 


attack? implies 10 attack profiles were added to a system of 1000 genuine users. On the basis of the results reported in [4] that best results are reported when a filler size of 3% is used in an average attack we used a filler size of 3% for all our tests i.e., 3 % of 1682 items which is approximately 50 filler items For attacks against user-based collaborative filtering systems we used six strategies: Strategy UL, Strategy UH, Strategy SUL, Strategy SUH, segment attack and average attack. Similarly, for attacks against item based collaborative filtering systems we used six strategies: Strategy IL, Strategy IH Strategy SIL Strategy SIH, segment attack and average attack. For average attack, filler item strategy used was the same as in an average attack i.e., the mean of the filler item was assigned to it. Segment attack was implemented as explained earlier. Category TL, Category TH Strategy UL, Strategy UH, Strategy IL, Strategy IH Strategy SUL, Strategy SUH, Strategy SIL and Strategy SIH were implemented the way explained earlier in section 4, section 5, section 6 and section 7 respectively. For attacks against item-based CF while selecting filler items from set IF, only items with minimum frequency count of 10 were considered Figure 2 and Figure 3 show the effectiveness of our attacks when calculated for all users against systems using user-based collaborative filtering for recommendations.  Figure 2 shows the prediction shift values of attacks Strategy UL and average attack for items belonging to TL category. From the graph it?s obvious that for items in TL category, Strategy UL outperforms average attack model for all values of attack size. Similarly, Figure 3 shows the prediction shift values for the attack strategies Strategy UH and average attack for items belonging to TH category From the graph it can be concluded that for items belonging to TH category, Strategy UH performs much better than average attack over lower values of attack size. At attack size of 12 % and 15% both attack have similar effectiveness Figure 4 and Figure 5 show the effectiveness of our attacks when calculated for all users against systems using item-based collaborative filtering for recommendations.  Figure 4 shows the prediction shift values of Strategy IL and average attack for Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 items belonging to TL category. Similarly, Figure 5 shows the prediction shift values for the Strategy IH and average attack for items belonging to TH category. From Figure 4 and 5 it can be concluded that both Strategy IL and Strategy IH perform substantially better than average attack over all values of attack size. It can also be observed that our attack strategies are more effective against itembased systems than user-based systems Figure 6, 7, 8, and 9 show the effectiveness of our filler based attack strategies for in-segment users. We observe that for attacks against both user-based and item-based CF systems the effectiveness of our filler based strategies is comparable to the best available attack model for in-segment attacks i.e., segment attack. However, in Figure 8 we observe that filler item strategy SIL performs better than segment attack. Because of the low knowledge cost involved in segment attack, we can conclude that for most scenarios segment attack is a better attack model for in-segment attacks than filler based attack models Experimental results clearly show that our approach of selecting a strategy based on target item rating distribution outperforms the best available attack model i.e., average model. One drawback of 


attack model i.e., average model. One drawback of our attack strategies is its high knowledge cost However, automated software agents can help diminish the cost. One approach that can be used to decrease the cost is to use a subset of users while selecting filler items. For example, in attacks against item-based systems, while implementing Strategy IH instead of selecting all users who have rated target item as 4 or 5 as members of the set UH. , we only select 20 users. Selection of items for set IF will then be performed using the data of the 20 users in set UH Similarly, in case of attacks against user-based systems, while implementing Strategy UH instead of assigning a filler item IF the average rating given to it by the set of users UH. , we assign IF the average rating given to it by a subset of 5 randomly selected users from UH. In future work we plan to experimentally verify the effectiveness of these cost reduction approaches    Figure 2:   Attack on TL category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 3:   Attack on TH   category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 4:   Attack on TL category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8  Figure 5:   Attack on TH category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 6:   Attack on TL category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 7:   Attack on TH   category of items against user-based collaborative filtering system    Figure 8:   Attack on TL category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system   Figure 9:   Attack on TH category of items against item-based collaborative filtering system  9. Conclusion  This paper provides an effective approach towards constructing attack models. We show the importance of target item and filler items in construction of successful attack strategies. Through experiments we show that our approach of intelligent selection of filler items based on target item rating distribution results in substantial improvement over the baseline average attack. We also compare our approach with the well known in-segment approach and conclude that our approach gives slightly improved results. In future, we plan to examine the filler items strategies for other attack models, and also create algorithms to improve robustness and stability of recommender systems against shilling attacks 


systems against shilling attacks  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  10. References  1] Lam, S., and Riedl, J. 2004. Shilling Recommender Systems for Fun and Profit, In Proceedings of the 13th International WWW Conference 2] Mehta, B., Hofmann, T., and Nejdl, W. 2007. Robust Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, 49-56 3] Mobasher, B., Burke, R., Bhaumik, R., and Williams C. 2007. Towards Trustworthy Recommender Systems: An Analysis of Attack Models and Algorithm Robustness, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, 7\(2007 4] Burke, R., Mobasher, B., and Bhaumik, R. 2005 Limited Knowledge Shilling Attacks in Collaborative Filtering Systems, In Proceedings of Workshop on Intelligent Techniques for Web Personalization 5] Konstan, J., Miller, B., Maltz, D., Herlocker, J Gordon, L., and Riedl, J. 1997.  GroupLens: Applying Collaborative Filtering to Usenet News Communications of the ACM, 40, 3\(1997 6] Herlocker, J., Konstan, J., Borchers, A., and Riedl J.1999. An Algorithm Framework for Performing Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of  SIGIR ACM, 77-87 7] Sarwar, B., Karypis, G., Konstan, J., and Riedl, J 2001. Item-based Collaborative Filtering of Recommendation Algorithms. In Proceedings of the 10th International WWW Conference 8] MovieLens data set,www.grouplens.org  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 Current Time \(min  Healthy Failure Expected Just-in-time line Actual Remaining Life  Figure 17. Results of failure prognosis 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 Time \(min Sp al l S iz e  m m 2 Interpolation of spall growth according to feature values 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Time \(min Fe a tu re V a lu e    Interpolation of feature value with noise Interpolation of feature vlaue snapshot with ground truth data 11 CONCLUSIONS This paper shows that enhancements to diagnostic techniques are desirable as well as attainable additions to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS particularly in the case of rotorcraft component monitoring Enhancements like those presented support CBM efforts primarily in two ways: reduce the sensitivity of diagnostic processes to both signal noise and variations in environmental and operating conditions, and improve the performance of detection systems as well as the task of fault identification \(e.g., severity quantification instantiation of reliable prognostics Representative examples, motivated by the interest of the U.S. Army in transitioning from time-based \(using TBO definitions drive train bearing, illustrates the potential benefits of 


pursuing an integrated approach to diagnostics and prognostics, combining technologies for enhanced data preprocessing, advanced diagnostic-support algorithms, fusion at the sensor/feature levels, and an adequate framework for false alarm mitigation and uncertainty management. An architecture for achieving such integration is presented, with emphasis on supporting a robust performance of diagnostics operations, even in the presence of such kinds of disturbances as those observed in data acquired by HUMS vibration sensors. The present study also gives relevance to seeded fault because the technologies discussed can integrate knowledge about damage mechanism interactions or physics-of-failure models, as well as make use of multiple-sensor and multiple-feature data sets representative of known fault conditions For this reason, the team behind this project is evaluating a potential opportunity to perform a series of tests on rotorcraft drive train bearings with varying fault severities and under multiple, though realistic, operating conditions Such tests are being planned to provide algorithm/model validations, as well as diagnostic/prognostic performance assessments, in support of providing the U.S. Army with technologies that make detection systems more robust allow for the implementation of prognostics, and extend the useful life of drive train components. Component degradation testing thus remains as future, follow-up work to the research reported in this document ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work has been partially supported with a cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory under contract number W911NF-07-2-0075. In addition to the primary authors, we would like to thank government and contractor representatives from organizations supporting the Army Utility \(Blackhawk Estes, Mr. Carlos Rivera, and Dr. Jon Keller. This work has also benefitted greatly from consultations with other Army Research Laboratory and NASA Glenn researchers such as Dr. Timothy Krantz, Dr. David Lewicki, Dr. Harry Decker Dr. Hiralal Khatri, Mr. Ken Ranney and Mr. Kwok Tom REFERENCES 1] Branhof, R.W., Grabill, P., Grant, L., and Keller, J.A  Application of Automated Rotor Smoothing Using Continuous Vibration Measurements  American Helicopter Society 61st annual forum, Grapevine, Texas June 1  3, 2005 2] Dora, R., Wright, J., Hess, R., and Boydstun, B  Utility of the IMD HUMS in an Operational Setting on the UH60L Blackhawk  American Helicopter Society 60th annual forum, Baltimore, Maryland, May 7  10, 2004 3] Zakrajsek, J.J., Dempsey, P.J., et al  Rotorcraft Health Management Issues and Challenges  NASA report TM  2006-214022. February, 2006 4] Suggs, D.T., and Wade, D.R  Vibration Based Maintenance Credits for the UH-60 Oil Cooler Fan Assembly  American Helicopter Society, CBM Specialists Meeting, Huntsville, Alabama, February 13 2008 5] Baker, C., Marble, S., Morton, B.P., and Smith, B.J  Failure Modes and Prognostic Techniques for H-60 Tail Rotor Drive System Bearings  IEEEAC paper #1122 IEEE, 2007 6] Keller, J.A., Branhof, R., Dunaway, D., and Grabill, P  Examples of Condition Based Maintenance with the Vibration Management Enhancement Program   American Helicopter Society 61st Annual Forum Grapevine, Texas, June 1  3, 2005 7] Zhang, B., Sconyers, C., Byington, C.S., Patrick, R Orchard, M.E., and Vachtsevanos, G.J  Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of 


Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults  International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, Colorado October 6-9, 2008 8] Byington, C.S., Watson, M., Lee, H., and Hollins, M  Sensor-level Fusion to Enhance Health and Usage Monitoring Systems  American Helicopter Society, 64th Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29-May 1, 2008 9] Engel, S.J., Gilmartin, B.J., Bongort, K., and Hess, A  Prognostics, the Real Issues Involved With Predicting Life Remaining  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 18-25, 2000 12 BIOGRAPHY Romano Patrick is a Project Manager at Impact Technologies. He received a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology specializing in model-based machine health diagnostics and prognostics. He also holds an MBA from Georgia Tech and degrees from U Texas, Arlington and U. Panamericana, Mexico. With career focus on interdisciplinary integration of technologies, his recent work involves practicable diagnostics/prognostics design for complex systems, such as rotorcraft drive trains Past experience includes automation and design for a variety of industrial and government sponsors \(DARPA, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, etc and program coordination at U. Panamericana, and some entrepreneurial R&amp;D Matthew J. Smith is a Senior Project Engineer at Impact Technologies. During his tenure with Impact, Matthew has performed multiple efforts pertaining to bearing vibration analysis, diagnostic and prognostic system development, and experimental study of faulted system reponse and fault progression. Previously, as a research assistant at Penn State and the NASA Glenn Research Center, Matthew performed experimental and analytical oil-free bearing analyses Matthew received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University. His research interests include: prognostic health assessment for bearing and actuator systems, grease degradation modeling and fault classifier development Bin Zhang received his Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore in 2007. He received his BE and MSE degrees from Nanjing University of Science and Technology, China, in 1993 and 1999, respectively. He is a senior member of IEEE. From 2005 to present, he has been a Post-Doc with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA His current research interests are fault diagnosis and failure prognosis, systems and control, digital signal processing learning control, intelligent systems and their applications to robotics, power electronics and various mechanical systems Carl S. Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies. He directs R&amp;D in pursuit of advanced, automated systems health management for land-based, shipboard, and airborne machinery for military and commercial customers. He is Chairman of the Machinery Diagnostics &amp; Prognostics Committee of ASME and a member of IEEE, AIAA, SAE and AHS. He has a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Aeronautical Engineering from George Washington University, and has published over 60 papers, book chapters, magazine and journal articles related to diagnostics and prognostics technologies George Vachtsevanos is Professor Emeritus at the Georgia Institute of Technology and also serves as the Chief Scientist at Impact Technologies, LLC. He directed the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech for the past 28 years where faculty and students are conducting research in fault diagnosis/prognosis and fault-tolerant control of engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial 


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





