html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Web Service  Composition Based on XML Nets  Haiying Che1, 2, Yu Li2, Andreas Oberweis2, Wolffried Stucky2 1School of Software, Beijing Institute of Technology 2Institute AIFB, University of Karlsruhe \(TH chrissieche@hotmail.com, {yu.li|oberweis|stucky}@aifb.uni-karlsruhe.de   Abstract Service Science, Management and Engineering SSME for studying, designing, implementing and improving service systems. As one of the instantiations of service systems, Web services \(WSs distributed computing and system collaboration. Recently, Web service composition \(WSC ly gained attention from SSME community since it aims to provide value-added WSs by combing existing WSs In this paper we firstly survey WCS methods, among which Petri net-based methods are listed. As a variant of high-level Petri nets, XML nets have formal semantics, graphical nature, and the strength in exchanging XML-based structured data. They are very suitable for WSC because messages can be modeled and manipulated as place tokens for message passing, and the labels in arcs can be used to model constraints for WS discovery and selection. Using XML nets for WSC can thus improve WSC models and increase their dynamics  1. Introduction  On the background that global markets are increasingly service-based economies, Service Science Management and Engineering \(SSME an interdisciplinary research area for studying, designing, implementing and improving service systems. To impel service innovation that is a central concern of SSME, efficient and effective collaboration among service systems is needed. Service-oriented computing SOC collaboration. As one of the instantiations of service systems and a mature and elaborate implementation of the SOC concept, Web services \(WSs as self-contained, self-describing and modular applications that can be published, located and invoked across the web Due to constant changes in today?s service-led economies, flexible value-adding business processes that dynamically combine and arrange service systems as process activities are strongly needed to increase productivity and efficiency. From this point of view Web service composition \(WSC search field of SSME since it aims to provide valueadded WSs by combing existing WSs. Efficiently and effectively selecting, integrating and arranging heterogeneous WSs dynamically to create new value-added inter-organizational WSs is an issue of much current attention. Many researchers and practitioners have contributed a lot in this field As one of the proposed WSC techniques, Petri nets are a well-founded process modeling language with formal semantics, graphical nature, high expressiveness, analyzability and vendor-independence [32]. Petri net models can be formally verified and simulatively validated. XML nets [14], a variant of high-level Petri nets, have additional advantages in the description of process objects and inter-organizational exchange of standardized structured data \(e.g., XML documents While some Petri net variants \(e.g., CPN [41], Object nets [17 


nets [17 strengths of XML nets in this field were still not adequately exploited In this paper we elaborate that XML nets are very suitable for WSC because messages can be structured and manipulated as place tokens for message passing which is pivotal in WSC, and arc inscriptions, the socalled Filter Schemas that are used in XML nets to filter and manipulate XML-based tokens, can be used to model criterions or constraints for WS discovery and selection. Using XML nets for WSC can thus improve WSC models and increase their dynamics The rest of the paper is organized as follows: The next section surveys existing WSC methods with comparison. Section 3 focuses on analyzing various Petri net-based WSC methods. In Section 4, an XML netbased WSC method is proposed. Section 5 elaborates how XML nets are used to facilitate and improve dynamic WSC. Section 6 concludes this paper  2. Survey of WS composition methods  To compose Web services, researchers have developed diverse methods from different aspects using various theories and tools Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE In [28] these methods are divided into two categories: One is WSC using workflow techniques and the other using AI planning. The latter generally includes state sets \(all possible states, initial states, mediate states and final states or goals tion relation or rules that define prediction and effects for the execution of each action In [2] the authors distinguish between syntactic XML-based ontology-based syntactic WSC, two main approaches are mentioned The first one is WS orchestration, which combines available WSs by adding a central coordinator \(the orchestrator bining sub-activities. The second approach is WS choreography, which instead does not assume a central coordinator but rather defines complex tasks via the definition of conversation that should be undertaken by each participant. The overall activity is then achieved as composition of peer-to-peer interactions among the collaborating WSs In [16], the classification is more concrete. The authors describe the techniques as template-based, interface-based, logic-based, ontology-driven, qualitydriven, automata-based or Petri net-based techniques In [22], the methods such as BPEL, Semantic Web OWL-S position, Petri nets, Model Checking, and Finite-State machine are listed Table 1. Classification of WSC methods Methods or Standards WSC using WF techniques Orchestration BPEL [24 Petri nets Automata-based \(e.g. Finite State Machine, SPIN Web components [38 Choreography Conversation Specification [41 WSCI [35], WS-CDL [34 


WSCI [35], WS-CDL [34 WSC using AI planning Ontology-based OWL-S [33 WSMO [37], WSML [36 Logicbased Algebraic Process Composition Pi-calculus Situation Calculus [20][21][23 PDDL [7 Rule-based planning - CSSL Composition Service Specification  HTN \(Hierarchical Task Network T h e o r e m  P r o v i n g   e  g  L i n e a r  Logic \(re. [29] [30 The classifications are made according to different criterions. Certainly, some methods overlap each other in some way. In order to give a clear view on most of the methods and standards, we list them in a classification table \(see Table 1 static, dynamic and automatic WSC. In static WSC processes and activities for WS invocation are predefined and unalterable at run-time. In dynamic WSC activities can be abstract and used to call different WSs at run-time according to process context. Automatic WSC has reasoning ability and mostly uses AI planning aiming at automatic generation of process models without human intervention. In dynamic WSC, we distinguish further between semi-dynamic and fully dynamic composition. The semi-dynamic one means that the structure of a composition process is determined at development-time in form of an abstract process including a set of abstract activities. Each abstract activity contains a query clause used to find, select and integrate appropriate real WS to fulfill the task. In this case, only the selection and binding of WS is done dynamically. In fully dynamic WSC, not only Web services are bound to composition process dynamically but the process structure can also be modified at runtime. In this paper we focus on semi-dynamic WSC WSC should satisfy several fundamental requirements: Connectivity, support for non-functional quality of service metrics, correctness, scalability, and in the desiderative situation, automatization. A table \(see Table 2 properties. In order to make the table compact, following abbreviations are made: Con \(connectivity non-functional metrics correctness scalability automatization average high L \(low semi-automatic fully automatic Table 2. Comparing WSC requirements Con Non Cor Sca Auto BPEL  Ave WSCI, WS-CDL  H OWL-S    Ave Full WSMO &amp; WSML    Ave Full Petri nets    L Semi Automata-based    L Semi Web components    H Semi Conversation Specification  Ave Algebraic Process Composition 


   L Full Situation Calculus    Ave Full PDDL  L Full Rule-based planning  L Full HTN planning  Ave Full Theorem Proving    Ave Full As shown in table 2, only AI-based WSC methods support automatic WSC. Among them, Algebraic Process Composition, Situation Calculus and Theorem Proving satisfy the correctness requirement. OWL-S and WSMO &amp; WSML support in some degree the requirement of non-functional metrics. Nevertheless, the main disadvantage of AI-based WSC methods is the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 gap between their conceptual modeling ability and their insufficient suitability for simulation and execution because they focus on generating implementation skeletons that need to be refined into formal specification for execution [28]. Therefore we focus on WSC methods using workflow techniques. As emerging mechanisms with relatively short history, choreography methods do not yet satisfy the correctness requirement In contrast, orchestration methods have already gained rich experience due to the development of processoriented information systems. For example, a lot of research efforts have been devoted to workflow patterns1 that are helpful in the analysis, design and simulation of WSC models Many enterprises adopt BPEL for integrating and assembling Web services. However, BPEL lacks formal semantics, and BPEL models can therefore not be verified directly An automaton is a mathematical model for a finite state machine \(FSM shown in table 2, have in many aspects similar abilities as Petri nets, and both of them have graphical representation. However, Petri nets are in our opinion more suitable for modeling workflows as they provide inherent ways for describing states and behaviors of multiple activities and their interactions, while automata are mainly used to describe states and behavior of a single activity. In addition, using variants of high-level Petri nets, process metrics like time, cost and resource consumption that are used to validate, monitor and improve process models can be easily modeled Web components methods encapsulate compositelogic information inside a class definition that represents a Web component, which can be specified in two isomorphic forms: a class definition and an XML specification described in Service Composition Specification Language [38]. Therefore, Web components methods are specification methods and lack the ability for formal verification In the next section we will examine further Petri net-based WSC methods Many papers use more than one method to solve the WSC problem in order to combine advantages of individual methods. For example, combining BPEL and formal verification methods, the authors in [19 transform WSC models in BPEL into Petri net models for formal verification. In [5], a framework is presented that translates BPEL models first into intermediate representations, and then into verification models using a verification language called Promela, input language of the model checker SPIN which is a finitestate verification tool. In [4] similar work has been done: BPEL models and Message Sequence Charts  


 1 http://www.workflowpatterns.com models for message passing are both transformed into FSP \(Finite State Process notation scribe and reason about concurrent programs  3. Petri net-based WSC approaches  Petri nets are a well-founded process modeling language with formal semantics and graphical nature. A Petri net is a directed, connected and bipartite graph in which nodes represent places and transitions, and tokens occupy places. The main attraction of Petri nets is the natural way of identifying basic aspects of concurrent systems, both mathematically and conceptually Using Petri nets in WS modeling, each Web service has an associated Petri net that describes its behavior and contains exactly one input place and one output place. At any given time, a service can be in one of the following states: Not-Instantiated, Ready, Running Suspended or Completed [8]. Petri net variants are also used to model WSC, or to model in other methods \(e.g MSCs, BPEL for verification. Here we address four WSC techniques based on Petri nets 1. Transforming MSCs into Petri nets: In [13] [31 the authors transform communication protocol model in MSCs \(Message Sequence Charts garded as a popular and intuitive specification language for describing messaging scenarios, into Petri net model for analysis 2. Transforming BPEL into Petri nets: In [27] all BPEL control flow constructs are mapped into labeled Petri nets \(including control flows for exception handling and compensation BPEL2PNML and WofBPEL \(including reachability analysis  ically transform BPEL models into Petri net models 3. Using Nets within Nets: In [1], Nets within Nets is adopted in modeling coordination protocols and workflows. The authors first propose a Petri net model for WS peer, which is able to run any workflow and to dynamically interpret protocols required for coordination. The execution of these protocols allows the peer to integrate functionalities offered by external peers The Linda communication model is used to support the integration among peers. In [6], Nets within Nets is also used to model inter-organizational software processes based on mobile agent systems. The authors translate Nets within Nets into flat nets for analysis. To enhance the flexibility of execution, a weak synchronous concept is introduced. In [17], the authors translate inter-organizational communication MSCs models into Nets within Nets models under consideration of protocol consistency. In [3] WSC is similarly modeled as Object Petri nets that are a variant of Nets within Nets Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 4. Using Colored Petri nets: In [41] CPN model for WS conversation protocols is proposed. The authors model conversation specifications with CPN and verify the WSC process and its conformance to component services conversation protocols. In [39] [40] hierarchical CPN are used to model the interface of each WS and the choreography among them. In [10] a CPNbased model for WSC is built, and an algorithm for translating BPEL models to CPN models is introduced In [26] the authors decompose messages into Meta message, which is the smallest unit of message. They define a message-oriented activity-based CPN model according to relationship of messages and WS behaviors to describe WSs, and use an automatic WSC al 


gorithm to automatically create a specification for composition processes Compared with the above Petri net-based WSC methods, XML nets have additional strengths in describing process objects and exchanging XML-based structured data. In the next section we will explain in detail XML nets and their suitability for WSC  4. WS composition based on XML nets  4.1 XML nets  XML nets [14] represent a variant of high-level Petri nets, in which places are interpreted as containers of XML documents that must conform to XML Schemas typifying the places. Transitions can be inscribed by predicate logic expressions, whose free variables must be contained in the inscriptions of adjacent edges, the so-called Filter Schemas used to read or manipulate XML data objects Based on [15], we define XML net as a tuple XN lt;P, T, A, ?, IP, IA, IT&gt;, where i es, a finite set T of transitions, and a finite set A of arcs connecting places and transitions ii non-empty and finite individual set D of ?, a set of formula and term functions FT defined on D and a set of predicates PR defined on D iii each place iv ma to each arc. The Filter Schema must conform to XML Schema of the adjacent place. Filter Schemas of incoming arcs of a transition may have selective or manipulative filters to read or \(partially going arcs of a transition must have manipulative filters to modify or create XML documents v expression as inscription to each transition. The inscription is built on a given structure ? and a set of variables which are contained in the Filter Schemas of all adjacent arcs. The inscription must be evaluated to true in order to enable transition occurrences A transition in an XML net is enabled \(i.e. it may occur of the variables in the transition's environment if the following three conditions hold: Each place in the preset of the transition contains at least one valid XML document that conforms to the Filter Schema inscribing the edge from the place to the transition. Additionally, places in the post-set of the transition have to be checked: If the transition modifies existing XML documents in post-set places, the existence and validity of these documents must be ensured. If the transition creates new XML documents in post-set places, then the places must not contain the documents to be created. Finally, the transition inscription must be evaluated to true for the given instantiation of the variables, in order to enable the transition. If an enabled transition occurs, XML documents of pre-set places are Figure 1. XML net for hotel reservation singleRoom &lt;= 50 hotel information reservation confirmation reserve hotel confirmation  


 withBreakfastaddress singleRoom doubleRoom price roomAvailablestars hotel id name XS1 confirmation id room address customer namename hotel dateprice payment emaildeparturearrival XS3 roomAvailable : true 1 price singleRoom hotel id name : Ibis FS1 FS3 customer information customer emailname datetel payment departurearrival XS2 customer  FS2 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 read or \(partially variables, and in the marking of post-set places, new XML documents are inserted or existing documents are modified Figure 1 shows a simplified XML net for hotel reservation with XML Schema and Filter Schema diagrams assigned to places and edges, respectively. The Filter Schema FS1 contains element filters \(e.g., ?hotel?, ?price?, ?roomAvailable e.g., ?id?, ?name instantiation of the attribute filter ?name? and the element filter ?roomAvailable? ensures that only information of hotel ?Ibis? with available rooms is selected The inscription ?$single Room &lt;= 50? of the transition reserve hotel? restricts that a single room of the selected hotel should cost no more than 50 Euro per night. The black bars in the Filter Schema diagrams represent manipulation filters used to create or delete XML documents in this context. The rectangles with an inscribed ?A? stand for element placeholders of the XML data type anyType and can be instantiated by elements of any type If the transition ?reserve hotel? occurs, XML documents are deleted from the places ?hotel information and ?customer information? according to FS1 and FS2 respectively. Because of the element placeholders in FS1 and FS2, the name and the structure of the elements ?address?, ?stars?, ?double Room? and ?with Breakfast? that are defined in the XML Schema XS1 and the descendants of the root element ?customer defined in XS2 are not checked. According to the Filter Schema FS3 and the XML Schema XS3, XML documents are created which may contain element or attribute values coming from the deleted documents, if the document to be created and the corresponding deleted documents contain common elements \(i.e., same 


leted documents contain common elements \(i.e., samenamed simple type elements i.e., samenamed attributes that belong to same-named elements  4.2 XML nets modeling WS composition  Basically, the behavior of a Web service is a partially ordered set of operations. XML nets make it particularly easy to model the flow of \(semi data and to specify operational semantics of control flow. Thus, the definition and description of Web services can be visualized by XML nets. Compared with other Petri net variants, XML nets have the native ability that is suitable for WSC, as tokens in XML nets are XML documents, and Filter Schemas defined on arcs can conveniently and directly control the flow of XML documents, manipulate the XML documents and consequently facilitate message filtering, message passing and dynamic WS discovery and selection Here we divide WSC into two categories: One is based on control flow and the other is based on conversation protocols or to say messages passing. In our opinion control flow-based composition is mainly built within organizations. Inter-organizational WSC is mostly based on messages passing, because it is hard to model control flow without knowing related process details of other organizations. It has been proved by many works that CPN have strong ability to model workflow, so have XML nets as a special variant of CPN the same strengths in this field. The composition of control flows is normally modeled using control flow operators such as sequence, choice, unordered sequence, iteration, parallelism with or without communication, discriminator, selection, and refinement. In 8] Petri net-based and especially in [15] XML netbased formal description of WSC based on control flow operators is elaborated In [15] a primal contribution about using XML nets for WSC is made, but the authors mainly focus on interpreting WS composition operators using XML nets In this paper we will deeply analyze advantages of XML nets for WSC and how XML nets support for dynamic WSC According to [15], an XML service net \(XSN scribes the logical behavior of a Web service with the following properties: \(i place ?i? with no incoming arcs. An XML document with a unique identifier as initial marking. \(ii place ?o? with no outgoing arcs. An XML document inserted to this place cannot be deleted or manipulated by any transition of the XML net. Thus, an XSN is an XML net with an input place variable \(defined by XML elements output place we define the call for the return value. The output place provides information by sending messages as XML documents So XSN = &lt;P, T, A, ?, IP, IA, IT, i, o&gt;, where &lt;P T, A, ?, IP, IA, IT &gt; is an XML net according to 4.1. i and o are the input and output place of XSN, respectively. Web service net \(WSN WSN = &lt;N, D, L, U, CS, XSN&gt; with N: name of the Web service and unique identifier D: Web service descriptions L: server where the Web service net is located U: address for invocating the Web service net CS: set of component Web services XSN: XML service net that describes the process of the composed Web service net We call a Web service net a basic \(non-composite WSN if the set of component Web services contains only the WSN itself, i.e. CS = {N}. In this case, XSN 


only the WSN itself, i.e. CS = {N}. In this case, XSN describes an atomic Web service N, where T contains only ?normal? transitions, i.e., it contains no transitions Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 for binding or calling other WSs. If |CS| &gt; 1, then XSN describes a composite Web service N, in which T contains transitions for invocating WSs, each with a corresponding XSN. In addition, T can in this case also contain transitions for chaining and dynamically binding WSs. Different transition types in an XSN describing composite WS will be explained in Section 5. Operations of the algebra of WSs are described in [8 Due to the fact that the WSN does not only describe the control flow of the service, the description of the WSN concerning behavior, functionality, and interfaces can be directly derived from the XSN [15  5. Realizing WSC tasks with XML nets  In this section we will explicate and demonstrate how XML nets facilitate dynamic WSC with respect to control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling including message passing, and dynamic WS discovery and selection In the context of WSC, XML net elements can have the following additional interpretations  Transitions: Transition in WSC could be of one of the following types 1. WS chaining transitions for chaining and coordinating Web services 2. WS invocation transitions for directly calling Web services 3. Abstract WS transitions for dynamically binding Web services at run-time  Places: Containers of input or output messages of Web services  Arcs: Inputs or outputs of Web services  Tokens: Messages or descriptions of Web services  Markings: Local or overall states of composition processes  5.1. Control flow modeling  As a formal and well-founded process modeling technique with graphical nature, XML nets are very suitable for modeling control flows of WSC processes Sequence, alternative, iteration and other control flow primitives can be modeled straightforward and graphically. XML nets also support hierarchy modeling by refining transitions or places with sub-models. In contrast to other WSC methods without formal foundations \(e.g., BPEL design-time through simulative validation and formal verification to avoid possible structural or nonstructural errors \(e.g., violation of free choice property deadlocks, and unreachability functional drawbacks \(e.g., undesirable behaviors, inadequate rules In dynamic WSC, we firstly build an abstract process model containing abstract WS transitions whose functionalities are determined depending on concrete scenarios and requirements. The abstract WS transitions are often used to dynamically bind and call appropriate real Web services at run-time Figure 2 shows an abstract XML net process model for arranging a travel for a conference. After having received the travel permission, the traveler begins to plan the travel by analyzing his requirements on transport, hotel and conference registration, respectively. In order to gather transport and hotel information from desired information provider, the needed Web services 


desired information provider, the needed Web services with descriptions stored in a WS repository are bound to the process. Besides abstract WS transitions, WS invocation transitions are also utilized to buy transport ticket, reserve hotel, make registration, and check received ticket and confirmations. The dashed outgoing arcs of the place ?WS repository? are read-only connections with selective Filter Schema. The way of how to bind Web services whose descriptions are stored in the repository will be explained in Section 5.3  5.2. Data and data flow modeling  XML nets provide inherent ways for data and data flow modeling. Data objects that move through XSN can be modeled as XML documents whose structure is typified by XML Schemas. Filter Schemas can be used Figure 2. XML net-based abstract service composition process for travel arrangement Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 to select, create, modify or \(partially uments and thus realize data manipulation and flow of the documents. Supported by software tools like INCOME2010 [12], non-flowing process objects, e.g roles, resources, process metrics, key factors etc., can also be modeled in XML and assigned or bound to process or process elements for validation or monitoring purposes In WSC, the flowing data objects are usually messages that serve as input and output of Web services Messages are encoded in XML format and exchanged over standard XML-based messaging protocols like SOAP. Using XML nets, messages as XML documents can be easily modeled as tokens of places and typified by XML Schemas like SOAP Schema2 In the context of WSC, message passing usually refers to asynchronous communication among Web services by sending structured data packages over transport protocols. One problem in message passing is that an output message of a Web service could be incompatible with the required input message of another WS For instance, an output message containing 3 strings as service invocation results cannot be used by a Web service which requires only 2 strings as input parameters. This message incompatibility problem can be solved with XML nets by adding a WS chaining transition as mediator between two WS invocation transitions to adjust their input and output messages. The function of the mediating transition is realized straightforward by Filter Schemas assigned to its incoming and outgoing arcs Figure 3 shows an example to illustrate how XML nets are used to solve this problem. A mediating transition ?adjust message? is added between two WS invocation transitions for reserving hotel and checking hotel reservation, respectively. The SOAP response of the hotel reservation service contains detailed information about reservation id, hotel, customer, room, price, date  2 http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope and payment status etc. The SOAP request for the reservation checking service provided by the hotel requires only reservation ID. To preclude this incompatibility, Filter Schema FS1 is used to deliver the SOAP response to the mediating transition, and FS2 to create SOAP request using reservation ID filtered from the response The mediating transition can also be used to aggregate or disassemble messages. In the first case, it acts as an AND-join transition, which means it has several 


incoming arcs and only one outgoing arc. Filter Schema of the outgoing arc contains variables used in Filter Schemas of the incoming arcs. In the latter case, the mediating transition is an AND-split transition that has only one incoming arc and several outgoing arcs. Variables of the Filter Schema assigned to the incoming arc are used to construct Filter Schemas of the outgoing arcs  5.3. Web Service Discovery and Selection  In this paper we distinguish between Web service discovery and Web service selection. While Web service discovery refers to the process of finding functionally suitable Web services in a set of service descriptions that are unknown a priori, Web service selection deals with comparing and choosing appropriate Web services from a known set of descriptions according to customized preferences, including non-functional constrains or requirements, e.g. quality of services \(QoS WS selection is often used after WS discovery to render more accurate and desirable results, especially when several Web services with the same functionalities are discovered. In WSC, WS discovery and selection are applied to achieve process dynamics by finding and integrating Web services to a predefined abstract service process at run-time Taking advantage of Filter Schemas and transition inscriptions that contribute to process rules of XML net models, we can combine WS discovery and selection Figure 3. Using XML nets to solve message incompatibility problem reserve hotel check hotel reservation reservation confirmation adjust message Information for checking reservation FS2 Envelope BodyHeader ReserveHotelResponse room address customer namename hotel dateprice payment emaildeparturearrival  0..1  FS1 reservationId Header  Envelope Body checkHotelReservationRequest  0..1 reservationId Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 with the definition and \(re process rules. At development-time, Filter Schemas for service filtering can be created according to an XML schema of Web service description, e.g., WSDL Schema3, UDDI Schema4 etc. Transition inscriptions can also be used to define constraints for service selection 


also be used to define constraints for service selection At run-time, the workflow engine for XML nets interprets and evaluates Filter Schemas and transition inscriptions to filter and create Web service descriptions as XML documents. With process monitoring and administration tools which are usual components of workflow management systems, new criterions and constraints for WS discovery and selection can be incorporated at run-time by reconfiguring transition inscription statements and variable instantiations in Filter Schemas  Instantiating abstract WS transition Figure 4 shows a fragment of the abstract WSC process in Section 5.1 to demonstrate the ability of XML nets in WS discovery. To obtain transport information, Web services whose descriptions are stored in an unknown WSDL repository should be discovered The token count of the place representing the repository is supposed to be unlimited. The abstract transitions find transport info service? and ?get transport information? are used to bind and call Web services at runtime. The incoming arc of the transition ?find transport info service? is a reading connection \(represented by a dashed arc nipulative Filter Schema FS2 used to create Web service descriptions is assigned to the outgoing arc of this transition. FS1 and FS2 are both generated according to WSDL Schema  Adapting abstract WS transition at run-time Suppose that the transition ?get transport information? is used to acquire flight information. Variables in FS1 should be \(partly  3 http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl#A4.1 4 http://uddi.org/schema/uddi_v3.xsd es supplying flight information. As shown in Figure 5a the variable of the attribute filter ?name? of the element filter ?service? is instantiated with a regular expression for filtering Web services whose name contains the string ?flight?. This regular expression, together with the Filter Schema, is parsed to XQuery/XPath statements in process simulation or execution. If we use a reconfiguration tool to modify the regular expression at run-time as shown for example in Figure 5b, the transition ?get transport information? can then be adapted to acquire other transport information, e.g., train information. After a suitable WSDL document has been found, FS2 is used to create a new WSDL document for the place ?WS description by cloning the discovered document. Figure 5c shows the diagram of FS2 containing the WSDL root element definitions? and an element placeholder, which is used because the internal structure and details of the document to be created are not of interest in the case of document duplication  QoS-aware WS selection XML nets can also be used to select desired Web services if service constraints like QoS or customized preferences are taken into consideration. As WSDL and OWL-S provide no or limited ways for describing Web service?s QoS, we use in this paper OWL-QoS 43], which complements OWL-S with an ontology to specify QoS metrics for Web services, to demonstrate the ability of XML nets for \(QoS-aware Naturally, other Web service ontologies \(e.g., MOQ 11 e.g., WSLA [18 can also be used for this purpose Figure 6 shows another XML net fragment for the acquisition of transport information by selecting OWL 


acquisition of transport information by selecting OWLQoS documents which describe quality of Web services from a repository that contains 3 OWL-QoS documents discovered previously. Similar to the example in Figure 2, the Filter Schema FS1 is used to read and select appropriate OWL-QoS documents, and the Filter Schema FS2 to create new OWL-QoS documents for the place ?OWL-QoS document?. As Filter Schema provides no means for formulating inequality operators like ?&gt;? and ?&lt;=?, which are usually used to express constraints with parameters whose quantitative values are limited to a certain interval, transition inscriptions Figure 4. XML net for Web service discovery Figure 5. Filter Schemas for Web service discovery definitions 1 service name: \\s*flight\\s*/i c definitions service name: \\s*train\\s*/i b a definitions 1 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 can be used in combination with Filter Schemas to formulate QoS constrains Suppose that the traveler wants to use only the Web services that cost no more than 100 US Cent. The Filter Schema FS1 should then be created as shown in Figure 7. The variable of the attribute filter ?rdf: resource? of the element filter ?owl: onProperty? is instantiated with a regular expression to filter OWL-QoS documents specifying the property ?costUSCent?. To ensure that the maximal cost of the Web service doesn?t exceed 100 US cent, the inscription of the transition ?select transport info service? should be formulated as owl:maxCardinality &lt;= 100?. In process simulation or execution, the inscription is parsed and integrated into XQuery statements using XPath inequality operators  6. Conclusions  In this paper we presented a WSC method based on XML nets, which inherit advantages of Petri nets such as formal semantics and graphical expression. XML nets have additional strengths in the description of process and data objects, and the exchange of XMLbased structured data. The advantage of using XML nets for WSC is that control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling, and WS discovery and selection can be realized using a uniform powerful modeling language. Some uncomplicated tasks, as illustrated before, can be fulfilled without developing or using additional software components or agents. Naturally XML nets can also be combined with other Web service techniques to fulfill more complicated and demanding tasks  7. Acknowledgement  The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for many valuable comments on an earlier version of this paper  8. References  1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching 


1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching Web Service Coordination and Composition by Means of Petri Nets: the Case of the Nets-within-Nets Paradigm?, ICSOC 2005, LNCS 3826, pp.185-197, 2005 2] M. ter Beek, A. Bucchiarone, and S. Gnesi, ?Web Service Composition Approaches: From Industrial Standards to Formal Methods?, Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services \(ICIW?07 Computer Society, 2007 3] X.N. Feng, Q. Liu, and Z. Wang, ?A Web Service Composition Modeling and Evaluation Method Used Petri Net?, LNCS Volume 3842/2006, pp. 905-911, SpringerVerlag, 2006 4] H. Foster, S. Uchitel, J. Magee, and J. Kramer, ?Modelbased verification of Web Service Compositions?, 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 152- 161, 2003 5] X. Fu, T. Bultan, and J.W. Su, ?Analysis of Interacting BPEL Web Services?, WWW2004, pp. 17-22, New York USA, May 2004 6] J.D. Ge, H.Y. Hu, P. Lu, H. Hu, and J. L  Translation of Nets Within Nets in Cross-Organizational Software Process Modeling?, SPW 2005, LNCS 3840, pp. 60-375 Springer-Verlag, 2005 7] Group for program system, faculty of Information Technique University Dortmund, ?PDDL?, http://ls5www.cs.uni-dortmund.de/~edelkamp/ipc-4/pddl.html 8] R. Hamadi and B. Benatallah, ?A Petri Net-based Model for Web Service Composition?, Fourteenth Australasian Database Conference \(ADC2003 CRPIT, Vol. 17, pp. 191-200, 2003 9] S. Hinz, K. Schmidt, and C. Stahl, ?Transforming BPEL to Petri Nets?, BPM 2005, LNCS 3649, pp. 220?235, Springer-Verlag, 2005 10] H. Kang, X.L. Yang, and S.M. Yuan, ?Modeling and verification of Web Services Composition based on CPN 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing-Workshops, pp. 613-617, 2007 11] H.M. Kim, A. Sengupta, and J. Evermann, "MOQ: Web Services Ontologies for QOS and General Quality EvaluaFigure 6. XML net for Web service selection Figure 7. Filter Schema for QoS-aware WS selection owl:Ontology owl:Class rdfs:subClassOf owl:Restriction rdf :resource : "\\s+#costUSCent owl:onProperty owl:maxCardinality   rdf:RDF Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 tions", European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2005 12] S. Klink, Y. Li, and A. Oberweis, "INCOME2010 - a Toolset for Developing Process-Oriented Information Systems Based on Petri Nets", International Workshop on Petri Nets Tools and APplications \(PNTAP 2008, associated to SIMUTools 2008 March 2008 13] O. Kluge, ?Petri nets as a Semantic Model for message Sequence Chart Specifications?, proceedings of INT 2002 pp. 138-147, 2002 14] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, ?Inter-Organizational Business Process Management with XML Nets?, H. Ehrig, W Reisig, G. Rozenberg, H. Weber \(Eds gy for Communication Based Systems, LNCS 2472, pp. 243263, Springer-Verlag, 2003 15] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, "Workflow Services: A Petri Net-Based Approach to Web Services", Int. Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Pa 


Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Paphos/Cyprus, November 2004 16] L. Lin and I.B. Arpinar, ?Discovery of Semantic Relations between Web Services?, IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS?06 17] Q. Lin, J.D. Ge, H. Hu, and J. Lu, ?An Approach to Model Cross-Organizational Processes using Object Petri net?, 2007 IEEE Congress on Services \(SERVICES 2007 pp. 146-152, July 2007 18] H. Ludwig, A. Keller, A. Dan, R. P. King, and R Franck, ?Web Service level Agreement \(WSLA Specification version 1.0?, IBM, 2003 19] N. Lohmann, P. Massuthe, C. Stahl, and D. Weinberg Analyzing Interacting BPEL Process?, S. Dustdar, J.L. Fiadeiro, and A. Sheth \(Eds 32, Springer-Verlag, 2006 20] S.A. Mcllraith and T.C. Son, ?Adapting Golog for Composition of Semantic Web Services?, 8th International Conference on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning KR2002 21] S.A. Mcllraith, T.C. Son, and H.L. Zeng, ?Semantic Web Services?, IEEE Intelligent Systems, March/April 2001 16\(2 22] N. Milanovic and M. Malek, ?Current Solution for Web Service Composition?, IEEE Internet Computing, NovemberDecember 2004 23] S. Narayanan and S.A. Mcllraith, ?Simulation, Verification and Automated Composition of Web Service?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 24] The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards \(OASIS Process Execution Language Version 2.0?, 11 April, 2007 http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsbpel/2.0/wsbpel-v2.0.pdf 25] S.R. Ponnekanti and A. Fox, ?SWORD: a Developer Toolkit for Web Services Composition?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 26] Z.Z. Qian, S.L. Lu, and L. Xie, ?Colored Petri Nets Based Automatic Service Composition?, 2007 IEEE AsiaPacific Services Computing Conference, pp. 431-438, 2007 27] C. Ouyang, E. Verbeek, W.M.P. van der Aalst, S. Breutel1, M. Dumas1, and A.H.M. ter Hofstede1, ?Formal semantics and analysis of Control flow in WS-BPEL?, BPM center Technical Report, BPM-05-15, 2005 28] J.H. Rao and X.M. Su, ?A Survey of Automated Web Service Composition Methods?, SWSWPC 2004, LNCS 3387, pp. 43-54, Springer-Verlag, 2005 29] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Application of Linear Logic to Web Service Composition?, 1st International Conference on Web Services, Las Vegas, USA, June 2003 30] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Logic-based Web Services Composition: From Service Description to Process Model?, 2004 International Conference on Web Services, pp.446-453, San Diego, USA, July 2004 31] M. Sgroi, A. Kondratyev, Y. Watanabe, L. Lavagno and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, ?Synthesis of Petri Nets from Message Sequence Charts Specifications for Protocol Design?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp. 193-199, 2004 32] W.M.P. Van der Aalst, "The Application of Petri Nets to Workflow Management", The Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 8\(1 33] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C Semantic Markup for Web Services?, 22 November, 2004 http://www.w3.org/Submission/OWL-S 34] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vices Choreography Description Language Version 1.0?, 17 December, 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-ws-cdl10-20041217 35] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Choreography Interface \(WSCI 


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





