html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Integrated  Patient Health Information Systems to Improve Traffic Crash Emergency Response and Treatment  Benjamin Schooley Claremont Graduate University Ben.Schooley@cgu.edu Thomas A. Horan Claremont Graduate University Tom.Horan@cgu.edu Michael Marich Claremont Graduate University Michael.Marich@cgu.edu  Brian Hilton Claremont Graduate University Brian.Hilton@cgu.edu Aisha Noamani Claremont Graduate University Aisha.Noamani@cgu.edu  Abstract This research explores how a wide range of automobile crash, emergency responder, hospital and trauma information could be useful to emergency medical practitioners for making decisions about automobile crash victims. We use a framework from prior research to consider, devise and examine emergency medical practitioner use of information systems for improving emergency response services and outcomes. This paper first provides an overview of clinical decision support systems focused on car crash emergency and trauma response. Concepts are grounded in a case study investigation conducted in Minnesota at the State and local level \(Mayo Clinic Operational data from 911 communications ambulance response, and trauma data systems were linked together to demonstrate a data integration proof of concept? to emergency medical practitioners. Interviews and focus groups discussions were then conducted to discuss the current and potential value of integrating interorganizational data for real-time decision support Analysis across these various methods provided a multi-layered understanding which led to a descriptive architecture for a crash trauma information system  1. Introduction  Automobile crashes result in over 40,000 deaths per year in the United States [1, 2]. Research has shown that timely emergency medical response to these crashes can significantly reduce the likelihood of death and disability consequences [3, 4]. The literature has also posited the potential role of health information technology \(HIT medical response times [5, 6] and improving the level and type of care provided to a crash victim at varying points across the inter-organizational continuum of emergency care [7-9]. Prior research by the authors indicated that one key aspect of improving clinical decision making for car crash victims would be to provide a complete view of information about the patient, including the events surrounding a crash incident, and the care provided to that patient from the time of 911 call, through paramedic response through the receiving trauma center, and patient rehabilitation. However, in the United States, such a complete and unified approach is not currently accessible and ?viewable? across the range of care 


accessible and ?viewable? across the range of care providers involved [10]. Little is known, from a consumer standpoint \(i.e., emergency medical practitioners information that should be included, or how to achieve such a vision. This research aims to explore the concept of an integrated crash trauma information system from a consumer health standpoint, focusing on metrics surrounding the entire ?end-to-end treatment of a crash victim.  This paper reviews literature and best practices on the technical architectural components needed for a unified patient view to enable more real-time information for clinical use. It then grounds the concepts through a case study analysis on multi-organizational information sharing in the Minnesota Mayo Clinic trauma system from both local Mayo Clinic practitioner perspectives and State level trauma system perspectives. From this user driven approach, the authors construct a highlevel descriptive architecture of an integrated crash trauma information system  2. Background  Emergency response information consumers need access to accurate, timely and comprehensible information [11, 12]. For automobile crash trauma incidents, patient and incident information is used at various points in time by telematics service providers e.g., OnStar ambulance providers, emergency department Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE personnel, trauma physicians, crash analysts, and a range of medical specialists. However, information from these various practitioner organizations typically remains in ?silo? data systems and are not shared across the incident response and care continuum [10]. For example, patient care information is often collected by paramedics at the scene of an automobile crash, but not always passed forward to an emergency room doctor upon patient arrival to the hospital [13].  As the patient makes his/her way to the hospital, critical data that could aid in saving his/her life is often misplaced, forgotten, or otherwise not reported to care givers [14-16 This article presents research that extends previous work on time-critical information services conducted by the research team [17].  In our prior work, we developed a conceptual model for analyzing organizational, operational, and governance dimensions of performance information sharing across multiple cooperating emergency medical services \(EMS  framework was applied within a comparative case study in San Mateo County, CA and with the Mayo Clinic in Southeast MN [18]. A key finding of the case study work was the need for more focused attention on the information needs of consumers across the entire experience of the crash victim, in terms of the clinical information requirements of emergency care practitioners, information about resources for providing care, and end-to-end performance of the trauma emergency care process We use a process oriented view to begin our analysis  2. 1. Trauma Information Systems for Clinical Decision Support  Clinical decision support has been defined as ?the act of providing clinicians, staff, patients, or other 


act of providing clinicians, staff, patients, or other individuals with knowledge and/or person-specific information, intelligently filtered or presented at appropriate times, to enhance health and health care 19]. This goal has been met with mixed success, in large part due to the challenges of entering accessing, and visualizing information from across a range of information owners [19-21]. For example, in a recent survey, 85% of emergency physicians reported that it is difficult or very difficult to obtain external patient data, taking an average of 66 minutes 7]. Many emergency care practitioners believe that access to patient and incident information will help improve care efficiency, reduce errors and costs, and benefit the patient [5, 7].  But the information sharing challenge remains a significant one to overcome For automobile crash emergencies, much advancement has been made in the use of a variety of information systems towards a more integrated data system. For example, one significant technology is Automatic Crash Notification \(ACN array of sensors, wireless technologies, and software systems that notify a telematics service provider \(e.g OnStar roll-over, or airbag deployment. The automated push? of this data has allowed for decreasing the amount of time that occurs between the onset of a crash and the time that it is reported to 911 dispatch or other emergency services [5, 22, 23]. This technology has been useful for assisting 911 operators to know how many and what type of resources \(ground or air ambulance crash incident. What is less understood is if and how such data could help emergency department and trauma center practitioners prepare for the arrival of a crash victim [5, 24]. Further supporting the critical need for effective response are findings suggesting that crash survivability is increased for those cases where EMS is promptly notified and dispatched [25 Next Generation 911 systems have also been identified as an essential component that enables decision support for an integrated ?voice and data emergency communications system [26]. Toward this end the Hatfield Report [27] provided recommendations toward upgrading 911 infrastructures that can sufficiently address improvements and opportunities made available by Internet Protocol \(IP over IP \(VOIP identification techniques and public safety answering point \(PSAP  NG911 systems working together would provide a foundation by which to pass forward essential patient and incident information to emergency medical personnel to increase a crash victim?s chance of survival [26, 29, 30 Computer-aided 911 dispatch systems and electronic patient care record \(PCR paramedics in the field are also essential components for patient data sharing. Recently, the National EMS Information System \(NEMSIS standard for transfer of inter-organizational EMS data in the ?pre-hospital? setting, was released. As of October 18th, 2007, 50 states in the US had signed on to adopt the standard, the benefit being that standardized protocols have been created for local state, and national level information transfer for more real-time data routing as well as ?pre-hospital research and analysis [8, 31 While NEMSIS is important and essential for enabling real-time information sharing, little is known how a patient?s health data will be used in a 


known how a patient?s health data will be used in a clinical environment such as an emergency Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 department or trauma center setting due to the few implementations to date. It is also unclear how NEMSIS-enabled systems will integrate with hospital and trauma center data systems. Trauma centers themselves have long had issues with information sharing and integration. For example, Mann, et. al 32] note that there is a high degree of variability in terms of data representation and structure across trauma data registry software products To address this issue, the National Trauma Data Standard \(NTDS developing an XML data standard to be used by all trauma registry systems, which will include the ability to link data with NEMSIS. It has been planned for the NTDS to be completed and ready for implementation in 2009 [33 Although these studies have identified a need for integrating data across the spectrum of EMS and trauma services, there have been no empirically established efforts related to data integration across these domains [34]. While many other information systems could be noted herein, including patient tracking systems, hospital availability systems electronic health records, and others, it is important to note previous findings by the authors that indicated the need for an integrated consumer oriented effort to assimilate and utilize data across many disparate health information systems, particularly to support the needs of automobile crash trauma emergency responders  3. Research Approach  Our prior research identified inter-organizational gaps in regards to data access and integration across organizations involved in the emergency medical response process. This process oriented analysis allowed us to discover issues, challenges, and opportunities for inter-organizational information sharing [34]. The research presented herein is aimed at exploring practitioner perspectives on the performance value and use of shared information Figure 1 provides a way to frame the review through considering the end-to-end EMS process, from medical onset through definitive care as displayed below [17   Figure 1. Emergency Response Process Adapted from Horan and Schooley, 2007 An important goal of this research is to uncover how pre and post EMS information could affect EMS process improvements and related health outcomes Our approach was to study the use of information systems to improve emergency response services and outcomes. Based on findings from prior research phases, and recognizing the need for ?on the ground investigation of how research concepts are instantiated in practice, a state and local case study investigation was conducted. The local case study was conducted first at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester MN. The State level analysis was conducted afterwards, which served to validate the local findings. Case study analysis led to a descriptive enterprise architecture for a crash trauma information system.  These phases are discussed below  4. Local Case Study Analysis: Mayo Clinic 


4. Local Case Study Analysis: Mayo Clinic Rochester, MN  Researchers conducted a case study of the local Rochester Minnesota Mayo Clinic trauma information system in Olmsted County, Minnesota between March 2007 and January 2008. The Mayo Clinic service area is largely rural, covering a land mass that includes portions of three states southeastern Minnesota, western Wisconsin, and northeastern Iowa and the population of the communities served range in size from under 1000 to more than 60,000.1 The Mayo Clinic is located in Rochester, Minnesota, which has a population of 94,950. The data collected and context discussed herein focused on emergency responses in the southeastern Minnesota region Building on prior research collaboration with the Mayo Clinic, the aim of the case study was to explore, from an end-user perspective, challenges and benefits associated with the implementation and use of end-to-end information systems across the interorganizational emergency medical response process see Figure 1 framework developed through prior work \(in Figure 1 Researchers collected data sets used across the process, merged and analyzed the data, and then held a series of focus group discussions with emergency medical practitioners to understand the benefits and challenges of using that data and how information technology could be better utilized to support decision making    1 http://www.mayohealthsystem.org/mhs/live accessed on January 19, 2008 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 4.1. Local Case Study Data Analysis  As discussed above, a first step in this research process was to obtain data that linked patient data across the emergency medical process as a ?proof of concept? to demonstrate to emergency medical practitioners who would participate in the qualitative phase of this study. De-identified data was obtained from the Mayo Clinic for the year 2006 to investigate the range and types of data that exist for automobile crash emergency responses, how well the data integrates across organizational units, and to what extent the data might be useful to practitioners if the data were to be integrated and used for decision making Two data sets were obtained: one for ?prehospital? EMS information and a second one for Hospital Trauma information.  The goal was to link all EMS responses for automobile crash trauma patients that 1 Region, 2 operators and ambulances, and 3 St. Mary?s hospital \(Mayo Clinic Set was sorted to locate only those incidents that were identified as ?motor vehicle accidents \(MVA Once the MVA-related data was obtained connection with the Hospital Trauma Data was then made. To enhance the probability of data matches there were several data fields used to construct a match. These included: date, time, age, sex/gender In sum, the research team successfully linked 179 records of a possible 193 


 Figure 2. EMS Total Travel Time  4.1.1. Data Analysis  After data linkages were made, a general descriptive statistical analysis was conducted on 1 EMS response times, and 2 see Figures 2-4 below In terms of EMS response, or Travel Time starting from 911 call until arrival to a Trauma center, we found that 25% took less than 30 Minutes \(46 75% of them took greater than 30 minutes \(133 is significant to note since automobile crash trauma patients are 5-7 times more likely to survive when arrival to a trauma center is less than 30 minutes [4 However, it is not a surprising statistic given the rural population served by the Mayo Clinic. As described later in this article, participants are keenly interested in decision support capabilities to help support the provision of quality care prior to arrival at a trauma center in part due to the nature of long distance trauma transports  Figure 3. Trauma Length of Stay Days  The length of days that a trauma patient stays at the hospital after being admitted is an important outcome measure for both health care capacity and cost considerations. The trauma data allowed for understanding the frequency of length of stay in days at the hospital. As shown in figure 3 below, the total Length of Stay for these patients ranged from less than one day to 84 days with the mean Length of Stay being 8 days Another important outcome score, from an emergency care provider standpoint, is the Trauma Brain Injury \(TBI adjusted level of injury upon the brain, with an almost completely dichotomous outcome of either major brain trauma \(value=1 value=8 The importance of this exercise was to develop a proof of concept? that data could be integrated across data sets and that meaningful information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 could be extracted profiling the entire health consumer/patient experience and outcome  Figure 4. Trauma TBI Outcome Scores  As such, the data analysis began to investigate relationships between pre-hospital performance and trauma outcomes. Additional data has been requested from Mayo Clinic to conduct a more in-depth multiyear analysis. The above analysis was presented to emergency care practitioners that participated in the next phase of qualitative research. Interviews and focus group discussions were held to better understand emergency practitioner perspectives on end-to-end? information sharing and integration The following sections present findings from focus group discussions with end users  4.2. Local Case Study Focus Groups  Three focus group sessions were conducted at Saint Mary?s Hospital \(part of the Mayo Clinic Rochester, Minnesota. The 14 participants represented organizations across both pre-hospital and hospital domains as shown in Table 1 


and hospital domains as shown in Table 1 Focus group questions focused on challenges and benefits to using inter-organizational information and the requirements for system and process improvement. The data analysis process involved transcription of audio recordings of focus group sessions. After the transcription, the text data was organized along operational, organizational, and governance dimensions as prescribed in Horan and Schooley [17], who developed a framework for analyzing inter-organizational emergency response systems. Findings were then resolved into a set of architecture qualities for an integrated crash trauma information system \(see section 5 below qualitative analysis resulted in eight themes, or characteristics, that the case study participants desired from the next-generation crash trauma information system. A summary of these findings is described below Organization Position Mayo Clinic Emergency Communications Center Manager Program Coordinator Supervisor Mayo Medical Transport air and ground ambulance services Administrator Chief Financial Officer Clinical Nurse Specialist Chair of RescueNet Committee Director of Air Operations, Mayo MedAir Regional Process Coach Mayo Clinic Corporate Communications Director Information Technology Director/Lead Analyst/Programmer Department of Emergency Medicine Physician, Co-Medical Director ? Air Physician, Co-Medical Director Ground Department of Trauma Surgeon, Co-Medical Director ? Air Total Participants:  14 Table 1. Mayo Clinic Focus Group Participants  4.2.1. Operational Level Findings  Unified Patient Records ? While integrated medical records and associated software to capture patient information are used by the Mayo Clinic hospitals, the pre-hospital sector \(i.e., first responders, ambulance provider, 911 communications center implication is that the care providers that arrive to an automobile crash incident are not able to utilize preexisting patient information. Nor is that information forwarded on to a receiving emergency department or trauma center. Participants noted how having such information could significantly reduce data collection time on scene and also provide much needed information \(e.g., medications, pre-existing medical conditions, allergies, blood type, emergency contact information, etc increase quality of care provision across the emergency response continuum of care. Participants noted that an integrated system should allow for identification and ?pulling? and ?pushing? of patient information from and to each authorized care provider 


provider Pre-hospital to hospital performance information analysis gap ? The ability to easily share data between both pre-hospital and hospital domains inhibits a complete end-to-end patient perspective on performance. Often, different elements of crash EMS, and trauma information for the same crash incident exist in different databases in different organizations. Participants discussed how the ability to integrate data across these ?silos? would enable clinical and operational analysis and decision making at select points of care across the end to end process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 and for post incident research and analysis. For example, participants noted the difficulty of assessing the relationship between ambulance response times \(a pre-hospital measure hospital measures be very time consuming and error prone. Participants noted that the ?next generation? system should facilitate performance reporting across emergency response and hospital organizations Clinical Usability ? Participants discussed needed improvements to software systems that they are required to use on a daily basis. Improvements included enhanced interfaces that enable automated data capture as opposed to manual data entry and that fit? with their emergency care processes as opposed to ?getting in the way? of their time-critical work However, many challenges are associated with adopting new technology and integrating it with existing data systems. Participants noted that open standardized, and interoperable software systems are key to allowing for continuous enhancements for more user friendly features Data Communications and Standards Participants are acutely aware of the national movement towards data interoperability and standards development. Several participants noted their involvement in many national conferences and policy groups working to reconcile data communications and standards issues.  A number of participants discussed the essential need to adopt standards to allow for enhanced levels of information integration across organizational boundaries  4.2.2. Organizational Level Findings  End-to-end Awareness ?Participants discussed performance and quality improvement activities within each organizational unit \(hospital, ambulance 911 communications, etc stronger business case for cross-organizational \(endto-end advisory board exists that includes members across organizational units, participants noted that the entire multi-organizational system could benefit by devoting more attention on end user level discussion with consumers from one organization conversing with another. Participants felt that conversing in such a manner would act as a training experience on the importance of ?end-to-end? information integration and performance, thus forwarding the system wide thinking and culture to allow for integrated information systems Stakeholder Involvement ? Mayo Clinic personnel discussed the benefits of working with legislative groups at all levels of government in order to find innovative ways to progress trauma care in their region. Participants agreed that taking upon themselves the role of ?facilitator? to involve a wide 


themselves the role of ?facilitator? to involve a wide range of stakeholders had been important for Mayo?s cultural focus on continuous improvement. In particular, taking a ?bottom up? approach to allowing interested practitioners to get involved had helped to gain additional stakeholder involvement  4.2.3. Governance Level Findings  Use of Contracts ? Within the Rochester, MN area, the Mayo Clinic controls almost the entire endto-end provision of service, from 911 medical phone calls, to air or ground ambulance response, to trauma care.  Outside of the Rochester area there is mixed control including first responders as well as subcontracted and volunteer ambulance providers.  As such, the larger, regional emergency medical services EMS throughout the United States, constructed of many different, loosely coupled, and sometimes competing organizations. When outside the boundaries of control, the Mayo Clinic is faced with the financial and technical aspects related to inter-organizational information sharing and the need for contracts to enforce service performance levels. End user participants discussed the importance of these contracts for ensuring information exchange across provider organizations Non-contract information sharing ? Networks of cooperating and collaborating organizations outside of the Mayo system have been established for the purpose of infusing the Mayo Clinic?s philosophy of high quality patient care. Information sharing and service cooperation often takes place without formal binding contracts in place. This is often at the expense of the Mayo Clinic. But the organizational philosophy is that care provision at the Clinic will be enhanced if inter-connected care providers work like they do ? with a focus on quality patient care  4.3. State Level Stakeholder Focus Group and Evaluation  While the local level case study provided valuable insight, researchers also sought to understand practitioner perspectives from the State level including how crash, EMS, and trauma information is currently being integrated and utilized in the State of Minnesota and challenges and benefits to further integration. Moreover, the discussion focused on how to conceptualize the ?next-generation? system that would not only facilitate the analysis of large archival data sets, but also allow for more real-time analysis Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 from a clinical standpoint. A series of 2 focus group discussions and 3 follow-on interviews were conducted with 16 state level Agency decision makers. Participants represented the following organizations: Emergency Medical Services Regulatory Board \(EMSRB State Trauma System and State Trauma Advisory Council Intelligent Transportation Systems Program and Office of Traffic Safety Traffic Safety  4.3.1 Summary of State Level Focus Group and Interview Findings  Participants discussed that in order for a complete end-to-end view of patient and incident information 


end-to-end view of patient and incident information to provide value to a wide range of consumers, there would need to be data assimilated from a wide range of existing organizations and information systems These data sources would include: telematics providers \(data from automatic crash notification systems ambulance providers, emergency departments trauma centers, public health \(e.g., rehabilitation databases e.g., crash analysis reporting systems e.g., traffic management systems illustrated in Figure 6 Participants discussed operational challenges to achieving this vision, including several data collection issues. For example, there is a lack of state level information collection policies. Paramedics also experience difficulty inputting data due to their need to focus on patient care in time-critical situations The lack of wireless infrastructure can often poses system connectivity problems as well. As such, and to the dissatisfaction of physicians, the electronic incident report from the paramedic is typically received well after a patient has arrived to the ED While many obstacles were discussed, participants agreed that there exists substantial motivation to progress towards a more open, standardized integrated, yet secure and private, information sharing environment. Potential benefits discussed included reducing emergency response times improving decision making capacities, improving patient care, reducing crashes, improving emergency response management capabilities, and reducing disability consequences, fatalities, and associated costs across the State For the purpose of research, participants agreed to share data for the advancement of a ?proof of concept? project. Furthermore, participants supported a research oriented and multi-phased approach understanding the magnitude of such an undertaking and long-term vision of integrated data sharing across the State.  Participants noted the research approach should include stakeholders from across the full spectrum of crash and emergency response organizations, integrate with existing state policy programs, such as the ?Toward Zero Deaths program \(a statewide cooperative to reduce annual traffic fatalities to zero of physicians to provide a ?clinical? perspective on data sharing, and take a multi-phased approach to development beginning with architecture development, prototype creation and testing, and demonstration of a ?proof of concept? as an example of the eventual larger imlementation In sum, focus group participants validated case study findings in terms of issues, challenges and potential solutions for constructing a patient focused end-to-end trauma information system  5. The Need for an Integrated Crash Trauma Information Network \(ICTN  Taking the literature review and Minnesota case study work together, findings indicated the need for a more integrated, clinician focused enterprise model for information system design and data sharing Figures 5 and 6 illustrate an overview of the Integrated Crash Trauma Information Network ICTIN account key features that would be included in the system design. This concept is discussed below 1. At the top level of Figure 5, there are a number 


of end-to-end operational process considerations to provide emergency medical care as seen through the eyes and experience of a patient. The top level of this diagram represents a linear work flow of a patient from emergency notification \(e.g., ACN, 911 phone call provision, and arrival and definitive care provision at an emergency department and/or trauma center Based on findings, emergency responder processes may be viewed as dynamic or sequential. But the sequential representation is meant to take into account the patient experience, an important system design characteristic as described by Schooley and Horan [18 2. As shown in the second level \(from the top Figure 5, a multi-organizational view of the system architecture is an essential consideration for the ICTIN concept. As described throughout this paper and illustrated in Figure 6, many organizations are involved in emergency response activities, from emergency notification through care provision. Many other practitioners and organizations are involved in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 crash analysis, public health research, patient outcome research, and other analyses. Therefore, the architecture needs to accommodate the information and data needs of a wide variety of organizations including authorized access to information, while maintaining the privacy and security of patient information. Fortunately, the technology exists to enable these software quality attributes.  How to implement such attributes in a complex large-scale environment is a challenge yet to be resolved 3. Dynamic information sharing considerations are represented on the third and fourth levels of Figure 5 From this analysis, and prior research, a number of information types, or taxonomies, are captured analyzed, and distributed across EMS organizational actors and hardware and software systems. The view represented here is one that would allow for information to be fully utilized by authorized emergency responders \(and information systems downstream? points of an emergency response episode. For example, rather than waiting for a paramedic to click the ?submit report? button of an electronic patient care record, patient information would be dynamically \(and incrementally physicians at a receiving ED or trauma center. To enable such open systems, web services and related information architecture standards would need to be implemented across organizations and information systems so that both ?push? and ?pull? functionality could exist for any and all authorized users 4. End-to-end performance reporting capabilities across organizations and information systems are also enabled through such an architecture. The ability to pull any number of data elements not  Figure 5. Information Coordination across the Emergency Response Process  only benefits real-time clinical decision making, but would also allow for the creation of customized reports for real-time monitoring \(e.g., dashboards retrospective research and analysis. The idea here is that performance analysis becomes a system design consideration at the outset, as opposed to taking the traditional approach of constructing performance reports after the system has been built. As shown in Figure 6, reporting and analytics would be a key component of the ICTIN 5. Additional enterprise architecture characteristics 


5. Additional enterprise architecture characteristics are illustrated in Figure 6. Though alluded to in the above discussion, these include a. Security/Privacy: A standard suite of network software, and data security measures would be implemented to ensure safe transport of patient information in accordance with State and National privacy guidelines and laws Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 b. Patient tracking system: In order to accurately identify data from one system to another, there must be a common data identifier that could associate data with a patient, including vehicle, incident, medical information, care provision, receiving hospital medications administered, dispatched emergency resources, time of phone call, etc. The data would all be linked back to the patient for real-time and retrospective analysis. A patient tracking system would facilitate this core function of the ICTIN c. Directory and Access Services: This would be one or several secure databases that include a listing of all authorized organizations and individuals allowed to access ICTIN information. Individuals would register,,be approved by the managing organization, and then allowed access to certain information based on the information access policies prescribed by the managing body. The directory is controlled by a managing entity to be determined by the network stakeholders  5.1. Directions for Subsequent Phases  While there exists a need for an integrated crash trauma information network \(CTIN a paucity of guidance, literature, and directions on how to achieve such a complex system implementation.  As confirmed by the local and state focus group discussions in Minnesota, further exploration into the potential and feasibility of developing an integrated crash trauma information network would provide an innovative advancement from both a research and practice perspective. More specific recommendations for taking a phased and incremental research approach to move the concept forward are discussed below In our phased approach, several methods are being employed.  A first task would be to validate the Minnesota case studies by conducting a comparative case study review in another state. Findings from a cross-case comparison would be used to outline the parameters for an initial prototype of the integrated crash information system. The prototype would be a simplified ?sample? system to provide a ?proof of concept? and illustrate how crash information could be shared from the moment of impact, through emergency dispatch and response, and then into the emergency room and health treatment services. A key component of this prototype will be the integration of data around the patient. Our straw man system CrashHelp series of interviews and focus groups with significant stakeholders in the process, including departments of transportation, public safety, 911, emergency services, and healthcare. Small data sets from crash EMS, health information systems would be collected and used to develop and populate the prototype to demonstrate its utility for safety decision support and planning purposes.  Feedback analysis from policymakers, planners, public health, EMS, safety engineers, emergency planners and citizens will focus on operational, organizational, and policy 


on operational, organizational, and policy deployment challenges surrounding an enhanced EMS system, including possible benefits from its utilization  Figure 6. Organizations and Integrated Crash Trauma Information Network Services  6. Expected Benefits &amp; Conclusion  The Trauma network would organize the information around the patient, providing a user/consumer centric approach to information design and use. In doing so, the trauma network would extend current EMS systems to include a greater range of information, including information that has been requested by emergency room physicians but often not available. This information is expected to improve not only the timeliness, but also the quality of the emergency response and improve patient care An end-to-end trauma network would allow for more holistic data analysis that can be both visualized and conducted in real-time. Just as private sector operations have achieved benefits through integrated customer systems \(e.g., CRM apply to the victim of a trauma. In this case, the issue is not just better customer service but fundamental issues of life and death  8. References  1] NHTSA, Emergency Medical Services: 24/7 Care Everywhere: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 2] NHTSA, "Fatality Analysis Reporting System." vol 2008: National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, 2008 3] D. Trunkey, "Trauma," Scientific American, vol. 249 pp. 28-35, 1983 4] D. C. Grossman, Kim, A., Macdonald, S.C., Klein, P Copass, M.K., Maier, R.V, "Urban-rural differences in prehospital care of major trauma," The Journal of Trauma vol. 42, pp. 723-729, 1997 5] B. Schooley, T. Horan, and M. Marich, "User Perspectives on the Minnesota Inter-organizational Mayday Information System," in AMIS Monograph Series: Volume on Information Systems for Emergency Management, Van De Valle and Turoff, Eds.: IDEA Press, 2008 6] J. Peters, Hall, B., "Assessment of ambulance response performance using a geographic information system Social Science and Medicine, vol. 49, pp. 1551-1566, 1999 7] M. Jason S. Shapiro, c, Joseph Kannry, MDb, Andre W Kushnirukd, Gilad Kuperman, MD, PhDa,e "Emergency Physicians? Perceptions of Health Information Exchange pp. 700-705, 2007 8] G. Mears, J. Ornato, and D. Dawson, "Emergency Medical Services Information Systems and A Future EMS National Database," in Turtle Creek Conference III, Dallas TX, 2001 9] T.A. Horan and B. Schooley, "Time-critical information services," Commun. ACM, vol. 50, pp. 73-78, 2007 10] Joint Advisory Committee on Communications Capabilities of Emergency Medical and Public Health Care Facilities \(JAC February 4, 2008 2008 11] M. Turoff, Chumer, M., Van de Walle, B., Yao, X The Design of a Dynamic Emergency Response Management Information System \(DERMIS Information Technology Theory and Application December 25, 2003 2004 


December 25, 2003 2004 12] S. Sawyer, Tapia, A., Pesheck, L., and Davenport, J Mobility and the First Responder," Communications of the ACM, vol. 47, pp. 61-64, 2004 13] Institute of Medicine \(IOM Services: At the Crossroads," National Academy Press Washington, D.C. 2006 14] M. T. D. Ye K, Knott JC, Dent A, MacBean CE Handover in the emergency department: Deficiencies and adverse effects.," Emergency Medicine Australasia, vol. 19 pp. 433-41, 2007 15] T. Taylor, "Information management in the emergency department," Emerg Med Clin North Am, vol. 22, pp. 24157, 2004 16] A. Andrew Stiell, Ian G. Stiell and Carl van Walraven Prevalence of information gaps in the emergency department and the effect on patient outcomes " Canadian Medical Association, p. 169, November 11th 2003 17] T. A. Horan and B. L. Schooley, "Time-Critical Information Services," Communications of the ACM, vol 50, pp. 73-78, 2007 18] B. Schooley and T. Horan, "End-to-End Enterprise Performance Management in the Public Sector through Inter-organizational Information Integration," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 24, pp. 755-784, 2007 19] P. Kensaku Kawamoto, and David F. Lobach, MD PhD, MS2 "Proposal for Fulfilling Strategic Objectives of the U.S. Roadmap for National Action on Decision Support through a Service-oriented Architecture Leveraging HL7 Services," in American Medical Informatics Association vol. 14: American Medical Informatics Association 2007 pp. 146-155 20] J. Salinas, McManus, J., Convertino, V., Holcomb, J Hospital Data Warehousing System for Mining of Patient Data," in Ninth IASTED International Conference Software Engineering and Applications, Phoenix, AZ, 2005, pp. 1318 21] L. Carver, Turoff, M., "Human-Computer Interaction The Human and Computer as a Team in Emergency Management Information Systems," Communications of the ACM, vol. 50, pp. 33-38, 2007 22] Battelle Company, "Evaluation of the MAYDAY/9-11 Field Operational Test," Battelle, Maryland July 19, 2006 2006 23] W. M. Evanco, "The potential impact of rural mayday systems on vehicular crash fatalities," Accident Analysis &amp Prevention, vol. 31, pp. 455-462, 1999 24] NHTSA, "Crash Outcome Data Evaluation Systems CODES 2008 25] D. E. Clark and B. M. Cushing, "Predicted effect of automatic crash notification on traffic mortality," Accident Analysis &amp; Prevention, vol. 34, pp. 507-513, 2002 26] NHTSA, "Next Generation 9-1-1 System Concept of Operations \(NG911 ConOps Ed., 2005 27] D. N. Hatfield, "A Report on Technical and Operational Issues Impacting The Provision of Wireless Enhanced 911 Services," Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 2002 28] L. K. Moore, "An Emergency Communications Safety Net: Integrating 911 and Other Services," Congressional Research Service, Washington, D.C. Feb 28, 2008 29] I. o. M. \(IOM crossroads. Washington, DC: National Academy Press 2006 30] N. E. N. A. \(NENA effectiveness, accessibility and future of America's 9-1-1 service. Columbus, Ohio: The RCN Commission and National Emergency Number Association, 2001 31] NEMSIS, "National EMS Information System Helping Unify EMS Data," 2008 


Helping Unify EMS Data," 2008 32] N. Mann, K. Guice, L. Cassidy, D. Wright, J. Koury Are Statewide Trauma Registries Comparable? Reaching for a National Trauma Dataset," Society for Academic Emergency Medicine, vol. 13, pp. 946-953, 2006 33] R. Fantus, Fildes, J., "Deposit the Bull's-eye," Bulletin of the American College of Surgeons, vol. 91, p. 2, 2006 34] B. Schooley, M. Marich, and T. Horan, "Devising an architecture for time-critical information services: interorganizational performance data components for emergency medical service \(EMS 8th annual international conference on Digital government research: bridging disciplines \\&amp; domains Philadelphia Pennsylvania: Digital Government Research Center, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 21] T.A. Pardo, H.J. Scholl., ?Walking Atop the Cliffs Avoid Failure and Reducing Risk in Large Scale EGovernment Projects, Proceeding of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences-2002, IEEE Computer Society  22] T. L. Dinh and T.H. Le, ?Toward an Approach for Modeling Interoperability of Information Systems?, IEEE Research, Innovation and Vision for the Future, March 5 2007, pp.22-28  23] UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical Specification, Part 8 of the ebXML Framework, Version 2.01, Retrieved January 25, 2007 from http://www.unece.org/cefact/ebxml/CCTS_V2-01_Final.pdf  24] UN/CEFACT, ?UN/CEFACT Modeling Methodology UMM  25] UN/CEFACT ?Recommendation 34 Data Simplification and Standardization for International Trade?, Working DraftVersion 6.0, May 21, 2008 26]   UN/CEFACT ?XML Naming and Design Rules \(XML NDR   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





