html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Exploring  User Preference for the Dashboard Menu Design   Aaron Read University of Nebraska Omaha aread@mail.unomaha.edu  Alvin Tarrell University of Nebraska Omaha atarrell@mail.unomaha.edu  Ann Fruhling University of Nebraska Omaha afruhling@mail.unomaha.ede Abstract User interfaces generally rely on a main menu for navigation and orientation.  Therefore, the main navigational user performance and satisfaction levels.   Effective menu designs also help users avoid feeling lost and disoriented when seeking information or finding functionality.  Research on menu design finds that an understanding of users  ability to recognize a menu layout through positional and semantic grouping of menu items helps explain design effectiveness and user preference.  Our research compares an expandable index menu layout design to a framebased \(dashboard positional and semantic groupings of the framebased \(dashboard clients using a live system participated in this study using the Think Aloud usability evaluation method This research is significant in that it contributes to ongoing work in development of effective user interfaces, and in that it strengthens the findings of earlier researchers 1.  Introduction Broadly speaking, Human-Computer Interaction addresses any human interaction with computers whether as developers or as users, as individuals or as groups [31].  Specifically, the discipline of HCI is concerned with the design, evaluation, and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use and with the study of major phenomena surrounding them [3].   Furthermore, HCI proposes techniques, methods, and guidelines for designing better and more ?usable? artifacts [1 The user interface is one of the main components of any interactive computing system.  Indeed, the user interface is the part of the information system through which the end user interacts with the system either physically, perceptually, or conceptually [27 and so helps form most user perceptions of the system.  There are several types of user interfaces natural language interfaces, question-and-answer interfaces, menu interfaces, form-fill interfaces command-language-interfaces, graphical user interfaces \(GUIs strengths and weaknesses User interface design is vital to successful information system implementation.  Information Technology projects invest a significant amount of resources in the design and construction of the user interfaces, in some cases 80-90% of the code of a system involves elements of the user interface.  If a user interface is poorly designed, the user?s effectiveness and efficiency will decrease, defeating productivity gains envisioned for the system. It is therefore important to understand the impact on the user on various user interface designs.  This research 


user on various user interface designs.  This research examines the relative effectiveness of two different designs for the system?s main navigational menu The information system?s main menu is a key aspect of a user?s experience, as it is the means of accessing the system?s functionality [29], and a means for navigating the system. Like other user interfaces, a menu?s presentation consists of several different elements which impact its usability.  These elements can include menu layout design organization,  color schemes, labels, and content User efficiency and satisfaction levels are directly tied to the design of the main navigational menu 43].  Much research has therefore been conducted on considerations when designing a main navigational menu.  A large portion of early menu design research explored hierarchical menus with tree structures of varying breadth \(number of items offered per menu and depth \(number of levels in the hierarchy  19] [20]. This research has found that users generally perform information searches faster and are more satisfied when a menu?s tree structure has higher breadth and lower depth More recent menu design research has focused on user performance and satisfaction with different types of menu designs.  Designs explored include fish eye menus [4], expandable index menus [44], and cascade menus [5] [17] [42].  More detailed discussion can be found in later sections of this paper, but the basic differences are as follows  Fish eye menus present the user with a longer list of menu items in a smaller font with the currently selected menu item magnified  Expandable index menus present menu items which, when clicked, expand to reveal the submenu related to that menu item.  The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3 2009 U.S. Government Work Not Protected by U.S. Copyright structure of menu items and their submenus is presented like an outline  Cascade menus are similar to expandable index menus except that the submenu for an item is revealed in a new window The latest type of main navigational menu is a referred to as a system dashboard, which allows the user to view all the functionality of the system and navigate directly to the desired capability Dashboard menus are distinct from those previously discussed in that they show full system functionality on the main menu at all times, eliminating concerns with expansion, magnification, or cascading windows.  This study compares user performance and user satisfaction ratings between an expandable index menu and a frame-based dashboard menu This comparison is explored through the examination of data collected through a usability evaluation conducted with the user interface of a critical client-facing application.  The associated information system is very complex, with many interacting components and users fulfilling a variety of roles when using the system, and so has a relatively complex and potentially confusing user interface.  Qualitative and quantitative data were collected using the ?Think-Aloud? usability evaluation method, with the data then used to evaluate and compare the two main menu designs Both designs are textually- rather than graphicallyoriented, a constraint imposed by the real world environment of the information system The following section discusses the research on menu layout design which helps to explain the 


menu layout design which helps to explain the differences in user performance and satisfaction between the frame-based layout and the expandable index menu designs. We then present the details of the ?think-aloud? evaluation method we used to obtain our data, followed by an analysis of these findings.  Finally we discuss the implications of our findings for future research 2.  Background We begin by discussing the importance of menu layout design in improving user performance and satisfaction. Important design considerations are mentioned, and then illustrated through a discussion of different layout types.  Additional design considerations relevant to the comparison of the expandable index and frame-based menus are then mentioned, including menu depth and breadth and the concept of semantic and positional grouping.  We finish by discussing how these guidelines suggest that the frame-based menu should be preferred over the expandable index menu 2.1 Importance of Menus In most cases, the purpose of a menu?s layout is to provide the user with a sense of the organization of the contents of the system and the available functionality.  The main menu provides a starting point, an organizational structure to help the user avoid becoming lost or disoriented while navigating through the contents of a menu [9].  A menu?s structure becomes clearer to a user when structural cues are provided [33]. For example, this may include providing a navigational overview similar to a website map, which helps a user to understand his or her position within the navigational structure [13 2.2 Menu Layout Design Considerations To understand how to compare menu layout designs, we present some generally applicable elements of effective menu layouts.  Yu and Roh 42] present three key elements to be considered in the design of a menu?s layout:   1 presentation, 2 flexibility.  A menu?s approach to the implementation of each of these functionalities can enhance or detract from a user?s ability to search for information Menu Item Presentation - The first element considers how menu items are presented.  Different presentations can assist the user in finding the functionality they seek.  For example, a menu presenting items in alphabetical order or in order of frequency of use is likely of greater use than one whose items are in seemingly random order Structural Cues - A menu provides structural cues by allowing a user to see where he or she is in the structure of a menu.  This can be accomplished by providing bread crumbs or by allowing the user to see the parent menus of the current menu at the same time Menu Path Flexibility - A menu may allow a user to ?jump? to a submenu without having to explore all the submenus in between, thus providing a more flexible means of navigating to the submenu These items work together to determine the basic functionality of the menu interface 2.3 Menu Types There are multiple menus layout formats to help guide a user in seeking information.  A few are mentioned here in order to illustrate how Yu and Ro?s [42] design elements can often explain why a certain type of menu will outperform another in guiding a user to information. The menu types discussed here include fisheye menus [4], cascade Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 menus [42] and expandable index menus [44].  These menu types are described in Table 1 below Fisheye menus offer enhanced menu item presentation by magnifying the item currently selected in the list, thereby allowing the menu to provide simultaneous visibility of more items.  This added functionality allows users to find information in a list faster than in a menu design without the enhancement [4 Table 1.  Menu Type Descriptions  Menu Type Description Fish-Eye Holds more menu item in a pulldown menu by 1 smaller 2 item Cascade Similar to pull down menus in Windows.  Each submenu window cascades to a new menu Expandable Index When a user clicks on a menu item, it expands to reveal the item's submenu  Cascade menus offer a user the ability to navigate directly to a lower-level menu item without having to traverse through each sub-menu, therefore providing greater menu path flexibility.   Yu and Roh [42] show that cascade menus outperformed a standard sidebar menu.  Specifically, they show that cascade menus help users find information more effectively because they provide menu layout design elements including flexible access to information \(users can quickly peek at information in a submenu navigational structure more apparent to prevent users from feeling lost \(the position of a submenu item is still part of a visible hierarchy Expandable index menus provide a more flexible navigation structure \(users can ?expand? a menu item by clicking on it to reveal its contents more apparent navigational structure \(a user can better see his or her position in the hierarchy Expandable index menus provide users with additional structural cues by allowing them to see all levels of the hierarchy at the same time.  The design also provides greater path flexibility in a manner similar to cascade menus.  Since the design includes these design elements, users should perform better and be more satisfied with the expandable index menu.  However, these enhancements do not always result in higher user satisfaction and informationseeking performance.  Zaphiris et al. [44] found that users performed better and were equally satisfied with a standard sequential hierarchical menu which had less path flexibility and structural cues.  Other design considerations are needed to explain the differences between the usability results of the Zaphiris et al. [44] study.   The design considerations relevant to this study follow 2.4 Depth vs. Breadth Menus commonly contain a hierarchical structure as a means of presenting menu items. When menus contain multiple levels or hierarchies, the arrangement of these hierarchies into a structure with more breadth or depth can have an impact on user information search performance, perceived complexity, and user satisfaction [14].  The depth vs breadth inquiry began with Miller?s study [20]. [20 Miller found that response time increased with 


Miller found that response time increased with increasing depth, and several studies later replicated these results [6] [14] [19] [43].  Kiger [19] found that both user satisfaction and better performance were associated with greater menu breadth rather than depth.  Norman and Chin [30] found similar results and attributed them to the increased familiarity with menu screens that users experienced when viewing fewer menu screens.  This line of research recommends that menus should be designed so that menu items are presented in menu structures with greater breadth and less depth.  This arrangement better facilitates the user becoming familiar with the menu?s structure 2.5 Positional and Semantic Chunking Another way for users to increase familiarity with a menu?s structure is through positional and semantic chunking.   Positional chunking refers to spatially grouping items, and   semantic chunking refers to grouping items by similar meaning [28].  The idea of chunking? or organizing menu items in a way that has meaning to the user has been found to be a benefit to menu design [37].  The arrangement of menu options often involves inferences made by the user about logical and/or categorical relationships among items [2]. ?Chunking? the menu items in fixed positions facilitates the ability of the user to recognize this information [28]. Niemela and Saariluoma [28] found that both semantic and positional chunking improved a user?s ability to recognize the structure of information.  Frame-based menus also provide visible navigational structure and flexibility, but do it in a way that preserves both the semantic and positional grouping of the items in frames.  When these groupings are preserved, user recognition of the menu structure is preserved leading to better information seeking performance 28].  These groupings act as effective structural cues Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 which prevent the user from becoming disoriented 42].  They do this in a way which allows the user to become more familiar with the menu?s structure as well 3. Comparing Expandable Index Menus to Frame-Based Menus Our study compares an expandable index menu to a frame-based dashboard menu.  We predict that the frame-based menus will be preferred by the users We expect users will have more satisfaction and better performance using the frame-based menu because they will more easily recognize and learn the menu layout and identify the capabilities and features of the system.  The frame-based menu allows all submenus to be presented on screen simultaneously speeding access relative to expandable index menus where semantic grouping must be remembered, as menu items are sometimes hidden.  The frame-based menu also holds menu items in fixed positions whereas items in an expandable index do not remain positionally constant.  This fixed position characteristic contributes to higher user  satisfaction and performance using frame-based menus 3.1 Method Research in the HCI field has asserted for a long time that the study of usability factors is a key to the successful design and implementation of user interfaces [35] [36] [15] [24] [25] [26]. Broadly defined, usability is ? the capability [of the system] in human functional terms to be used easily and effectively by the specified range of users, given specified training and user support, to fulfill the 


specified range of tasks, within the specified range of environmental scenarios? [34]. Specifically according to ISO 9241-11, usability is defined as The effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction with which specified users achieve specified goals in particular environments.?  Other researchers are even more specific, defining usability as ?the extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified context of use? [18 Applied to the field of information technology usability addresses the system?s functionality and the effect of the interface on the user, and identifies specific problems of the design. Usability is evaluated through a form of testing that is applied to the design of computer software, in particular the interface with which users interact [8 Nielsen [25] measures the usability of a computer system in terms of five attributes:  learnability efficiency, memorability, errors, and satisfaction Learnability, efficiency, and memorability are measured by choosing users with different levels of expertise to evaluate certain attributes of the system Novices are used to evaluate learnability whereas experienced users are used to evaluate efficiency Memorability is judged on how easily the casual user can return to the system after not using it for a time and still remember how the system works.  The error rate for the system reflects the amount of errors made by the user over time period.  Finally, user satisfaction is also measured subjectively Usability testing determines whether a system meets a pre-determined, quantifiable level of usability for specific types of users carrying out specific tasks.  A complete evaluation of humancomputer interaction must consider the user, the tasks, the computer, the organization, and the relationships among them [32].  Various methods can be employed to measure usability factors and to quantify the results Often, the methods of usability evaluation are classified according to how the system?s user and computer components are represented in the evaluation process [41].  The two components of the system can be either ?Real? or ?Representational and the resulting evaluation methods are thereby classified into four categories.  Based on all of the classifications, the evaluation methods are organized into four categories Analytical Methods  -- In this category, both the computer and the user are representational.  A cognitive walkthrough of the system is one type of method employed. In a cognitive walkthrough reviewers evaluate a proposed interface in a context of one or more specific user tasks using a mock-up of the interface or a working prototype [40 Specialist Reports -- This category involves one or more people who are not real users assessing a version of the real computer.  It could be HCI specialists who are evaluating the design of a prototype version using relevant handbooks guidelines, or their own experiences.  Typical methods include checklists, guidelines, walkthroughs or heuristic evaluations by specialists User Reports -- This category involves real users and their mental representations of computers Methods typically involve the use of questionnaires interviews, or ranking methods.  The methods are used to obtain data or opinions from the users on some aspect of the system Observational Methods -- This category involves the real system and real users interacting with a real 


the real system and real users interacting with a real Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 computer.  The set of such methods is very large ranging from informal observation of a single user to full-scale experimentation with appropriate numbers of subjects and control variables.  The observation can be conducted in the real working environment 21] or in usability laboratories [24].  Other examples of observational methods are ?thinking aloud logging measuring actual user usage, and scenariobased usability evaluations 3.2 The Think Aloud Method The Think Aloud method was selected based on the availability of a real version of the system as well as real users.  Using the Think Aloud method, the user attempts to perform tasks with the system and is encouraged to ?think-aloud? ?to describe what he or she believes is happening, why certain actions were taken, and what is trying to be accomplished [10 While this is happening, the usability evaluator records the information, thereby providing immediate qualitative feedback about user?s problems with the system and where it occurred.  Think Aloud tests can focus on quantitative [7] or qualitative [12] data collection or both. An advantage of Think Aloud evaluations is that they generate rich data sets from a small number of interviews.  The Think Aloud method is also classified as a discount method [22 as it provides most of the benefit of more robust evaluation techniques without having to pay a much higher price in effort and resources.  This is perhaps one of the reasons why the Think Aloud evaluation method is amongst the most popular involving users 40].  In addition to providing immediate feedback about a user?s efficiency and accuracy when performing tasks with the user interface, the Think Aloud method also provides immediate feedback to system designers about the user?s understanding of the system.  For example, users often make comments which explain their level of understanding of the system.  These comments can be particularly helpful when they differ from the designer?s understanding of the system or when they reflect difficulty using the system In addition to the Think Aloud method, a usability evaluation questionnaire was also employed to collect quantitative data.  The questionnaires were completed immediately after completion of the Think Aloud sessions ? a constraint we realize is not ideal from a research design perspective, but one that was necessary due to limited user availability and the compressed timeline of this project.  The questionnaire contained questions linked to the user?s ability to navigate the menu, questions associated to the ease of finding information, as well as other usability-related questions.  Quantitative data can be used in conjunction with qualitative data to triangulate findings [16].  The quantitative data of the usability questionnaire and the quantitative data collected with the Think Aloud interviews provide measurable results, while the qualitative data is used to explain the reasons for these results The system selected for this study was a critical system at a military facility which we will refer to as the Report Generation System \(RGS the system were planned including an overhaul of the system?s main menu.  The RGS interface is used by approximately two hundred users to track data and generate reports.  One of the central tasks assigned to the evaluation team was to evaluate the usability of the layout and organization of the main menu for 


the layout and organization of the main menu for RGS.  There were two main menu design being considered, the expandable-index based menu \(see Figure 1 see Figure 2 The frame-based menu was not intentionally designed with spatial and semantic grouping as defined by Niemela and Saariluoma [28]. However spatial and semantic grouping were identified similar functionalities were found within the same frame.  The new design did consider such principles as enforcing recognition over recall, using borders to group tasks, color theme, and maximizing user consistency as recommended by Weiss et al., [39 3.3 Participants The participants were day-to-day RGS users; eight users volunteered to participate.  The small testing sample was considered adequate due to availability of the distributed users, the demands on the users? time and the time constraints set placed upon the team Also, as pointed out by Eveland and Dunwoody [11 a smaller number of participants may be more appropriate for the Think Aloud method since more data is collected per individual.  It should be noted that the participants in the evaluation were not the same users who contributed recommendations for the design of the frame-based menu design for RGS 3.4 Procedures Users were first asked to complete three to five tasks using the main RGS menu as a starting point.  These tasks were specific to the function that person would normally perform within his or her particular role when using the RGS.  Since participants were users with different roles, the study design assured that the user was assigned to complete the tasks associated with his or her day-to-day role.  This resulted in two sets of tasks, referred to in this paper as Task Group Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 A and Task Group B.  Users were asked to complete the tasks corresponding to their user role with both the frame-based menu design and the expandable index menu design.  To control for learning effects which would possibly increase user performance using whichever menu was tested second by a particular user, the order of the menu designs was swapped so that half of the users performed tasks on                   Figure 1. Expandable-Index Menu        


            Figure 2. Frame-Based Menu the frame-based menu first and half performed tasks on the expandable index-based GUI first. Test administrators observed the user performing the tasks and recorded their impressions and observations, the time for completion of the task, any navigation or other errors, and also the thoughts verbalized by the subject during the conduct of the test Users were also asked to answer questions regarding menu usability and overall satisfaction Twenty questions specific to each GUI were asked Messaging Personal Shortcuts Recently Used Role A? ?Role B? ?Role C? ?Role D? ?Administrator??General Major Group 3 Task 1-1 Task 1-2 Task 1-3 Task 1-4 Task 1-5 Task 1-6 Major Group 2 Major Group 4 Major Group 6 U N C L A S S I F I E DE X E R E X E R R o l e  I n d i c a t o r  ? ? R o l e  A File     Options     Roles     Help Exercise Name: Time Exer Real 30 Nov 2007  21:42 \(Z 30 Nov 2007  21:42 \(Z GUI Usability Testing Task 1-4 Task 2-1 Task 3-1-2 Task 4-3-2 Major Group 1 Task 2-1 Task 2-2 Task 2-3 Task 2-4 Task 2-5 Task 2-6 Task 2-7 Subgroup 3-1 Task 3-1-1 Task 3-1-2 Task 3-1-3 Task 3-1-4 Subgroup 3-2 Task 3-2-1 Task 3-2-2 Task 3-2-3 Task 3-2-4 Task 3-2-5 Task 3-3 Task 3-4 Task 3-5 Task 4-1 


Task 4-1 Task 4-2 Subgroup 4-3 Task 4-3-1 Task 4-3-2 Task 4-3-3 Task 4-4 Task 4-5 Major Group 5 Quick Report # 1 Quick Report # 2 Quick Report # 3 Quick Report # 4 Quick Report # 5 Quick Report # 6 Quick Report # 7 Quick Report # 8 Quick Report # 9 Quick Report # 10 Quick Report # 11 Quick Report # 12 Quick Report # 13 Quick Report # 14 Quick Report # 15 Quick Report # 16 Quick Report # 17 Quick Report # 18 Quick Report # 19 Quick Report # 20 Task 5-1 Task 5-2 Personal Shortcuts Recently Used U N C L A S S I F I E DE X E R E X E R R o l e  I n d i c a t o r  ? ? R o l e  A File     Options     Roles     Help Exercise Name: Time Exer Real 30 Nov 2007 21:42 \(Z 30 Nov 2007 21:42 \(Z Task 3-1-1 Task 3-2-3 Task 4-1-1 Task 4-1-2 Main Category Major Group 1 Major Group 2 Major Group 3 Subgroup 3-1 Subgroup 3-2 Task 3-2-1 Task 3-1-1 Task 3-1-2 Task 3-1-3 Task 3-1-4 Major Group 4 Major Group 5 Major Group 6 Task 3-2-2 Task 3-2-3 Task 3-2-4 Task 3-2-5 Task 3-3 Task 3-4 Task 3-5 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 after the tasks for each menu-design were completed and three additional ?overall satisfaction? questions 


were asked at the conclusion of the test.  Each of these questions was based on a 7-point Likert scale with higher scores representing higher satisfaction Finally, users were asked to provide specific comments on overall likes, dislikes, perceptions, and comparisons between the two GUIs.  Refer to Figure 3 below for a summary of this process   Figure 3. Evaluation Test Process 4. Data Analysis and Results This section discusses the analysis of the data collected through the Think Aloud approach which is relevant to the comparison of menu layout designs Other data were collected which are relevant to usability issues other than menu layout design.  The analysis section is divided into two sub-sections: the first part of the analysis focuses on the quantitative data obtained from the usability evaluation questionnaire.  The second part of the analysis focuses on the qualitative and quantitative data obtained from the Think Aloud sessions 4.1 Usability Evaluation Questionnaire Data Analysis To compare user satisfaction with the two different menu designs, the quantitative responses to the 20 questions on the usability survey were analyzed.   Initial data analysis consisted of averaging the responses of all eight users to each of the quantitative questions.   The frame-based menu design prevailed in essentially all measures Specifically, the average score for the expandableindex menu design on the 20 questions was 4.9, while for the frame-based design it was 5.7 - an improvement of 16%.  A second analysis was also conducted by excluding those questions which applied equally to both menu designs.  For example the color schemes for both menu designs were identical, so the question asking about acceptability of the color scheme should not have been specific to either menu design.  Five such questions were eliminated, bringing the averages on the remaining 15 questions to 4.7 for the frame-based design and 5.7 for the expandable index design.  This yielded an improvement of 21 Additionally, the final overall comparison questions asked the user specifically which menu design was preferred. In this case, the frame-based menu design prevailed over the expandable index design by a 6.4 to 2.2 margin The five questions for expandable index design having the lowest averages are listed below in Table 2.  These items are likely to reflect aspects of the user interface that, if improved, would most increase user satisfaction.   Note that on these lowest scoring items there was the high agreement among subjects, as indicated by the low standard deviation  Table 2.  Lowest Average Satisfaction 4.2 Analysis of Statistical Significance Further analysis of the quantitative data was conducted using the Wilcoxon Signed-Ranked Test methodology on each individual question.  This test examines groups of responses, in this case pairs of responses, to determine if there is a statistically significant difference between them.  The Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test is a well-accepted statistical technique for analysis of dependent samples, and was chosen for this reason.  Analysis shows that differences for five of the 20 questions were significant at the 95% level, with an additional two showing differences significant at the 90% level.  The 


showing differences significant at the 90% level.  The small sample size directly contributed the lack of statistical significance of most of the differences The results of the statistically significant differences are reported in Table 3 below  Evaluation Criteria Average Standard Deviation I was able to navigate easily while using the system. 3.75 1.39 The labels that describe the functions were meaningful. 3.75 1.39 The system was easy to use. 3.87 1.46 I was able to find functionality where I expected. 4 1.31 I was able to find information where I expected. 4 1.61 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 4.2 Think Aloud Data Analysis Observations of user behavior and comments about the system were noted by the research team which helped to understand the usability of the two systems as well as provide insights.   The following data are examples of data relevant to the comparison of the two layout designs 4.2.1 User Comments.  Several users were not satisfied with the labels used to describe submenus while using the index-based menu.  \(Note that the labels were identical between the two sample user interfaces generic enough that system functions could fall under multiple labels.  Using the index-based menu  had to remember the various names of the labels when deciding which one to select, whereas on the framebased menu all labels were visible and they could easily compare and select faster.  The frame-based menu appears to have supported semantic chunking as explained by Niemala and Saariluoma [28 4.2.2  User Errors.  The poor labeling of menu items confused users.  Several errors were associated with users clicking on the wrong sub-menu to locate functionality for a task.   This happened regardless of which menu design they used 4.2.3 Task Completion Times.  The research team did keep track of the time it took to complete the tasks.  However, the time was not accurate as some of the users requested to discuss a couple of issues therefore the time was not completely accurate and consistent.  Although the statistical differences between task completion times cannot be demonstrated, the participants completed all tasks in shorter amounts of time for the frame-based menu design.  The results of both task times are summarized below in Figure 4 and Figure 5   Figure 4. Completion Times Task Group A  Figure 5. Completion Times Task Group B 5. Discussion and Conclusions The frame-based menu design was found to be statistically better than the expandable index menu design on ease of use, ease of navigation meaningfulness of labels, ability to easily find information and ability to easily locate desired functionality.  The statistical results also indicated that users perceived they became more productive quickly using the frame-based menu design Increasing a user?s ability to recognize the menu layout increases user satisfaction and performance Zaphiris et al. [44] posit that the low performance of the expandable index in their study was due to the 


the expandable index in their study was due to the fact that as menus ?expanded? they pushed menu items off the screen, making finding information more difficult, but this difficulty was not present in the current design.  Expandable menus do not hold menu items positionally constant as compared to the frame-based menu.  They also hide sub-menu items until the sub-menu is clicked, thereby inhibiting understanding of the semantic organization of the Mean Scores Evaluation Criteria Expand able Index Frame Sig The system was easy to use. 3.87 6.13 Yes I was able to navigate easily while using the system. 3.75 5.75 Yes The labels that describe the functions were meaningful. 3.75 5.63 Yes I was able to find information where I expected. 4.00 5.75 Yes The organization of functions made sense to me. 4.25 5.38 Yes I was able to find functionality where I expected. 4.00 5.75 Yes I could become productive quickly using the main menu. 4.88 6.25 Yes Significant at 90% Confidence Interval, otherwise significant at 95  Table 3.  Differences in Satisfaction  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 sub-menu items.  The user is therefore less able to recognize the layout of the menu and requires more training and practice to become accustomed to it An interesting observation from our study is that correct labeling appears to become more important when users cannot see the group of items being labeled.  Labels were consistent between menu designs.  However, users felt that the same labels were less meaningful for the expandable index menu design where they could not see the contents of submenu relative to the frame-based menu design where they could.  In addition, they reported that organization was less clear and finding information and functionality was more problematic with the expandable-index based menu which hid contents of submenus The visibility of the menu items in the expandable index menu may have caused the user to perceive that the menu had less breadth and more depth.  Also, in the frame based dashboard menu where all menu items were constantly visible breadth and depth were non issues.   As Norman and Chin 30] suggest, the benefit of this arrangement \(greater breadth than depth familiar with fewer menu levels. In the case of the frame based dashboard there were no menu levels Thus, this also likely contributed to users? higher performance and preference for the frame-based dashboard menu In summary, we found the frame-based menu was a better design approach than the expandable index.   This is insight will help practitioners design and build better main menus.  It is also may be used to justify the additional effort it takes to code and design a dashboard type frame-based menu The study has two main limitations that should be noted.  First, the sample size was small, although 


be noted.  First, the sample size was small, although the qualitative data was rich.  Secondly, statistical significance could not be determined for the task completion times, therefore conclusions based on these findings should be made cautiously Future research should consider the comparison of a text frame-based menu as used in this research to a more 3-D, graphical menu that incorporates various GUI visualization techniques such as GIS, video graphs, etc. We also recommend verifying our results with a larger sample size 6. References 1]  Agarwal, R., Venkatesh, V., ?Assessing a firm?s web presence: a heuristic evaluation procedure for the measurement of usability,? Information Systems Research June, 2002, 13\(2 2]  Allen, R.B. "Cognitive Factors in the Use of Menus and Trees: an Experiment" IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications \(2 3]  Baecker, H., et. al,  ACM SIGCHI Curricula for Human-Computer Interaction ACM, New York, 1992 4]  Bederson, B. "Fisheye Menus," CHI Letters \(2:2 2000,  pp 217-225 5]  Bernard, M.,  Hamblin, C. "Cascading versus Indexed Menu Design," Usability News \(5:1 6]  Campbell, D.J. "Task Complexity: A Review and Analysis," Academy of Management Review \(13 40-52 7]  Carmel, E., Crawford, S., and Chen, H. "Browsing in Hypertext: A Cognitive Study," IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics \(22 8]  Craiger, J., ?Traveling in cyberspace: psychology of software design,? The Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Jan. 2000, 21. pp. 113-122 9]  Dieberger, A. "Supporting Social Navigation on the World Wide Web," International Journal of HumanComputer Studies \(46:6 10]  Dix, A. et. al, Human-Computer Interaction Prentice Hall, Inc., Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2003 11]  Eveland, W., Dunwoody, S. "Examining Information Processing on the World Wide Web Using Think Aloud Protocols," Mediapsychology \(2 12]  Hill, J., Hannafin, M."Cognitive Strategies and Learning from the World Wide Web," Educational Technology Research &amp; Development \(45:4 64 13]  Hofman, R., and Oostendorp, H.v. "Cognitive Effects of a Structural Overview in Hypertext," British Journal of Educational Technology \(30:2 14]  Jacko, J., and Salvendy, G. "An Experimental Study for Menu Design: Guidelines for Menu Selection Perceptual and Motor Skills \(82  15]  Jeffries, R., Miller, J. R., Wharton, C., Uyeda, K. M User interface evaluation in the real world:  a comparison of four techniques,? Communications of the ACM, March 1991 pp. 119-124 16]  Kaplan, B., Duchon, D. "Combining Qualitative and Quantitative Methods in Information Systems Research: A Case Study," MIS Quarterly \(12:4 571-586 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 17]  Kara, A.G., and Cagiltay, K. "A Comparison of Cascading Horizontal and Vertical Menus with Overlapping and Traditional Designs in Terms of Effectiveness, Error Rate, and User Satisfaction," IEEE International Symposium on Personal, Indoor, and Mobile Radio Communications, 2007, pp. 1-4 18]  Karat, J., ?User-centered software evaluation methods,? In M. Helander, T.K. Landauer, and P.V. Prabhu Eds 


Eds Amsterdam: North Holland, 1997 19]  Kiger, J.I. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in the Design of Menu-Driven Interfaces," International Journal of Man-Machine Studies \(20 20]   Miller, D.P. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in Hierarchical Computer Menus," Human Factors Society 1981, pp. 296-300 21]  Newman, W. M. and Lamming, M. G., Interactive system design, Cambridge, MA, Addison-Wesley, 1995 22]  Nielsen, J. "Usability Engineering at a Discount International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction Elsevier Science, Boston, 1989, pp. 394-401 23]  Nielsen, J. Usability Engineering, Acad. Press, 1993  24]  Nielsen, J., ?Heuristic evaluation,? in J. Nielsen and R. Mack \(eds Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994  25]  Nielsen, J., ?Usability metrics:  Tracking interface improvements,? IEEE Software, Nov 1996, pp. 12-13 26]  Nielsen J www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html, 2002 27]  Nielsen, J. and Mack, R., Usability inspection methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., 1994 28]  Niemela, M., and Saariluoma, P. "Layout Attributes and Recall," Behaviour &amp; Information Technology \(22:5 2003, pp 353-363 29]  Norman, K.L. The Psychology of Menu Selection Ablex Publishing Corporation, Norwood, NJ, 1991 30]  Norman, K.L., and Chin, J. "The Effect of Tree Structures on Search in a Hierarchical Menu Selection System," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(7 51-65 31]  Perlman, G. http://edgarmatias.com/faq/G/G-1.html 2000 32]  Reiterer, H.,  Oppermann, R. Evaluation of User Interfaces: EVADIS II -- A Comprehensive Evaluation Approach. In Behaviour and Information Technology, 12 3 33]  Schenkman, B.N., and Jonsson, F.U. "Aesthetics and Preferences of Web Pages," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(19:5 34]  Shackel, B., ?Usability ? context, framework definition, design and evaluation,? in Human Factors for Informatics Usability, edited by Shackel, B. and Richardson, S. J., Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press 1991, pp. 21-38 35]  Shneiderman, B., "Designing trust into online experiences,? Communications of the ACM, December 2000, pp. 57- 59  36]  Shneiderman, Ben, Designing the User Interface Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction Reading, Mass., Addison-Wesley, 1986, 1987c 37]  Somberg, B.L. "A Comparison of Rule-Based and Positionally Constant Arrangements of Computer Menu Items," CHI and GI 1987, ACM, New York, New York 1987, pp. 255-260 38]  Vredenburg, K., et. al "A Survey of User-Centered Design Practice," SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM, Minneapolis, Minnesota 2002, pp. 471-478 39]  Weiss, E., and Nielsen, J. "Heuristic evaluation, a system checklist, usability analysis &amp; design," Xerox Corporation 40]  Wharton, C., et. al,  ?The cognitive walkthrough method:  A practitioner?s guide,? in Nielsen, J., Mack, R Usability Inspection Methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994 41]  Whitefield, A., Wilson, F., and Dowell, J. "A Framewokr for Human Factors Evaluation," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(10:1 


42] Yu, B.-M., and Roh, S.-Z. "The Effects of Menu Design on Information-Seeking Performance and User's Attitude on the World Wide Web," Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology \(53:11 2002, pp 923-933 43]Zaphiris, P., and Mtei, L. "Depth vs. Breadth in the Arrangement of Web Links," 1997, p. Available online http://otal.umd.edu/SHORE/bs04 44]  Zaphiris, P., Shneiderman, B., and Norman, K.L Expandable Indexes vs. Sequential Menus for Searching Heirarchies on the World Wide Web," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(21:3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


and Improving IT Governance through the Balanced Scorecard", Information Systems Control Journal, 2 70] Van Grembergen, W., De Haes, S., and Guldentops E., "Structures, Processes and Relational Mechanisms for IT Governance" in: Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed for Information Technology Governance,  Idea Group Publishing, 2004, 1-37 71] Wagner, H.-T., A resource-based perspective on IT business alignment and firm performance - Theoretical foundation and empirical evidence, ibidem, Stuttgart, Germany, 2007 72] Wagner, H.-T. and Weitzel, T., "IT Business Alignment as Governance Tool for Firm-Internal Relationship Quality: A Longitudinal Case Study",  41th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 Island, Hawaii, 2008 73] Webb, P., Pollard, C., and Ridley, G., "Attempting to Define IT Governance: Wisdom or Folly?",  39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kauai, Hawaii, 2006 74] Zahra, S.A. and George, G., "The Net-Enabled Business Innovation Cycle and the Evolution of Dynamic Capabilities", Information Systems Research, 13\(2 147-150 75] Zmud, R.W., "Building relationships throughout the corporate entity" in: Elam, J., Ginzberg, M., Keen, P., and Zmud, R.W. \(Eds mission, the framework, the transition,  1988, Washington 1988, 55-82   Appendix  Table 5. Used indicators All items have been evaluated by using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from ?strongly agree? to  strongly disagree ID Item References Executive support \(ES ES1 The IT unit is sufficiently represented in our bank  s executive board. [18 ES2 Top management actively supports interplay between business and IT Strategic Alignment \(SA SA1 I am familiar with the IT strategy. [55 SA2 The IT strategy is accurately aligned with the business strategy. [22, 54, 55, 63 SA3 The IT strategy is documented. [17, 54 Governance Mechanisms \(GM GM1 There are explicit incentives rewarding good interaction with the IT unit. [51 GM2 The back office is proactively involved into IT planning. [17, 26, 55 GM3 There is a specific organizational unit or function to improve the communication be-tween  the IT and the back office 17, 26 Operational Alignment \(OA OA1 There is mutual trust and respect between IT unit and the back office. [13, 46, 64 OA2 IT and the back office regularly consult each other. [13, 17, 19 OA3 There are meetings on a regular basis between IT and back office for identifying business process improvements 17, 26, 55  OA4 There is extensive communication between IT unit and back office. [15, 17, 26 OA5 IT employees are able to interpret business related problems and develop solutions. [13, 60  64 Process Performance \(PP PP1 The configuration of our credit process allows us to sustain a competitive advantage in the  relevant market 36 PP2 The configuration of our credit process allows us to differentiate us from the competi-tors  in the relevant market 36, 42 PP3 Compared to our competitors, the operational efficiency of our loans process is higher. [23  27 PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  


PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  5 much worse 71 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





