html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">  1 Implementation of a Plug-and-Play Attitude Determination and Control System on PnPSat Paul Graven, Ksenia Kolcio and Yegor Plam Microcosm, Inc 4940 W. 147th Street, Hawthorne, CA 90249 310-219-2700 pgraven@smad.com; kkolcio@smad.com; yplam@smad.com L. Jane Hansen HRP Systems 4010 Palos Verdes Drive, N. #208, Rolling Hills, CA 90274 310-541-2946 hansen@hrpsystems.com  Abstract  Plug and Play Satellite \(PnPSat Research Laboratory \(AFRL spacecraft developed to provide flight validation of the viability of AFRL  s PnP architecture and technologies.1,2 Microcosm and its partner HRP Systems have led the development of the PnP attitude determination and control system \(ADCS of the flight software \(FSW provide an overview of the PnPSat FSW architecture focused on ADCS implications, followed by a summary of groundbased testing results PnPSat ADCS development has been challenged by both an accelerated implementation timeline and the requirements of the AFRL PnP architecture. However, the development of the PnP FSW has been true to the original goals and objectives of the PnP architecture, which focuses on a data centric system that abstracts the source and destination of information highlighting the use of data elements. The evaluation of this first end-to-end flight implementation of PnP ADCS established during assembly, integration, and test \(AI&amp;T the AFRL Responsive Space Testbed \(RST validity of the approach. The performance drivers have also been elevated to specific hardware components selected to be part of the system. Given high performance sensors and actuators, the PnP infrastructure may become the bottleneck to creating a high performance ADCS implementation. This bottleneck can be avoided by incorporating the specific lessons learned from on-going flight-software-in-the-loop FSWIL Thus, the promise of rapid integration and flight software deployment for future PnP enabled spacecraft will be fulfilled TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION.............................................................1 2. PLUG-AND-PLAY OVERVIEW.......................................2 3. FLIGHT SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE...........................4 4. GROUND TEST RESULTS FOR NOMINAL PNP ADCS FSW ..............................................................................6  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00  2009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1664, Version 1, Updated 2009:01:19 5. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS TO PNP ADCS FSW .................................................................. 7 6. REFERENCES.............................................................. 12 7. BIOGRAPHY................................................................ 12 1. INTRODUCTION Spacecraft development has become excessively expensive in terms of cost and time, which has led to intolerance for failure. This failure intolerance ultimately spirals into higher costs and longer schedules, resulting in increased intolerance for failure, etc. Operationally Responsive Space ORS shift to smaller, less costly, and ultimately expendable spacecraft, with  good enough  performance, rather than optimal performance. This ORS model, where multiple low-cost spacecraft are built-to-inventory, implies the need for off-the-shelf building blocks or modular components 


for off-the-shelf building blocks or modular components and the mechanism to integrate them rapidly into the desired configuration to meet current and future mission requirements. The principle of plug-and-play \(PnP been used in commercial computer systems to allow multiple vendors to create modular components that can be quickly and easily integrated to retain, replace, or augment the original systems  functionality. Applying PnP to spacecraft components, both hardware and software, has been identified as an enabling technology to facilitate the ORS concept for future missions. The task of implementing PnP as part of the spacecraft development process requires a moderate amount of up-front investment in terms of time and effort, as well as a shift in the development processes and methodologies. Complexities associated with the various components may be hidden by the interface standards, but they still exist. Once they can be accommodated, and software constructs are created to aid in the PnP software development, the PnP standards may prove to be invaluable to the rapid spacecraft development that is needed to meet the challenges of ORS Microcosm, in conjunction with HRP Systems, under Small Business Innovative Research \(SBIR AFRL/VSSE, has developed several rapid prototype implementations of PnP components focused on an ADCS application. The early objective of the work was to create a self-configuring network, including resource discovery 2 configuration, and management, in addition to providing system level configuration and graceful degradation based on the plugged-in, available components. Later, using AFRL provided middleware for data discovery and transmission, a more complex and flight worthy ADCS software system was developed and tested in AFRL  s Responsive Space Testbed \(RST Microcosm team has begun development of PnP hardware components, such as a prototype micro-electromechanical system \(MEMS IMU low cost star sensor, and a low power integrated GPS MEMS IMU, and star sensor unit. These endeavors form the foundation for determining the feasibility of achieving responsive space through the application of PnP concepts with an emphasis on what we believe to be the most challenging application: ADCS 2. PLUG-AND-PLAY OVERVIEW The primary purpose of the PnPSat is to demonstrate the viability of the AFRL Spacecraft PnP Avionics \(SPA standards and other infrastructure. Thus, the PnPSat ADCS architecture was developed based on the requirement to use the AFRL PnP paradigm, rather than attempting to meet specific pointing and mapping accuracies for a particular mission. The AFRL PnP paradigm includes the use of the SPA standards for transport layer protocol, Satellite Data Model \(SDM extended Transducer Electronic Data Sheets \(xTEDS delineate available data from devices \(hardware applications \(software CDD For the ADCS components, the CDD includes message sets that are comprised of atomic data elements, those that represent the lowest level of physical activity.  Figure 1 shows how measured or sensed atomic data has a direct tie to physics and geometry, rather than subsystems or components e.g., spacecraft motion, rates, expressed in body coordinates Refs 3, 4 SPA is defined as an interface-driven set of standards encompassing hardware, software, and protocols, intended to promote the rapid development and integration of spacecraft \(busses and payloads  standards comprise an open systems framework, which combines core commercial data transport standards \(such as 


combines core commercial data transport standards \(such as Universal Serial Bus \(USB chosen hardware and software extensions necessary for the real-time embedded systems and harsh operational environment onboard a satellite. Each specific SPA-X transport standard derives its name from the adapted data transport standard, such as SPA-U \(using USB using SpaceWire  Figure 1  Atomic-level  Data Elements are Based on Physics Rather than Specific Devices / Equipment within a Platform 3 The PnPSat is built around the SPA-S standard network with smart panels that include all network wiring, routers and power distribution. Legacy hardware is added to the SPA-S network through the implementation of appliqu   sensor interface modules \(ASIMs  unpacking  instructions for each piece of data are held within the run-time parsable ICD, known as the xTEDS The format of the xTEDS is an industry-standard XML notation where each of the ADCS component data elements are identified based on legacy ICD terminology. [Ref 6 Within the ADCS FSW there is an application that is specifically responsible for translating each type of ADCS data into one of the atomic data elements described above For PnPSat all of the ADCS sensors and actuators are legacy components that are integrated to the SPA-S network via ASIMs. The ADCS sensor suite includes a magnetometer, two coarse Sun sensor assemblies consisting of four sensors each, two inertial rate units \(IRUs Receiver, and a Star Sensor. The ADCS actuators include 3 magnetic torquers and 3 reaction wheels. A block diagram of the ADCS avionics components is shown in Figure 2. In addition to these components the PnPSat also includes a software defined radio for communications, power distribution subsystem, and a camera that acts as a payload  Figure 2.  PnPSat ADCS Avionics Elements The FSW architecture that is used by AFRL on the PnPSat to facilitate the PnP capabilities uses new software structures and concepts, such as subsystem controllers and activity agents. Subsystem controllers are software applications that manage the subsystem activities. Activity Agents are software applications that exploit subsystems to perform specific tasks The AFRL PnP concepts, illustrated in the software architecture shown in Figure 3, have been prototyped and evaluated as part of the on-going activities in the responsive space testbed \(RST Force Base for responsive space research. [Ref 7  Figure 3.  An Architecture for Applications in SPA/SDM While the SPA-S protocol is abstracted away from the actual ADCS FSW, the PnPSat ADCS FSW implementtation makes extensive use of SDM and xTEDS for initialization and discovery. The Satellite Data Model SDM University  s \(USU  s SDL middleware goals and objectives. SDM makes use of the xTEDS concept to promote self-discovery and data publish and subscribe, as well as facilitating point-to-point data messaging between publishers and consumers. SDM is comprised of four modules. The Data Manager implements 4 the  registry  and look-up service functionality. Other SDM modules include the task manager, network manager, and processor manager. The SDM architecture is intended for distributed implementtation, meaning that components can be dispersed throughout a network of processors within a SPA system 


SPA system In terms of performance, this PnP implementation has some limitations, due primarily to the overarching philosophy of PnP and the idea that a responsive solution may not need to be optimized, but should be sufficient to meet the mission needs. First, latency exists across the network as the data is pushed from the source rather than pulled by the consumer in a deterministic timing scheme, from a central flight computer. While SDM allows for point-to-point communication once a publish/subscribe relationship is established the publisher drives the data availability which is contrary to standard avionics networks such as MIL-STD-1553 Additionally, by abstracting the core software and creating reusable Computer Software Components \(CSCs intermediate steps have been created, resulting in more individual FSW modules that will use SDM to transmit and receive data. With each of these compromises, there are benefits in terms of portability, reuse, and overall system availability. The test results from initial flight-software-in  the-loop \(FSWIL FSW will be included toward the end of this paper The final section of the paper will briefly address future improvements and/or enhancements that are scheduled to be made to the FSW, hopefully prior to launch which is anticipated in December 2009 3. FLIGHT SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE The first delivery of PnPSat ADCS FSW was constrained by the initial sensor and actuator suite that was baselined on the vehicle, which included 2 sets of 3 coarse Sun sensor heads in an integrated assembly, 1 magnetometer, 1 inertial reference unit \(IRU initial discussion here will focus on the initial ADCS FSW with an overall architecture and data flow as shown in Figure 4.  The primary elements of this initial PnPSat ADCS FSW delivery are the Coarse Sun Sensor Solution CSSS Solution \(MagSun BAR Additionally, the FSW includes a position and velocity propagator \(PVPropagator  Figure 4.  ADCS PnPSat FSW Overview June/July 2008 5  For demonstration at AFRL within the Responsive Space Testbed \(RST in Figure 5. The ADCS Subsystem Controller, shown on the left side of Figure 5, provides a single interface to the rest of the system.  The ADCS FSW includes helper applications helper apps perform much like traditional input/output \(I/O would for each of the devices \(sensors and actuators are used by the FSW. These helper apps are specific to the hardware components, translating the component specific information into or out of atomic data elements.  Atomic data elements are the data constructs that are tied directly to physics and physical properties such as rotation and translation information, vectors to third body objects, and requested accelerations, torques, and change in momentum This methodology allows all the software outside of the I/O handler/helper apps to be generic and thus, reusable.  Other helper apps include the FSW components that are needed to propagate the current state to an epoch of interest, fusing sensor data for a more complete state estimate, and implementing high fidelity environment models to provide an accurate reference.  The actual control laws are relatively generic, however, the gains need to be determined for a specific vehicle and the associated avionics components As shown in Figure 5, there is also a planning function and generic control laws each of which provides the traditional functions in a non-traditional implementation. The 


functions in a non-traditional implementation. The propagator, state estimator, and best attitude components process all available data within the system and provide the best solution as an output. The targeting error component determines the difference between the vehicle actual state and the desired state. The sensor and actuator helper apps translate data from the supplier format to the PnP required atomic data level elements.  The vehicle services, external to the ADCS FSW, provide the specific vehicle configuration and mass properties, and the sensor and actuator helper apps are needed to facilitate core algorithms that have been completely abstracted from the specific sensor/actuator suite Via the ADCS Subsystem Controller, the PnPSat ADCS FSW can be moded into 4 basic modes: de-tumble where the rates are nulled but a specific attitude is not sought, Sun point where the vehicle attitude is optimized to point the solar arrayto the sun, lawn-dart or nadir point mode where when the vehicle is below 350 km, the solar array is aligned with Local Vertical Local Horizontal \(LVLH atmospheric torque yet still get a fair amount of sunlight, a communications \(comm the communications antenna\(s finally, a ground track mode where a specific location on the vehicle is pointed toward a desired latitude and longitude on the Earth   Figure 5.  PnP GNC Flight Software \(FSW 6  4. GROUND TEST RESULTS FOR NOMINAL PNP ADCS FSW For testing of the PnPSat FSW, a simulation has been created to support both FSWIL and hardware-in-the-loop HWIL mode on the ASIMs to provide dynamic data through the actual hardware elements as testing progresses. The test results shown here have been generated during FSWIL testing. A basic scenario, starting with deployment and progressing through sun point has been executed to assure that the ADCS performance is acceptable.  Specifically, as shown in Figure 6, the scenario progresses from before separation from the launch vehicle, to deployment, detumble, solar arrays deployed, Sun point, lawn-dart/nadir point, and return to Sun point.  Notice that in each figure the axis associated with the spacecraft are color coded.  These color codings will match with the axis displayed in the plots of the control results  Figure 6.  Pictorial of Flight Scenario for FSWIL Testing of ADCS Functionality 7 Figure 7 shows the first 400 seconds of the FSWIL simulation run that covers several of the ADCS modes This figure illustrates the various navigation modes achieved by the ADCS FSW as well as the notion of  data quality  which is based on the type of data that is available at any given time. Based on the sensors that are operational different types of data are available, leading to the use of varying ADCS FSW approaches to estimating the calculated state, which includes Sun LOS, angular rate attitude, position and velocity. The navigation modes are, in sequence of execution: Standby, Detumble, Sun Point and Nadir Point Position and velocity are computed at 5 Hz by a PVPropagator FSW application. PVPropagator initializes with a pre-launch best  guesstimate  and adjusts once the GPS data starts flowing. In this scenario, the GPS data starts flowing at about 80 seconds into the simulation run.  The Sun LOS is computed from the coarse Sun sensor signals However, due to the vehicle configuration, there is a nontrivial amount of blockage of the Sun by the solar arrays and by the spacecraft itself. When blockage occurs, the Sun 


and by the spacecraft itself. When blockage occurs, the Sun LOS is propagated with angular rate information, using a previous  best estimate  Such is the case from about 90 to 110 seconds on the simulation timeline.  The angular rate and the attitude have variable data quality according to the method that was used to compute the estimate.  Eventually attitude information may come from the star camera, but currently comes from an application that computes it from the Sun LOS and the Earth magnetic field, both measured and modeled on-board. The angular rate information can come from the IRU or from differentiating the attitude estimate.  If both are available, the latter is used to remove the bias from the IRU data \(which is quite large example shown in Figure 7, IRU data, without bias removal was used for angular rate estimate during the time of Sun sensor blockage Figures 8 and 9 present the difference between the FSWIL  truth  and the ADCS FSW estimates for position and velocity, respectively. The position and velocity differences are shown in Earth Centered Inertial \(ECI of date \(TOD and meters per second for the velocity.  The figure shows the position and velocity. The ADCS FSW position and velocity estimates are based on incremental GPS outputs provided by the FSWIL simulation, with errors typical of GPS being added to the output. The attitude and attitude rate errors, determined by differencing the simulation  truth  with the ADCS FSW estimate, based on magnetometer and Sun data, are shown in Figures 10 and 11 respectively.  Figure 12 and 13 show the errors in attitude and attitude rate as calculated by the FSW as part of the navigation error software that supplies information to the control law software. Within the FSWIL simulation, delays and latency associated with the PnP infrastructure and overhead have been simulated. For both position/velocity and attitude/ attitude rate the errors are largest during the de-tumble mode, when the objective of the FSW is to dampen the rates rather than achieve a specific attitude Additionally, errors occur when data availability varies or operational mode changes.  These plots demonstrate that the PnP paradigm does not degrade the ability of the FSW to estimate position and velocity In the Sun point mode, the objective of the FSW is to align the solar array normal with the Sun line of sight \(LOS Figure 14 illustrates the performance of the Sun point mode as the solar array normal and the Sun LOS are compared The difference is shown in degrees per second Additionally, Figure 15 shows the performance of the lawndart mode, by comparing the nadir axis of the spacecraft, in body coordinates, with the nadir vector in the body coordinate frame 5. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE ENHANCEMENTS TO PNP ADCS FSW The test results illustrate that the PnP philosophy can be incorporated into the traditionally hard real-time arena of ADCS FSW. Some moderate enhancements are planned for the near term to increase reliability and performance of the ADCS software. These include graceful degradation of the system operations as one or more actuator fails or is unavailable, and the implementation of an Extended Kalman Filter \(EKF attitude and the gyro biases, based on the best data available to the system at any given time.  However, for the time being, the PnPSat is fully operational in terms of fundamental ADCS modes, based on a first release of the PnP ADCS FSW provided by the Microcosm team Transitioning from  good-enough  to high-performance in the context of low-cost, responsive missions will necessitate other enhancements, outside of the FSW itself. The enhancements might include the auto-generation of highfidelity simulations and filters/estimators. This is currently much of the work \(and cost 


much of the work \(and cost spacecraft GN&amp;C development. It may, in time, transition the bulk of the development effort for most missions responsive or not, from getting the simulations right to more value-added design activities. For some missions development and deployment from Matlab  or other similar environments would become feasible. Also, with the development of high fidelity simulations that meet the PnP standards, simulation may be included as an intrinsic part of the on-board FSW. If simulation support was inherently provided as part of the ADCS FSW, advanced PnP capabilities such as adaptive onboard filter generation typically requiring a high-fidelity model of the system dynamics, could be readily achieved. Finally, by including simulations within the FSW high fidelity propagation and predictions can be created for planning functions Additionally implications of having simulations within the FSW are the ability to execute environmental models simultaneous with actually experiencing the effect being modeled, and thus validated and/or modified if necessary 8   Figure 7.  Navigation Modes and Data Quality. The Data Shown in Blue is an Angular Rate  Estimate    Figure 8.  Vehicle ECI \(TOD  Updates 9   Figure 9.  Vehicle ECI \(TOD  Updates    Figure 10.  Vehicle Angular Rate, Simulation  Truth  versus an Estimate by the Best_Angular_Rate FSW Application 10  Figure 11.  Vehicle Attitude, Simulation  Truth  versus an Estimate by the Attitude_From_Mag_Sun FSW Application    Figure 12.  Attitude Error Signal, Computed by the Navigation Error Application and Used in the Control Law to Generate Control Acceleration Requests  11  Figure 13.  Angular Rate Error Signal, Computed by the Navigation Error Application and Used in the Control Law to Generate Control Acceleration Requests     Figure 14.  Plot of Vector dV = sunLOS  y-axis.  Y-axis = Solar Array Normal  12  Figure 15.  Plot of vector dV = Nadir  y-axis while in Lawndart / Nadir Point Mode 6. REFERENCES 1] Lyke, J., Cannon, S., Fronterhouse, D., Lanza, D., and Byers, T  A Plug-and-play System for Spacecraft Components Based on USB Standard  Proceedings of the 19th Annual AIAA/USU Conference on Small Satellites, Logan, UT, August 8  11, 2005 


Satellites, Logan, UT, August 8  11, 2005 2]. Lyke, J  Space-Plug-and-Play Avionics \(SPA Year Progress Report  Proceedings of the AIAA Infotech Conference, May 7  9, 2007, Rohnert, CA 3]. Hansen, L. J., Pollack, J.,Graven, P., Plam, Y  Plug-andPlay for Creating Instant GNC Solutions  Proceedings of the 21st AIAA/USU Conference of Small Satellites Logan, UT, August 13  16, 2007 4] Graven, P., Van Allen, R., Hansen, L. J., Pollack, J  Achieving Responsive Space: The Viability of Plugand-Play in Spacecraft Development  Proceedings of the 29th AAS Guidance &amp; Control Conference Breckenridge, CO, Feb. 4  8, 2006 5] Standards Development Guidebook for Space Plug &amp Play Avionics, Draft Ver. 1.1.1_20080715 DLL published by AIAA G-125-200X 6] Graven, P. and Hansen, L. J. A Guidance Navigation and Control \(GN&amp;C Responsive Space. Presented at the AIAA Infotech@Aerospace 2007 Conference and Exhibit, May 7  10, 2007, Rohnert Park, CA 7] Hansen, L. J., Graven, P., Fogel, D., Lyke, J  The Feasibility of Applying Plug-and-Play Concepts to Spacecraft GN&amp;C Systems to Meet the Challenges of Future Responsive Missions  Proceedings of ESA GN&amp;C Conference, Tralee, Ireland, June 2  5, 2008 7. BIOGRAPHY Paul H. Graven is the Director of Technology Development at Microcosm, in Hawthorne CA. Prior to joining Microcosm he spent 5 years as a management consultant developing growth strategies for early stage technology companies He received his MS in Aeronautics &amp; Astronautics from Stanford University, and his BS in Engineering &amp; Applied Science, and Economics from the California Institute of Technology.  He also received a Master  s in Public Policy from Harvard University  s John F. Kennedy School of Government  focusing on science and technology policy and national security policy He has authored or coauthored many spacecraft guidance navigation and control \(GN&amp;C currently the Principal Investigator for one NASA and two Air Force GN&amp;C focused programs He is a member of AAAS, AAS, AGU, AIAA, IEEE, ION SCEA, and SPIE 13 Yegor Plam received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Colorado, Boulder, in 2002 and 2004 respectively He is currently a Systems Engineer in the Space Systems Division of Microcosm, Inc. His expertise is in orbital mechanics, control systems and computer simulations. Mr. Plam has acquired over ten years of software engineering experience from GTE Data Services, Utility Partners, MCI, and the Orbital Control Systems Lab and the Space Grant Consortium at the University of Colorado. Mr. Plam has mission operations experience from the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics in Boulder, Colorado Ksenia Kolcio has a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Toronto and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati Dr. Kolcio joined Microcosm in the fall of 2005 and is a Senior GN&amp;C Engineer at Microcosm. Her duties include analysis tasks as 


Engineer at Microcosm. Her duties include analysis tasks as well as hardware and software development. She is responsible for developing satellite attitude control system designs and carrying out performance assessments, using a variety of control and stabilization approaches, including hardware such as momentum wheels and magnetic torquers Dr. Kolcio was recently the program manager on Microcosm  s Phase II SBIR with MDA for development of the Precision Navigation with Integrated Attitude Determination \(PNIAD GPS receiver, and star sensor in one compact sensor. The MicroMak  star sensor is an integral component of PNIAD At Northrop Grumman Space Technology \(NGST Kolcio was the lead engineer for autonomy and fault management for STSS and SST AT. In this capacity, she was responsible for autonomy and FM architecture, requirements flow down, and traceability. She managed the FM working group as well. Prior to this, she was a testbed engineer for NGST  s Integrated Avionics Demo. For this program, she managed the demo hardware and software working group She built an  all-up simulator  tool for demo test case design She also developed a test plan and procedure for Phase I architecture demo L. Jane Hansen has nearly 30 years of experience in the aerospace industry  providing engineering and management support for avionics systems on board aircraft, spacecraft rockets, launch vehicles, and ballistic missiles. Ms Hansen has a BS in Applied Mathematics from California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo and an MBA from Pepperdine University Currently, Ms. Hansen is President of HRP Systems, a woman-owned, small aerospace company established in 1991 and located in Southern California. Over the years, Ms Hansen has supported large aerospace prime contractors such as Northrop Grumman Integrated Systems, Northrop Grumman Space Technologies \(formerly TRW Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL such as Rocketdyne, Ruggedized Digital, and DEC, as well as supporting smaller aerospace companies such as Microcosm RSI, and Eidetics. She has acted as primary systems engineer with responsibility for requirements, design, test, and interface control documentation, in support of various avionics, software, and simulation development efforts Additionally, Ms. Hansen led the avionics development effort for a commercial unmanned aerial vehicle \(UAV a business plan to acquire commercial funding for such a venture. Ms. Hansen is Associate Fellow in the AIAA   pre></body></html 


 Analysis of activated sludge process using multivariate statistical tools- a PCA approach   Chemical Engineering Journal, 90, pp.283-290 2002 16]. L. H. Chiang, E.L. Russell, R.D. Braatz, Fault detection and diagnosis in industrial systems Springer, USA, 2001 17]. Y. H. Cheng, Y.L. Lin, C. C. Liu  Levels of PM10 and PM2.5 in Taipei rapid transit system   Atmospheric Environment, 42, pp.7242-7249 2008 pre></body></html 


  Picture 6 PCS layout with virtual infrastructure and SAN  The second very important step was the installation and commissioning of a Storage Area Network SAN\, because only a network storage enables to make use of virtualization infrastructure features such as failover. This is due to the fact that virtual machine disk files may not exist on a certain host, as in case of failure it would not be accessible and available any longer to be restarted on a different physical host  SANs are either based on Fibre Channel or iSCSI Technology. The idea of both technologies is to extend the \(usually\nal data lines between hard disk controllers and hard-disks to external devices Fibre Channel has been a proven technology for this type application for years. It has a slightly better performance, but is more expensive than iSCSI iSCSI stands for Internet Small Computer System Interface It  means encapsulation  of the SCSI protocol within TCP/IP packages. Today iSCSI delivers sufficient performance to build up SANs for process automation purposes at a cement works  In such an arrangement, from a failure point of view, the SAN is the most critical peace of hardware in virtualized computer architecture  Although SANs are built up internally fail safe \(redundant power supply, NICs, hard disk controllers,\205 and data sheets give impressive figures for availability, any concept for process control purposes should allow for setting up auto-synchronizing SANs at different spots  User interface VMs running on a host are comparable to applications running on a Terminal Server. In other words, VMs obviously need input and output devices to be handled. Fat clients \(PC\222s\o good choice if it is intended to simplify the maintenance of the process control system hardware. Moreover, they are costly and sometimes prone to error Another step forward -with limited risk only- was to replace some operator stations of a segment by Thin Clients without hard disk The connection between thin client and VM is either done by vendor specific client software, RDP or VNC  Obstacles Minor issues may occur while transferring physical control systems into virtual ones Most of the problems the reference plant encountered had to do with the hardware interfaces such as serial and parallel ports and multi-media features  


Unresolved points \(minor\are to date realizing failover with legacy interfaces and sound output with Windows NT guests   CONCLUSION  Virtualization is no new but a revitalized technol ogy. First virtualization solutions \(purely based on software\ell as computer emulation deliver poor results in terms of performance  Hardware supported virtualization and pure software virtualization are totally different approaches  Virtualization today is most powerful when it combines the strengths of the different technologies. CPU demanding applications are wasting less performance than memory-intense application. \(TLB miss costs  VMware ESX is a good example of this. ESX uses Para-virtualized drivers for the most critical I/O components \(but not for the CPU\, emulation for the le ss important I/O and Binary Translation in order to avoid the high "trap and emulate" performance penalty. In this way, virtualized applications perform quite well, in some cases almost as if th ere were no extra VMM layer involved  The user benefit of virtualization is manifold. Virtualization 225  decouples software from hardware \(provides availability for \223legacy platforms\224, enables software in a cloud 225  utilizes installed hardware more efficient 225  safes space, energy, and invest cost 225  eases system administration extensively  225  but requires additional know-how of system administrators  At this point in time we can say that virtualization has met all of our expectations and offered \226in particular with respect to system administration- even more. The number of plants that started using Virtualization is growing  The process automation staff is still on a learning curve with virtualization in order to take maximum benefit of this technology  Unexploited potential is likely to be found in the field of setting up systems, handling of back-ups and disaster recovery procedures     REFERENCES  200  K. Lawton, Running muliple operating systems concurrently on an IA32 PC using virtualization techniques,http://plex86.org/research/paper.txt 200 www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/001029.html 200 it.anandtech.com 200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_virtualization 200  Virtualization for dummies SUN and AMD special edition 200 www.intel.com/technology/virtualizatio n/technology.htm?iid=tech_vt+tech 200  2008 Automation Summit - ID#: 1474 - Dow Chemical R&D\222s Global Rollout of PCS7\256 Using VMWare\256, Chicago    200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_\(computer_security 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





