 1  Uplink Array Concept Demonstration with the EPOXI Spacecraft   V. Vilnrotter D. Lee, T.Cornish, P.Tsao, L. Paal, V. Jamnejad  Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology  4800 Oak Grove Dr  Pasadena, CA  91109  818\ 354 2745  Victor.A.Vilnrotter@jpl.nasa.gov   Abstract  321  Uplink array technology is currently being developed for NASA's Deep Space Network DSN to provide greater range and data throughput for future NASA missions including manned  missions to Mars and exploratory missions to the outer planets the Kuiper belt and beyond 1 2 3 The DSN uplink arrays employ 
N microwave antennas transmitting at X band to produce signals that add coherently at the spacecraft, thereby providing a power gain of N 2  over a single  antenna This gain can be traded off directly for N 2  higher data rate at a given distance such as Mars providing for example HD quality video broadcast from earth to a future manned mission or it can provide a given data rate for commands and software u ploads at a distance N times greater than possible with a single antenna The uplink arraying concept has been recently demonstrated using the three operational 34 meter antennas of the Apollo complex at Goldstone CA which transmitted arrayed signals to 
the EPOXI spacecraft Both two element and three element uplink arrays were configured and the theoretical array gains of 6 dB and 9.5 dB respectively were demonstrated experimentally This required initial phasing of the array elements the generation of accurate frequency predicts to maintain phase from each antenna despite relative velocity components due to earth rotation and spacecraft trajectory and monitoring of the ground system phase for possible drifts caused by thermal effects over the 16 km fiber optic signal distribution network. This paper provides a description of the equipment and techniques used to demonstrate the uplink arraying concept in a relevant operational environment Data collected f 
rom the EPOXI spacecraft was  analyzed to verif y array calibration, array gain, and system stability over the entire 5 hour duration of this experiment    T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION    1  2  U PLINK A RRAYING C ONCEPT   1  3  G ROUND S YSTEM M ONITORING AND C ONTROL  3  4  U PLINK A RRAY E XPERIMENT R ESULTS  4  5  S UMMARY AND C ONCLUSIONS   6  1  
  1  978 1 4244 2622 5/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE   2 IEEEAC paper #1561 Version 4 Updated January 6, 2009   3 The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion  Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under contract with the  National Aeronautics and Space Administration  R EFERENCES    7  B IOGRAPHY    7   1  I NTRODUCTION  Coherent arraying of antennas transmitting uplink signals to a spacecraft is a novel conce pt that will greatly increase NASA\325s deep space communications capabilities in the future. Typically, deep 
space missions require the capability to command the spacecraft right after launch, during cruise and after encountering the target in order to pro vide two way communication and ranging In addition in flight reconfiguration may be required to accommodate unforeseen changes in mission objectives The use of antenna arrays enables much greater data rates greater effective operating distance and cos t effective scaling for more demanding future missions through a highly flexible design philosophy, via the inherently parallel architecture of antenna arrays   On June 27 th  2008  NASA's De ep Space Network configured an array of three 34 meter antennas  loc ated at the 
Apollo station to transmit  coherently combined signals to the EPOXI spacecraft yielding nine times greater signal power than previously possible with a single antenna Prior to this experiment only single 34 meter or 70 meter antennas had bee n used to trans mit uplink signals. C oherent arraying of three DSN antennas is a major step towards demonstrating future uplink array capabilities greatly extending the DSN\325s reach into deep space   During this experiment X band signals were combined from  three 34 meter antennas at the Goldstone complex near the Mojave Desert and transmitted to the EPOXI  spacecraft EPOXI received the combined signal 
s  measured the combined power levels and verified the predicted array power gain s of 6 dB and 9.5 dB over  a single antenna  for both two  and three antenna arrays  In addition non operational or No Op test messages that  resemble real uplink commands  were transmitted all of which were received and acknowledged  by the EPOXI spacecarft    2  U PL INK A RRAYING C ONCEPT  T he primary goal of this experiment was to illuminate the EPOXI spacecraft simultaneously with two and three X band carriers using the 34 m BWG antennas at the 


 2  Goldstone Apollo complex \(DSS 24, DSS 25 and DSS 26 to determine the stability of the arrayed carrier power at the spacecraft and transmit realistic No Op commands at the ma ximum possible rate  The  physical configuration of the Apollo complex antennas is shown in Fig 1, wh ere DSS 26 is nearest  to the camera  and DSS 24 is farthest along a  north northwest baseline    Fig ure 1. The Apollo complex of 34m BWG antennas at the Goldstone Deep Space Complex   A conceptual diagram of the exper imental setup is shown in Fig. 2  which is similar to a previous experiment carried ou t with the Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft and reported in 1   T h e  c e n t r a l  a n t e n n a   D S S 25 was designated as the reference antenna during this experiment, and was the only antenna configured to both receive EPOXI downlink telemetry  and transmit uplink s ignals  The downlink telemetry contained 5 second updates of the Small Deep Space Transponder  SDST   wide band AGC reading WB A GC narrow band AGC reading  NBAGC and carrier  lock accumulator  reading  CLA which provided the most accurate estimate of re ceived carrier power The other two antennas were employed in transmit mode only                    Figure 2.  EPOXI  Uplink Array Experiment conceptual block diagram    Differential Doppler caused by earth rotation was compensated  using extremely accurate frequency predicts developed especially for uplink array applications and applied to the exciters at SPC 10 prior to transmission Examples of the steady state Doppler compensated two  and three antenna power distributions in the  vicinity of the spacecraft are shown in the simulated far field pa tterns of Figs 3a d The actual antenna positions of  the Apollo complex antennas were used to calculate these patterns, for a target located at zenith In all cases the arrayed power dist ribution in the far field is the product of the primary antenna pattern and the interference pattern generated by two or three point sources located at the antenna phase centers These patterns were calculated at the distance of the Moon and previously us ed to explain the effects of array illumination on a selected lunar target [2    It can be seen from Figs 3  that a rrays composed of a few 34m antennas have a considerable advantage in emergency communications  over irregularly spaced 322large arrays\323 of smal l antennas  since the regular structure of the far field array pattern can be used to greatly reduce the time it takes to locate a lost probe  With  two antenna arrays  a  very efficient "array search can be performed simply by adding 180 degrees to the ph ase of one of the antennas thus exchanging the location of the array peaks and array nulls within the entire single antenna beam therefore the entire 34m single antenna beamwidth can be searched  with a single  operation   In addition since the peak power s within the beam of a two antenna array are four times as great as with a single antenna hence the required dwell time for a given probability of detection is four times smaller near the array peaks than for a single antenna, significant savings in searc h time over a single antenna can be achieved even after the two step phase toggling operation is taken into effect   Fig ure 3  Far field power distributions generated by two and three element arrays of the Apollo complex  Pointing the antennas toward a s pacecraft to a small fraction of the primary beamwidth is routinely achieved with the operational antennas of the Apollo complex However this 


 3  does not guarantee that the peak of the interference pattern generated by two and three antenna arrays illumina ting the spacecraft will be maximized the transmitted phases also have to be aligned at the spacecraft in order to achieve maximized combined power. Initially, the spacecraft may be located near the peak or the null of the two antenna interference pattern  but most likely at some intermediate point on the array gain profile It can be seen from Fig 3 that peaks and nulls occur closely spaced in the interferen ce pattern with fringe spacing  inversely proportional to the length of the baseline for the two antenna configurations demonstrating that  much more precise electronic beam steering is required to point the peak of the array pattern towards EPOXI than to point the primary beam    Durin g the experiment the EPOXI high gain antenna HGA was pointed towards earth this meant that transmitter power levels of only 2 kw could be used with all three antennas in order not to saturate the CLA readings even though the transmitters could delive r a maximum of 20 kw  during normal operations   At the beginning of the track, the DSS 25 transmitter was commanded to transmit a 2kw X band carrier and executed an operational uplink frequency sweep to ensure that the small deep space transponder \(SDST aboard EPOXI acquired the signal one light time later OWLT=172 sec ond s After o ne more round trip light time later RTLT=344 sec ond s the DSS 25 ground station receiver acquired and locked onto the downlink carrier, and began recording engineering tele metry from the spacecraft  The engineering telemetry contained readouts from the WBAGC NBAGC and CLA provi ding  updates of the received uplink carrier power once every five seconds   3   G ROUND S YSTEM M ONITORING AND C ONTROL   Slowly varying phase drifts in the ground distribution system must be monitored and controlled to ensure that proper phasing at the spacecraft is not degraded by differential phase drifts The carrier phases in the signal distribution system are monitored and controlled by the Phase Comparator and Control Assembly  PCCA  located at the Signal Processing Center number 10 SPC 10 in Goldstone  The PCCA contains a signal distribution assembly SDA two phase comparator assemblies PCA to measure round trip and cross phase from all three Apollo antennas and a phase modulation assembly PMA where correction phases to either the DSS 24 or the DSS 26 carriers can be added    The theory of operation of  the PCCA has been fully described in a previous article [3    I n  s u m m a r y   the ground system consists of the X band exciters at SPC 10 X band couplers   and a 322round trip\323 phase comparator assembly at SPC 10 optical fibers for signal distribution to the transmitting antennas X band couplers at the output of the p ower amplifiers at each antenna and additional optical fibers to return the coupled signal samples to SPC 10 for comparison. The two way optical fiber distribution network to and from the antennas is located in the same bundle for most of the 16 km distan ce from SPC 10 to the Apollo cluster ensuring similar thermal behavior for the outgoing and returning signals At the Apollo station the individual fibers are broken out from the common bundle and routed to their respective antennas typically a distance of a few hundred meters over which the fibers may experience slightly different thermal environments   A small fraction of the amplified X band signal is coupled at the output of the transmitter power amplifier PA and routed back to SPC 10 where the ph ase of the signal is compared to that of the transmitted phase using the real time PCA  The inputs to the PCA are the outgoing and return signals from all three array antennas DSS 24 DSS 25 and DSS 26  The PCA outputs consist of complex samples of nomi nally equal magnitude   with phases corresponding to the phase difference between the reference and return signals    The small phase errors introduced in the PCA by RF mixer phase imbalance and ampl i fier biases were processed in real time using a Labview interface.  The PCA wa s designed to provide roughly 5 degrees r oot m ean s quare  accuracy after calibration  The phase measurement accuracy was estimated based on analysis of component VSWR and phase imbalance  calculations   Before the experiment  t he power levels of the DSS 24 and DSS 25 reference and sample signals were measured using transmitter setting s of 2 kw which is  the lowest practical power level that can be used without risk of transmitter instabilities.  A 100 Hz low pass filter is ap plied at baseband after the RF mixers to reduce noise and smooth out fluctations  After amplification the baseband signa ls a re sampled by an 8 channel 16 bit analog to digital converter  These samples are further processed in Labview to remove any remai ning DC offsets and ga in differences between the I an d Q channels and the appropriate phases computed as the 4 quadrant arctangent of the I and Q baseband signals   The host computer of the PCCA was used to measure both the round t rip and cross phases bet ween  two baselines namely the DSS 24/25 and the DSS 25 26 baselines One hundred b aseband I and Q samples were averaged every second to obtain smoothed estimates from which the differential phases were computed. A complete record of the cross phase behavi or of the DSS 24/25 baseline for the  entire track is shown in Fig 4 a for all three predict sets Note that the cross phase jumps to a different random va lue  each time a new predict set is loaded, since the exciters are not designed to maintain constant p hase between predict sets. However, the cros s phase remains essentially con stant throughout each predict set indicating long term stability on the order of a few degrees  for the first and second predict set \(an apparent phase drift during the third predic t set was later attributed to timing error within the PCA Fi g 4 b represents the difference of the round trip phase m easured for the same baseline N ote that the round trip 


 4  phase is not subject to phase jumps when a new predict set is loaded in since th e return sample carrier is compared to the transmitted reference carrier for the same channel, hence a change in transmitted carrier phase is not registered by the PCA only changes in phase applied after the reference coupler are registered whether they are due to an applied phase offset via the PMA or to unintended cha n ge  in  electrical pathlength due to thermal effects  It can be seen that the round trip phase remained relatively stable throughout the track  except where phase offsets were intentionall y applied to the phase modulator or Pm in Fig 4b  Similar behavior was exhibited by the DSS 25/26 baseline during this track    Fi gure 4 a  DSS 24/25 cross phase history   covering the entire track     Figure 4 b  Round trip phase history   DSS 24 phase minus DSS 25 phase, divided by two     4   U PLINK A RRAY E XPERIMENT R ESULTS   The EPOXI track started at 11:00:00 UTC when the spacecraft was at an elevation of approximately 30 degrees rising Operationally supplied  322ITT\323 frequency predicts we re used during  the first predict interval These predicts were not corrected for tropospheric variations however differential phase build up due to the troposphere was found to be insignificant above 30 degrees elevation leading at most to 20 degrees ove r the DSS 24/25 baseline. The DSS 25 transmitter  was configured for 2 kw uplink power with right hand circular polarization \(RCP\. Tr ansmission started shortly after  11:00 UTC on DOY 179 June 27 th  with a predetermined operational frequency ramp sequenc e to ensure carrier capture by the SDST phase lock loop The one way light time during this experiment was approximately 172 seconds, or 2 minutes 52 seconds, hence the first power estimate from the spacecraft was observed nearly 6 minutes after transmissi on  in Figs 5a  Data was recorded with the wide band AGC \(WBAGC\, narrow band AGC NBAGC and the carrier lock accumu lator CLA As shown in Figure 5a the CL A records we re received shortly after 11:00 SCET spacecraft event time on the spacecraft, one light time after transmission started. In these and subsequent figures the time axis refers to spacecraft time in SCET not ground time. Note that the SDST locked onto the DSS 25 signal at roughly 103 dBm of carrier power close to  the predicted value This power level was well within the linear region of the WBAGC whose resoluti on is 1.5 dB  but near the saturation region of the CL A hence the initial readings  appear ed  lower than the actual power measured by the spacecraft    Corr ections were applied to the digital numbers DN returned by the CLA  during post processing via  temperature dependent dist ortion profiles C alibration curves  for   and  baseplate temperatures  were available from  previous calibration s  however the true baseplate temperature during this experiment was approximately 42.5 deg rees, hence the corrections had to be interpolated The corrected values were used to generate the time histories of Figs 5a d  all of which are  referen ced to spacecraft event time    After the SDST locked up to the DSS 25 carrier 16 KHz upli nk modulation was enabled and a sequence of 10  No Op commands transmitted  to the spacecraft at about 11:12 SCET, recorded as a drop in CLA power from 102.7 dBm to 113 dBm in Fig 12a Since the CLA measures the carrier power only the power in the sidebands is lost to the CLA. However, since the mod index was 0.94 rads, only 5.8 dB should have been lost to modulation not the approxima tely 10 dB drop seen  in Fig 5 a One reason for this  discrepancy is that the correction curve is different for the modulated carrier but this correction curve was only available for  henc e could not be interpolated effectively to  the 42.5 degree basepl ate temperature    Following successful recepti on and acknowledgement of all ten of the first set of No Op commands by EPOXI at about 11:13 SCET the modulation on the DSS 25 carrier was turned off, the DSS 24 transmitter drive was turned on, and the sum o f the two carriers received by EPOXI at  11:18 SCET as shown in Fig 5 a The AGC readings were updated every 5 seconds, with a  r esolution of about 0.3 dB    The far field intensity produced by the two antenna uplink array can be steered over the spacecraft electronically from the ground by varying one of the transmitter phases. When the differential phase varies over the entire range of  


 5  radians, it is guaranteed that the peak of the intensity pattern illuminates the spacecraft provided the phases are stable over the duration of the sweep This power variation was  measured by the spacecraft AGC to monitor the instantaneous  carrier power  The  results of these measurements were then  relayed to the ground as engineering data and evaluated to determine the optimal phase adjustment required to phase up the signals at the spacecraft    Figure 5 a. Real time CLA data at the start of the experiment, including No Op commands and a phase ramp sequence used to estimate the optimum phase    Figure 5 b Real time CLA data first part of second predict set   Phase ramping was initiated at 11:33 SCET via the digitally controlled phase modulator on the DSS 24 channel, in order to determine the optimum phase This phase ramp technique, suitable for 322Nearby Spacecraft\323 calibration, was conducted on the DSS 24/25 baseline by ramping the DSS 24 phase from 0 to 2   radians at a rate of 2 degrees per second using the phase modulator assembly \(PMA\, and the downlinked spacecraft AGC power readings monitored in near real time at S PC 10 As can be seen in Fig 5 a this resulted in an increase in measured array power from 102.7 dBm to 97 dBm, corresponding to a two antenna array gain of 5.7 dB close to the theoretically predicted 6 dB gain Each phase ramp consists of a preamble, which is a pattern of 0 90 180 270 degrees applied for 10 seconds each to mark the beginning of the ramp sequence followed by a linear phase ramp of 2 degrees/second applied for 180 seconds, concluding with a repeat of the preamble pattern to help determine the end of the measurement sequence The phase ramp itse lf always starts and end s with  0 degrees  applied to the phase modulator  to simplify the calibration process The phase corresponding to maximum combined power is the desired calibration phase which was determined to be 260 degrees for the first phase ramp on the DSS 25/24 basel ine. After applying the optimum phase, the combined power immediately jumped to 97 dBm at 11:45 SCET, verifying two antenna power maximization   Note that around 11:40 SCET, the combined power tends to fluctuate when the phase difference between the two a ntenna carriers is large placing the combined signal on a steep part of the phase/power curve On this part of the curve the two antenna array power changes rapidly with small phase variations hence the array serves as a very sensitive instrument for me asuring tropospheric fluctuations. As de scribed in the insert in Fig. 5 a, on the part of the power/phase curve corresponding to approximately 100 degrees of differential phase error, the combined power fluctuates near the single antenna power level 103 dB m likely due to differential tropospheric delay fluctuations on the order of 1 mm over the 258m baseline    After verification of two antenna combined power magnitude and stability, the first sequence of  ten \322arrayed\323 No Op commands were transmitted to EPOXI  by the two antenna array at approximately 11:50 SCET Since the uplink subcarrier is 16 KHz, corresponding to a wavelength of 18.75 km the maximum differential delay between any two antennas in the Apollo complex never exceeds 0.5 km/18.75 km = 0.0 27 wavelengths, hence can be neglected this means that delay compensation is not required \(0.5 km is the maximum extent of the array along the DSS 24/26 baseline Therefore the modulation was distributed to all three antennas via an active three way sp litter/amplifier signal distribution assembly constructed especially for this purpose   The first  predict set ended at 12:00:00 UTC and approximately 3 minutes later at the spacecraft due to the one way light time  difference   For the second trackin g int erval custom p ointing vector based frequency predicts were selected because these predicts were derived specifically for array applications and hence yielded consistent range and velocity estimates The events of the second predict i nterval are depicted in Figs. 5 b and c. After the pointing vector predicts were started a phase ramp calibration was initiated at 12:15 SCET from which the optimum offset was determined to be 112 degrees which indeed maximized the combined power at EPOXI at 96.9 dBm after application via the PMA Next the DSS 26 transmitter was turned on and the signal reached EPOXI just before 12:43 SCET. The second phase ramp on DSS 26 was initiated in order to calibrate the three antenna array however a total power variation of only a bout 1 dB was 


 6  observed, instead of the expected 9.5 dB. Further tests led to the realization that the polarization of DSS 26 was accidentally set to LCP instead of RCP, causing large losses in received power from this station    Figure 5 c  Real time CLA data second part of second predict set    Figure 5 d Real time CLA data last part of the experiment, third predict set   To help determine the cause of the power drop, the DSS 24 transmitter was turned off at a pproximately 13:00 SCET Fig 5 b and a p hase ramp applied to the DSS 26 PMA which also produced only small power variations After ruling out transmitter power anomalies and antenna pointing errors, it was postulated that DSS 26 may have been set up in the wrong polarization LCP instead of RCP  thi s was indeed found to be the case    After the DSS 26 polarization was reset to RCP another two antenna phase ramp was initiated on the DSS 25/26 baseline and the expected two antenna response observed starting at 13:15 SCET Following calibration along this baseline the DSS 24 transmitte r was turned back on and  the combined three antenna power jumped to 93.6 dBm at about 13:36 SCET close to the theoretical ly expected combined power of 93.3 dBm Since the DSS 24/25 baseline was already calibrat ed and the frequency predicts maintained constant phase at the spacecraft this pairwise two antenna c alibration process successfully completed the three antenna calibration process    S uccessful three antenna calibration via the pairwise method was follo wed by a phase symmetry test at 13:48 SC ET  Fig 5c  where at first DSS 24 power was turned off followed by DSS 26 to measure the single antenna power of DSS 25, then the power of each was turned back on in the opposite order. Th e relatively small asymme try of the shoulders indicates somewhat better phase alignment along the DSS 24/25 baseline than along the DSS 25/26 baseline which could account for some array gain loss Another set of 10 No Op commands were transmitted with the three antenna array  at 13:56 SCET all of which were successfully received by EPOXI    Starting at about 14:10 SCET, the DSS 24/25 baseline was recalibrated to reduce any small phase drifts that may have occurred since the last calibration in order to initiate the following thre e antenna calibration process With this approach  a calibrated baseline is viewed as a single antenna, and the third antenna is phase ramped to maximize the array power Since a calibrated baseline consists of t he sum of two carrier magnitudes  but phase ramping of the third antenna can only cancel out one of them the combined power varies between the three antenna and single antenna powers as the phase ramp progresses, never reaching a null  this type of phase ram p pattern can indeed be seen in Fig 5 c starting at about 14:30 SCET. Another set of 10 No Op commands were transmitted at 14:45 SCET, before the end of the second frequency predict set at 15:00 UTC   For the third and final predict interval the ITT predicts were loaded in once again to obtain similar total data volumes for compariso n three hours of data for the p ointing vector based predicts, two and a half hours total for the ITT predicts\, and to facilitate more accurate comparison of data both at the beginning and the end of the long second  predict interval In the third predict interval the three antenna calibration was repeated three antenna stability data was collected and one more set of No Op commands were successfully transmitted to EPOXI   5   S UMMARY AND C ONCLUSIONS  The first stab le arraying of X band carriers at interplanetary distances from up to three operational antennas has been demonstrated experimentally with the EPOXI spacecraft, on June 27 2008 The experiment was carried out under realistic operational conditions at the Goldstone Deep Space Communications  Complex using the 34 meter  antennas located at DSS 24 DSS 25 and DSS 26 of the Apollo complex Doppler compensated X band carriers were transmitted to the spacecraft and the concept of phase optimization to maximize r eceived signal power demonstrated through the use of a novel phase ramping algorithm suitable for operational use with future geo stationary satellites or lunar and 322nearby spacecraft\323 transponders Power maximization was achieved after each phase ramp v alidating the predicted array gain  A total of fifty No Op commands were transmitted to EPOXI at the maximum rate  of 2 kbps  all of which were received and 


 7  acknowledged by the spacecraft Differential phase remained stable during the entire experiment pro ving that the newly developed array frequency predicts were sufficiently accurate to enable future operational uplink arraying   Acknowledgements The authors w ould like to thank Chris Jacobs JPL for providing the accurate VLBI derived position vectors for the Apollo cluster phase centers Jonathan Walthers contributed t o this effort by developing SPS predicts and helped to analyze various experimental sc enarios Ryan Mukai deserves credit for significant contributions to the development of the LabView code used in the Phase Comparator and Control Assembly and for simulating the Apollo cluster far field array patterns of Fig 4;  we thank Jim Taylor for  providing the original WBAGC and CLA SNR data records from the Telemetry Delivery Subsystem, shown i n Figs. 10 and 11   R EFERENCES  1 V Vilnrotter D  Lee T Cornish R Mukai and L Paal 322Uplink Array ing  Experiment with the Mars Global Surveyor Spacecraft,\323 IPN Progress Report 42 166, August 15, 2006   2 V. Vilnrotter, D. Lee, R. Mukai, T. Cornish P. Tsao 322 Three antenna Doppler delay Imaging Of The Crater Tycho For Uplink Array  Calibration Applications 323 IPN Progress Report 42 169, May 15, 2007   3 L. Paal, R. Mukai, V. Vilnrotter, T. Cornish, and D Lee 322 Ground System Phase Estimation Techniques for Uplink Array Applications 323  IPN Progress Report 42 167, November 15, 2006   4 Vilnrotter Mukai Lee 322Uplink Array Calibration via Far Field Power Maximization\323 IPN Progress Report 42 164, February 15, 2006   5 V. Vilnrotter, D. Lee, R. Mukai, T Cornish, P. Tsao 322 Doppler Delay Calibration of Uplink Ar rays via Far Field Moon Bounce  Power  Maximization 323 Proceedings of the 11 th ISCOPS   Conference, Beijing May 15, 2007  B IOGRAPHY  Victor Vilnrotter  M'79 SM\32502 received his Ph.D in electrical engineering and communications theory from the University of Southern California in 1978  He joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena Calif., in 1979, where he is a Principal  E ngineer in the Communicat ions Systems Research section H is research interests include  electronic compensation of large antennas with focal plane arrays adaptive combining algorithms for large antenna arrays optical communications thr ough atmospheric turbulence  the application  of quantum communications  to deep space optical link s  and the development of uplink array calibration amnd tracking technologi es  He has published extensively in conferences and refereed journals and has received numerous NASA awards for technical innova tions    Dennis K. Lee S\32597 M\32598\ earned his B.S. from Case Western Reserve University in 1997 and his M.S. from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1998 both in Electrical Engineering  Since 1999, he has been a member of technical staff in the Digital Signal Processing Research group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory  Currently, his research interests include bandwidth efficient modulations and high rate signal processing  Timothy Cornish  received a B.S degree in Electrical Engineering from Illinois Institute of Technology in 1995 He has been employed in private industry in the high power transmitter field for over 15 years in positions ranging from Design Engineer to Engineering Departm ent Manager. During that time he was responsible for system engineering and project management in the development of the 4 kW X band High Power Amplifier recently in use in the Deep Space Network 34m Beam Waveguide Stations  Timothy joined the Jet Propulsi on Laboratory in 2000 as a Transmitter Design Engineer in the Communications Ground Systems Section and is currently System Engineer for the Deep Space Network Uplink Subsystem In his position as Transmitter Design Engineer he was responsible for the desi gn of the 20 kW X Band High Power Amplifier currently in use in the Deep Space Network 34m Beam Waveguide Stations  Philip Tsao  is a member of the Communications Networks Group at JPL He received a BEE from Georgia Tech in 1999 and an MSEE from Caltech i n 2001 where he pursued research in collective robotics From 2001 and 2005 he was a Systems Engineer with Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems where he supported radar software and mixed signal circuit design efforts      


 8  L eslie Paal  is a member of the Sys tems Engineering Group at JPL.  He received a B.S in Computer Science and after years in the commercial world he joined JPL in 1985 where he is a Senior Engineer  At JPL he has been leading software hardware and technology development programs as well as performing telecommunication engineer duties for operational mission  His interest is in ground station equipment automation, and unattended operations   Vahraz Jamnejad  is a principal scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his M.S and Ph.D in electrical engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana specializing in electromagnetics and antennas. At JPL he has been engaged in research and software and hardware development in various areas of spacecraft and ground base station antenna technologies and satellite communication systems In addition he has been  active in research in parallel computational Electroma gnetics optimization techniques and evolutionary programming for antenna system design and optimization. He is involved in the study of calibration techniques for the uplink arrays for the DSN the  development of Space Science Service SRS near  far  field  antenna models for the International  Telecommunications Union  and studies  of near field radia tion effects of large antenna 


what time of day they considered the most important they answered in unison Sign-out Here, the doctors update their respective resident and senior notes. Each intern and senior resident will report on their patients to their on-call colleague, the doctor staying in the hospital over night. Their conversations focus on the patients that need the most attention during the night, difficult orders and other urgent tasks. It is a time to recount the work done in the course of the day and establish an itinerary for the night. Likewise, the other meetings engage the participants in dialog about individual cases and/or how to manage all patients under their collective care  Tensions tend to escalate when a document cycle does not start or end with a reflective encounter Interns quarrel locally about the content of their resident notes during sign-out and attending doctors scold residents during rounds; but it is nothing compared to the anger doctors and nurses express when receiving a document from another setting countering their expectations and with no chance to clarify the problem Primary care doctors regularly complain that the discharge summaries that they receive from other health care settings lack information significant to them. One primary care doctor, Frida, with 18 years tenure grumbled one afternoon about a discharge summary, she had received that afternoon from a surgeon who had set her patient s leg after a skiing accident a few days earlier. The teenager, Jacob showed up in her clinic with a swollen leg and a rash After examining Jacob, Frida explained to the ethnographer This is a crappy note [from the surgeon It s no help to me. He [the surgeon does n o t ev en tell m e  what antibiotic he gave Jacob [post operation an d how much. I have no way of telling whether the rash he presents with today is related to the antibiotics  Frida calls the surgeon s office to clarify the issue. The surgeon has left his clinic at 3:00pm. His discharge summary does not provide her enough information to help her diagnose the problem. A flow sheet filled out during the surgery most likely contains the information Frida needs. However, in the discharge papers the surgeon summarized his setting of the leg but does not describe the administration of antibiotic post surgery that to him is probably an inconsequential routine Dialog and reflective encounters play a central role in each document cycle. The dialog allows a heterogeneous groups of healthcare professionals with different responsibilities and routines to mend the relationship between the background knowledge people bring to Anna s care and the degree to which documents explicate relevant participants, times places, content, and form. Such discussions also allow doctors and nurses to question patients history and their care. By engaging with patients histories people with different perspectives on care can suggest changes to the configuration of participants times, places and data relevant for the patient Document cycles lacking routine reflective encounters often leave little chance for the different constituencies to clarify their position and repair the relations between documents and their users 5. Discussion More than ten years ago Star and Ruhdeler [1  o r a practic ebas e d approach to organizational infrastructure and knowledge flows  one that does not depict system integration as a substrate: something upon which something else runs or operates \(e.g., railway system\. Studying how doctors and nurses integrate documents, whether electronic or paper-based, in the course of their daily work allows us to extend such an approach to system integration We find that doctors and nurses continuously transform documents making them relevant to a particular set of participants, times and places. In doing so they adjust the relationship between how much documents explicate and the background knowledge required from the readers. Two such transformations stand out as central First, doctors and nurses engage in a number of cyclical transformations, within which they oscillate between documents addressing a broader and narrower audiences \(see figure 1 and 2\. In doing so they manage to straddle the demands of local work practices and the needs to coordinate with other teams in other times and places Second, as summarized in figures 1 and 2 one finds a number of transformations between the cyclical organized documents \(e.g., nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes, senior notes, etc\d documents peripheral to the cycles e.g., lab work, flow sheets, orders, etc.\ and nurses use their document cycles as the clearing station for a host of document systems. The cyclical organized documents allow people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices. At the same time they draw from their cyclical documents to produce other non-cyclical documents. For instance, Marc and other doctors integrate test results from the laboratory Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


system into their brain notes and later the residence note system. Likewise, they write orders and other request information based on their brain notes The existing literature allows us to capture only parts of these cyclical transformations. Latour and Woolgar [1 d Kn orrC e t i n a 22] w o rk des c ri bes the individual transformations well. The concept of communicative genres of f e rs i n s i gh ts to th e  individual documents and how they might be linked into sequentially organized genre systems. Likewise we could conceive of the documents in the present case as boundary objects bridging the relations among different communities  The cyclical patterns reported here, however present an opportunity to integrate these related practice-based research streams. The concept of communicative genres, for instance, supplements descriptions of document transformation in document cycles. Furthermore, the findings suggest the existence of multiple document types playing different roles in knowledge flows. Boundary objects may not stand alone in knowledge sharing across communities. Rather, they seem to interact with a host of other documents. For instance, one could argue that lab results serve as a boundary object for many groups caring for Anne. As a repository each group can draw from and contribute to the lab result system. Yet, this boundary object does not stand alone. Only when we see the lab result system in relation to the use of nurse management plans, brain notes, intern notes and senior notes do we understand the intricate knowledge flow. The boundary object is but on cog in a larger document machinery Reflection and dialog play central parts in the cyclical integration of documents. Confirming findings in the boundary object literature, conflicts are prone to surface when people from different professions, sub-specialties, or local organizational cultures negotiate their often diverging approaches to patient care [3, 4, 32 R e f l ectiv e en co u n t er s allo w  collaborators to recalibrate the reciprocal relationship between documents and organizational members \(i.e document explicates and background knowledge\At the same time these interactions serve as a staging ground for questions that may broaden or narrow the collective work practices. Doctors and nurses may question whether they need more information about the patient s medical history or consider alternative treatment plans. The meetings secure an ongoing reflection on the appropriate course of Anna s care Much like a hermeneutic process, doctors and nurses engage with parts of patients care only to return to a broader picture to interpret the integration of its parts. The movement of their understanding and writing, then, is a constant moving from the whole to its parts and back to the whole [9, 33  Finally, the document cycles offers a window into the institutional structure of the hospital and the temporal and spatial organization of work. We notice how the cycles support departmental divisions and the temporal structure of work in the institution Without these document cycles it would be impossible to maintain the high level of complexity where multiple professions and subdisciplines work together, with somebody present to knowledgably care for Anna 6. Conclusion & Implications The study identifies a cyclical pattern to the knowledge flow in a heterogeneous information systems environment. Drawing on data from the healthcare industry we describe how doctors and nurses organize a host of document systems around a central cyclical pattern involving an oscillation between addressing a broader and narrower configuration of participants, times, places, and content. Numerous documents feed to and from the cyclically organized documents. The constant transformation from one document to the next allows organizational members to manage the reciprocal relationship between how much documents explicate their use and how much background knowledge readers need to bring to the document. This relationship is brittle and despite the many transformations among documents it often breaks down. The research suggests that organizational members build opportunities for dialog into the document cycles in an effort to patch any possible breaks in knowledge sharing The present research is not without limits. It relies on a single in-depth ethnographic study, thereby subjecting it to a set of well-known limitations, most notably restricted empirical generalizability. Despite the limitations, the research has implications for research and practice. First, to fully take advantage of our cyclical notion of documents and integrate the existing practice-based theories require more theoretical and empirical work. For instance, what cyclical patterns do we find beyond the healthcare industry? Second, future research will have to explore how efforts to standardize medical information and facilitate retrieval can coexist with cyclical documenting practices In regard to practice, system design may gain from supporting a host of document types and allow people to transform one document into another document characterized by different configurations of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


participants, times, places, content, and form. Across documents the content may be deceivingly alike. Yet one must keep in mind that each document manages an intricate reciprocal relationship between how much the document explicate and the background knowledge people bring to its use Finally, system designers may distinguish circular integration of documents and documents feeding to and from the cycles. People use their central cycles to manage many other document systems. The cycle allows people to transform data from peripheral documents into something useful for their immediate work practices  7. References 1 S. L  Sta r a nd K  R u h d e l e r  S te ps tow a r d a n e c ology  infrastructure: Design and access for large information spaces ISR vol. 7, pp. 111 - 134, 1996 2 L  T  K ohn, J  M. C o rrig a n a nd M. S. D o na lds o n T o Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System Washington, DC: Institute of Medicine, 1999 3  P. R Ca rlile  A P r a g m a tic V i e w of Know le dg e a n d  Boundaries: Boundary Objects in New Product Development Org. Science vol. 13, pp. 442-455, 2002 4 N  L e v i na a nd E Va a s t T h e em e r g e nc e of bounda r y  spanning competence in practice: Implications for implementation and use of information systems MIS Quarterly vol. 29, pp. 335-363, 2005 5 S L  Sta r a n d J R. G r ie se m e r I nstituti ona l Ec ol og y   Translations' and Boundary Objects Social Studies of Science vol. 19, pp. 387-420, 1989  C Bazerm an  S y s t e m o f g e n r es an d t h e en act m e n t o f  social intentions," in Genre and the New Rhetoric A Freedman and P. Medway, Eds. London: Taylor & Francis 1995, pp. 79-104 7 J. Yates & W  Orlik o w sk i Gen re Sy st e m s: Stru ctu rin g  Interaction through Communicative Norms Journal of Business Communication vol. 39, pp. 13-35, 2002 8 C  U  C i bor r a a n d R  A ndr e u  S ha r i ng K now le dg e  across Boundaries Journal of Information Technology  vol. 16, pp. 73-81, 2001  R Han s en and J Ren n ecker Co llective Her m en eu tics in a Systems Development Process Sprouts: Working Papers on Information Systems vol. 6 pp http://sprouts.aisnet.org/6-6 2006 10 R. J  Bola nd, R V. T e nk a s i, a nd D  T e e ni D e s ig ning Information Technology to Support Distributed Cognition Organization Science vol. 5, pp. 456-475, 1994 11 G  De Sa nc tis  M  P o ole   C a p turi ng the C o m p le x i t y  in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory Org. Science vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 1 B  Lat o u r and S  Wo ol gar   Laboratory Life: The construction of scientific Facts Princeton: Princenton University Press, 1986 13 J  G  Ma r c h H o w de c i s i ons ha ppe n in org a niz a tio ns   Human-Computer Interaction vol. 6, pp. 95-117, 1991 14 R. Harp er Inside the IMF: An ethnography of documents, technology, and organizational action San Diego: Academic Press, 1998 15 M  S  F e l d m a n   Order without design: Information production and policy making Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1989 1 K Wei c k  Sense making in organizations Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1995 17 J  S. B r ow n a nd P. D u g u id  B orde rli n e Is s u e s   Human-Computer Interaction vol. 9, pp. 3-36, 1994 18 D E. Sm ith Institutional Ethnography: A sociology for people Oxford: AltaMira Press, 2005 1 C sterlu nd  Do cu m e n t s in P l ace: De m a rc atin g Places for Collaboration in Healthcare Settings CSCW  vol. 17, pp. 195-225, 2008 20 C   s t e r lu nd  G e n re Com b ina t i ons  A W i ndow into  Dynamic Communication Practices Journal of Management of Information Systems \(JMIS vol. 23, pp 81-108, 2007 2 N M  Dixo n   Common knowledge : how companies thrive by sharing what they know Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2000 22 K  Kn o rr Ceti n a  The Manufacture of Knowledge: An essay on the constructivist and contexutal nature of science Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1981 23 R. J  J  B o la n d  A n Ec ology o f D i s t ribute d  P r a c tic e  Involving Knowledge Work," in The Social Study of Information and Communication Technology: Innovation Actors, and Contexts C. Avgerou, C. Ciborra, and F. Land Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2004 24 M  A g ar Speaking of Ethnography Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1986 25 J  Va n Ma a n e n  T he Fa c t of Fic tio n i n O r g a niz a tiona l  Ethnography ASQ vol. 24, pp. 539-550, 1979 26 M  B  M i l e s a n d A  M  H u b e r m a n   Qualitative Data Analysis: A Sourcebook of New Methods Beverly Hills Sage Publications, 1984 27  S. R  B a rle y T e c hnolo g y a s a n O c ca s i on f o r Structuring: Evidence from Observation of CT Scanners and the Social Order of Radiology Departments ASQ vol 31, pp. 78-108, 1986 28 M. L  Ma rk us T o w a r d a  T h e o ry of K now le dg e Reuse: Types of Knowledge Reuse Situations and Factors in Reuse Success Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 18, pp. 57 - 94, 2001 29 W  J. Orlik o w sk i  K now ing in pra c tic e  Ena c ting  a  collective capability in distributed organizing Organization Science vol. 13, pp. 249 273, 2002 30 C  ste r lu nd a n d P. Ca rlil e   R e l a tions i n  P r a c tic e   Sorting through practice theories on knowledge sharing in complex organizations The Information Society vol. 21 pp. 91-107, 2005 31 L  A  S u c h m a n   Plans and Situated Actions: The problem of human-machine communication Cambridge Cambridge University Press, 1987 3  M  S  A c ker m an an d C H a l v erso n  Organ i zat i o n a l  Memory: Processes, Boundary Objects, & Trajectories CSCW vol. 13, pp. 155-189, 2004 33 R  J  B o la n d  I nf orm a t i on Sy s t em U s e a s a  hermeneutic process," in Information Systems Research Contemporary Approaches and Emergent Traditions H.-E Nissen, H. K. Klein, and R. A. Hirchheim, Eds Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1991, pp. 439-464  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 
 


  12 order, where the Ares V and th e Altair have been placed in LEO prior to the crew launc h, as the launch opportunities expires, pressure could be placed on launch controllers to relax the Ares I launch rules in order to avoid the loss of the Ares V stack in orbit  Table 12. Comparison of Other Considerations Case Cost to Provide Added Loiter Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 0  V-I 4-Day Loiter 0 226  MMOD Protection 226  PV Arrays 226  Additional propellant for re-boost and attitude control  Table 13. Summary Comparison of Final Cases Case PnSL Expected Vehicle Replacement Cost per Crewed Mission Ares I Stack Equiv  Cost to Provide Added Loiter Added PLOC Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 5.4% 0.05 AI 0 1  6,092   V-I 4-Day Loiter 4.7 0.14 AI 0 Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1B In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1.9% 0.06 AI 1B Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter  


  13 Second, differences exist in the programmatic consequences between the loss of an Ares I stack and an Ares V stack beyond the replacement cost. Ares I and Orion flight rates could be relatively high to support ISS and lunar missions Replacing one of these stacks would be a matter of accelerating the next launch vehi cle in the pipeline. For the Ares V and Altair, however the replacement could involve more significant delays. The Ares V itself would be a more expensive and more complex vehicle to replace. The Altair lander presents the greatest complexities. A limited number of landers will be produced for the lunar campaign Acquiring an additional repl acement lander could involve the reopening of production lines. In addition, each Altair will be unique to some degree because of the mission objectives and the cargo that it carries. Finally, the cargo itself would need to be repl aced in the event of a loss Summary Comparison Table 13 summarizes the comparison of the three launch options. In this table, the cells that indicate potential negative aspects for each case are highlighted I-V 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The I-V launch order case resulted in the highest PnSL of the three final cases, with a probability of a missed second launch of 5.4 per mission. However, because of the low cost of failure for this case, it also had the lowest expected vehicle replacement cost at 0.05 AI per mission V-I 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The V-I option with 4-day EDS and Orion loiter has a PnSL that is similar to that for the I-V option at 4.7%. The PnSL for this case was somewhat lower due to the lower complexity of the second launch vehicle. This case, however, resulted in the greatest expected cost of failure at 0.14 AI. In addition, the V-I launch order includes the additional considerations that involve the pressure to relax flight rules and the difficulty in replacing an Ares V stack V-I 14-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227 Of the three options, the V-I 14-day EDS loiter case presented the best PnSL value. The 1.9% PnSL wa s less than half the PnSL for either of the 4-day loiter cas es. However, because of the high cost of failure, the overall expected vehicle replacement cost per mission was similar to that of the I-V 4-day case In evaluating this case, the primary concern, however, was over the other required costs Because of the added boil-off propellant and other described EDS complexities required to support this duration, the baseline 51.0.48 Ares V option was no longer viable. The 51.0.47 Ares V option, with an upgraded capacity, would be required. The DDT&E costs for this upgrade would be large. The cost difference for the Ares V upgrade alone is estimated to be greater than $1B. In addition, the costs to upgrade the EDS, including photovoltaic arrays and MMOD protection, would be added. Although these are one-time DDT&E costs rather than recurring costs, they occu r in a phase of the program where the budget is most restricted In addition, the 51.0.47 design for the Ares V has been reserved as an option in case it is needed because of mass growth or performance uncertainty for the transportation system. If the upgraded design is adopted in the baseline to support a 14-day loiter and a more complex EDS, then no current options are available to provide a hedge against mass growth or performance uncertainty in the transportation system. While further upgrades to the EDS are possible, these upgrades were not considered desirable when the 51.0.48 and 51.0.47 options were down-selected for further consideration by the Constellation Program Because of the requirement to upgrade the Ares V to the 51.0.47 option, as well as the added complexity of the EDS stage, the V-I 14-day loiter case was removed from consideration for the 1\275-launc h launch operational concept While this option offers a significantly lesser PnSL than the other two options at 1.9% ve rsus 4.7% - 5.4%, the added costs and risks associated with this option, particularly costs during the crucial DDT&E period, were determined to be unacceptable. This opinion was reinforced by the results for total expected replacement cost While the V-I 14-day loiter case has a low PnSL, because of the high consequence of failure, the total expected replacement cost was actually somewhat greater than for the I-V 4-day loiter case 10  S ELECTION OF 1 1  2 L AUNCH P OINT OF D EPARTURE O PERATIONAL C ONCEPT  As described previously, the V-I 14-day loiter case was determined by decision makers to involve too much added cost and risk to justify the resultant improvement in PnSL The decision was reinforced by the fact that the second primary metric, the expected cost of failure, was not improved by the V-I case with a longer loiter period The two final cases, the I-V 4-day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter, were compared; the I-V launch order was selected for the baseline point-of-depar ture architecture The PnSL values, which represent the probability of a failure event during the dual launch phase, were similar for the I-V and V-I cases, at 5.4% and 4.7%, respectively. The expected replacement cost per mission was significantly lower for the I-V case, howev er. Even with the cost uncertainty, the I-V case clearly would likely always result in a lower total cost Crew safety was a major consideration in selecting between the two cases. A clear, quantifia ble added risk to the crew exists in selecting the I-V launch order. The crew would be required to endure an additiona l set of launch, loiter, and EDL events in the case of a missed second launch 


  14 However, because the probab ility of loss of crew is conditional to the PnSL, the overall added risk of 1 in 6,092 is considered to be quite small. This is particularly true when the added risk is compared with the overall risks to the crew that are anticipated for a human lunar mission In addition, although they could not be quantified at this point in time, additional crew risks are associated with the V-I launch order. Although no determination can be made at this point whether these range safety risks may be similar in magnitude to the added risks in the I-V case, they certainly cannot be totally discounted The selected I-V case with a 4-day loiter and 90-minute separation offered the most balanced results across the FOMs that were used in this study. The PnSL of 5.4% was larger than other cases but sim ilar to the PnSL that could be achieved in any case if the Ares V was limited to the 51.0.48 option. The consequence of failure in this case was much less than for the V-I case, which resulted in an expected cost of less than ha lf of that for the V-I launch order In addition, the other complexities that were associated with the V-I launch order\226potential pressure to relax flight rules and the disruptions caused by having to replace an Ares V\226 also trended toward the selection of the I-V launch order 11  P OINT OF D EPARTURE AND U NCERTAINTY  Note that the selected 1\275-launch operational concept represents only a point-of-departu re architecture to be used as a baseline for ongoing lunar architecture studies. It does not represent a final selection of launch order, separation, or loiter period, and NASA is taking no steps to preclude a change in the operational concept in the future In fact, because of the uncerta inty that is involved in the initial design and costing, the possibility exists that, upon further refinement, the parame ters that drive this study could change to a degree that would cause the operational concept to be reconsidered In addition, significant uncertainty exists in the data that were used to generate the Pn SL results in C-RAST. Because the Ares V is still in the early stages of design, large amount of uncertainty still exists as to the launch reliability for the vehicle. As the design matures and more accurate estimates of reliability become available, the operations concept could also be reconsidered In fact, it may ultimately be desirable to develop a 1\275launch system that allows for launch in either order. For the purposes of this study, the Ares V reliability and, therefore the PnSL were treated as consta nt values. Because there is a limited test program for the Ares V before the crewed lunar mission begins, there is liable to be significant growth in reliability for the Ares V over a number of missions. If the initial reliability is low, then the desire would be to launch the Ares V first so that the crew is not launched unnecessarily. Because the values used in this analysis represent the mature steady-stat e estimates, the PnSL for the I-V options could be worse than predicted in this analysis for some number of early missions. If the initial reliability is significantly lower, then it may be desirable to launch initial missions in a V-I order and then switch to I-V as reliability improves To address this uncertainty, an additional set of analyses was completed. In this uncertainty analysis, calculations were made to determine how much each major input parameter would have to change in order to cause the launch option decision to change, if that decision were made on expected replacement cost alone. The analysis was conducted by comparing the final two options: the I-V 4day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter cases The results of the uncertainty analysis are shown in Table 14. In this table, the current estimate used for each major parameter is listed. Then, the value for each parameter at which the launch order decision \(based on the expected cost of failure\would switch is listed. Generally, the required shifts are large, although the required changes in Table 14 are for single variables only. Simultaneous changes of multiple parameters that are lower in magnitude could also cause a change in the launch order decision The greatest level of uncertain ty in the current analysis involves the transportation element replacement costs Because of the uncertainty involving fixed and marginal costs for Altair and because of the uncertain nature of cost estimates in early design large shifts could potentially occur in the cost data for all elements as the designs mature Table 14. Sensitivity of Launc h Order Decision to Major Parameters Parameter Current Estimate Value at Which Launch Order Would Switch \(if all other values remain constant PnSL I-V 4-day loiter 5.4% 13.5 PnSL V-I 14-day loiter 4.7% 1.9 Cost of Ares I Stack 1.00 AI 2.5 AI Cost of Ares V Stack 2.88 AI 1.15 AI  


  15 In order to represent the impact of uncertainty in the cost data, a \223breakeven\224 cost ratio was determined. The important factor in compari ng expected costs for the I-V and V-I launch orders is not the absolute costs of the Ares I and Ares V stacks but rather the relative costs between the two. Given the predicted PnSL values for the I-V and V-I cases, any set of cost data in wh ich the cost of the Ares V is greater than 115% of the cost of the Ares I will result in the expected replacement cost pe r mission for the I-V option being lower. This relationship is depicted graphically in Figure 6 Figure 6 can be used to determine the resultant optimal launch order for any set of Ares I and Ares V stack replacement costs, based on mini mizing the expected cost of failure. The cost of the Ares V stack is specified on the horizontal axis, and the cost of the Ares I stack is specified on the vertical axis. The sloping red line in the center of the figure represents the break-even cost boundary. If the set of costs is below this line in the light-blue region, then the I-V launch order is preferable. If the set of costs are above the red line in the light-green region, then the V-I launch order is preferable The intent of Figure 6 is to provide a visual indication of how much change could occur in the cost estimates before the launch order decision would be reconsidered. The current cost estimates are represented as a vertical bar on the chart. The Ares I cost is fixed at 1.00 AI. The Ares V cost is represented as a range of 1.65 to 2.88 AI, which represents the full range that is produced by the possible inclusion of fixed costs Across the range of current co st estimates, a large margin still exists before the break-eve n point is reached. Even with no fixed costs included for the Ares V, the Ares V cost would have to decrease by 32%, or the Ares I cost would have to increase by 47% for the cost of failure to be equal for the two cases. These changes seem to be outside the current range of cost uncertainty The Constellation Program has initiated an action to monitor the key parameters identified in this analysis as the transportation element designs continue to mature. If the designs reach a state at wh ich the selected point-ofdeparture operational concept is called into question, then this baseline may be updated 12  S UMMARY  The initial specification of an operational concept for the 1\275-launch solution was largely based on three assumptions First, there was a \223gut reaction\224 that one would not want to risk launching a crew until the EDS and lander were safely in orbit. Second, the assumption was made that the probability of missing the second launch could be substantially reduced by providing a long loiter period for  Figure 6 \226 Relative Ares I and Ares V Stack Costs 


  16 the EDS. Finally, with long EDS loiter periods, the assumption was made that a 24-hour launch separation would have no significant impact on mission success More detailed analysis indicat ed that all three of these assumptions were not entirely accurate. The added risk to the crew, dictated by the c onditional probability of enduring a second launch and encountering a loss-of-crew event, was quite small, especially as compared with the total risk for a human lunar mission The ability to use added loiter to reduce PnSL was largely limited by the Ares V capabilities. Loiter periods of more than four days would require a change to the selected Ares V option \(significantly increasing DDT&E and unit cost and would substantially increase the complexity of the EDS Finally, with shorter loiter periods, the 24-hour launch separation significantly increased the probability of no second launch. The increase in PnSL outweighed the advantages of having a long separation between the launches Taking these limitations into account, the assumed launch order, launch separation, and lo iter duration were called into question. A structured methodology to evaluate the probability of failure, the cost of failure, and the risk to the crew allowed NASA decision makers to methodically compare the options and to se lect a point-of-departure for 1\275-launch operations that would result in the best expected mission performance Loiter durations of greater than four days were determined to be nonviable. The added cost and complexity of the Ares V and the EDS, particularly during the DDT&E period would impose significant affo rdability issues. Although the PnSL could be substantially reduced by increasing the loiter, these improvements did not justify the added complexity With loiter periods limited to four days or less, the 24-hour launch separation was also determined to be nonviable Although switching to a 90-minute separation would impose some operational complexity at launch and could impose some additional risk to the crew in a V-I launch order, these factors were outweighed by the significant penalty to PnSL Finally, the launch order itself was evaluated. With a 4-day loiter, both launch orders resulted in similar values for PnSL. The I-V order would result in some added crew risk in the event of a missed launch, but the magnitude of the added risk was determined to be quite small, especially because the crew would face some indeterminate added flight hazard risk in the V-I option as well. The major discriminator between launch orders was in the expected cost of failure. Because a 1\275-l aunch failure in the V-I order would result in the loss of an Ares V, the EDS, and the Altair lander, the consequence of failure is quite high. A failure in the I-V launch order would result in substantially lower costs to replace the Ares I and an Orion service module and refurbish an Orion crew module. The result of the large difference in relative co sts is that the expected cost of failure is substantially lower for the I-V launch order The results of the study allowed decision makers to select a I-V launch order, with a 90-minute separation and a 4-day EDS/Orion LEO loiter period as the point-of-departure operational concept. This concept will serve as the baseline for ongoing lunar mission development. However, as designs mature and the major parameters used in this analysis are refined, the operational concept for the 1\275launch solution will be further evaluated R EFERENCES    223Expl orat i on Sy st em s Archi t ect ure St udy   Fi nal  R e port 224  NASA-TM-2005-214062, November 2005. url http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/constellation/news/E SAS_report.html   Doug C ooke, \223Lunar Archi t ect ure Updat e\224 Nat i onal  Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2007. url http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/190083main_AIAA_ESMD_fin alSPACE2007.pdf 3 Gran t Cates, W illiam Cirillo an d Ch el Stro m g ren   223Lo w  earth orbit rendezvous strategy for lunar missions,\224 Proceedings of the I EEE 2006 Winter Simulation Conference ed. L.F. Perrone, F.P. Weiland, J. Liu, and B.G. Lawson, Piscataway, NJ, 2006, pp. 1248-1252  Phil Sum r all, Steve Creech, \223R efinements in the Design of the Ares V Cargo Launch Vehicle for NASA\222s Exploration Strategy\224,  AIAA 2008-4981, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Chel Stromgren currently serves as the Chief Scientist of the Center for Strategic Analytics at Science Application International Corporation \(SAIC\ this role Mr. Stromgren leads the development of probability and risk-based strategic models and strategic analysis of complex system development. Mr Stromgren has supported NASA in the analysis of Space Shuttle and International Sp ace Station operations in the post-Columbia environment and has led the development of strategic campaign models for the lunar exploration initiatives. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Marine Engineering and Naval Architecture from the Webb 


  17 Institute and a Master of Science degree in Systems Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Grant Cates is a Senior Operations Research Analyst at SAIC. He retired from NASA in 2006 after 25 combined years in federal service, including 7 years on active duty in the Air Force. At NASA he served in varying capacities on the Space Shuttle Program, including Space Shuttle Columbia Vehicle Manager and Flow Director He received a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Central Florida in 2004 William Cirillo currently serves as a Senior Researcher at NASA Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia, where he has worked for past 20 years in the area of Human Space Flight Systems Analysis. This has included studies of Space Shuttle, International Space Station, and Human Exploration beyond low Earth orbit. In 2005, Mr. Cirillo served at NASA Headquarters as a core member of the Exploration Systems Architecture Study \(E SAS\, where he was responsible for studying the use of Ares I/Orion in meeting future ISS crew and logistics transportation needs. Mr Cirillo currently leads a team of analysts within the NASA Constellation Program in assessing at a strategic and tactical level the manifesting of assembly and logistics flights for establishing permanent human presence on the Moon 


Figure 11  HIIAPS Data Processing Flow of previous processing systems HIIAPS would both reduce the costs and risk of creating a new processing center Storage Media Disk vs Tape Initially EOSDIS used tape-based storage Now it is slowly transitioning to disk based storage 31 34 T ape is easily transportable has faster read/write speeds but it is sequential access storage and a nearline media 36 37 On the other hand disk has a higher storage capacity per unit makes the data easily accessible online experiences more frequent technology upgrades but has higher electrical costs and is more prone to error 36 37 Disk storage is also more convenient to use because it is random access and data can be kept online as opposed to nearline or of\003ine all the time thus shortening data retrieval times It was been shown that disk storage is more expensive in the short term but in the long term the cost difference between disk and tape systems seems to converge This combined with the f act that ACPS the Ozone Monitoring Instrument Data Processing System OMIDAPS and MODAPS are all disk based storage leads to the conclusion that HIIAPS should also be an entirely disk based system especially with the Kryder's Law disk storage densities double every 23 months taken into account Data Formats As the previous section states it is imperative that HyspIRI data is made available to as many non-remote sensing scientists as possible Part of achieving this goal will be accomplished by distributing the data in a format that is easy to use A standard format would be helpful because it would guarantee that everybody could read that 002le format However there is no single standard format for geospatial data  N ASA  s EOSDIS currently uses HDF-EOS5 which is good for processing but not everyone can easily read the HDF 002le format 40 41 Ev en though there is no standard some formats are more easily accessible than others Using a GIS Geographic Information Systems format like a 003at georeferenced JPEG or PNG image would make HyspIRI data readily accessible to an already large user base and to those who do not use a GIS program The Open GIS Consortium Inc R r OGC is working to solve this formatting issue and towards Open GIS 43 223Open GIS is the full integration of geospatial data into mainstream information technology What this means is that GIS users would be able to freely exchange data over a range of GIS software systems and networks without having to worry about format conversion or proprietary data types Working with the OGC or at least staying in touch with their progress would help to maximize interoperability and accessibility Based on this HyspIRI should have at least two standard data formats One would be HDF-EOS5 because that is the standard NASA EOS format and HIIAPS can draw on pervious NASA experience for it The second would be a GIS ready format like a georeferenced JPEG or PNG to increase accessibility to HyspIRI data This section looked at how HyspIRI might 002t into the EOSDIS framework several previous processing systems and touched on accessibility and interoperability concerns HyspIRI should take advantage of the present EOSDIS infrastructure However HIIAPS should be a stand alone processing center so that HyspIRI's large data volume does not overtax the existing EOSDIS system There are three heritage systems for HIIAPS MODAPS OMIDAPS and ACPS each an the evolution of the next There has been a steady shift from tape-based storage to disk-based storage over the years Thus HIIAPS should use a disk-based storage system In addition to storage and processing distribution is also a concern for the HyspIRI mission HyspIRI data should be made available at no charge to as many people as possible in a manner accessible to as many people as possible Some of the challenges are choosing a data format reaching non-remote sensing scientists and providing the data in an easy to 002nd manner Using Google Earth TM and supplying HyspIRI data products in more than one format will help to solve this challenge 8 C ONCLUSION An end-to-end data system has been described for the HyspIRI mission a high data volume Earth-observing mission With the HyspIRI mission ambitious science objectives are driving the development of a cutting-edge data handling system both on-board the spacecraft and on the ground 18 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





