html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">LocalGlobal: Reconciling Mismatched Ontologies in Development Information Systems  Jessica Seddon Wallack1 Ramesh Srinivasan2  Abstract  This paper extends pre-existing digital divide conceptualizations to further investigate the important issue of mismatches between the ontologies of state-created information systems and local communities  representation of their contexts Comparability of data across time and place, as well as compatibility of data with state administrative needs come at a cost of information loss about the setting and individuals that policymakers are trying to impact. We argue that the reconciliation of community and state logics and framings is critical for effective engagement with communities as well as formulation and implementation of development policies. We suggest several paths toward overcoming mismatched ontologies: education and communications strategies to enable communities and states to translate across ontologies and fill in significant gaps; re-assignment of policy responsibilities to minimize information loss; and several mechanisms that would enable communities to be directly and productively engaged in developing shared ontologies  1. Introduction  Waterlogging? is a perennial complaint in cities in Karnataka, India. A few hours of rain can turn a dry street to a rushing torrent, while a burst pipe or a blocked drain can turn a pedestrian crossing into a treacherous lake. Local newspapers are full of photos bus stops and public places full of discussion. Yet data on public grievances in 57 cities over nearly two years \(2005-2007 waterlogging? ? instead there are recorded incidents of storm drains in need of desilting, storm drains in need of repair, leaking pipes, and choked underground drains. These are the various categories that citizens can choose from to report the puddles which may very well look the same regardless of origin - via cities? Public Grievance and Redressal Systems. [73] No individual type of complaint accounts for more than 9% of complaints \(most types are much less frequent complaints related to puddles ? the actual thing that citizens can see and complain about ? comes to 26 Bus stop conversations about waterlogging and reported complaints about pipes and drains refer to the same occurrence. Yet the community?s understanding of the situation and the Karnataka government?s record of the event label, catalogue and interpret the event in divergent manners. The first characterization represents local knowledge, the picture that communities hold of the event, its significance, and its possible solutions. The person affected by waterlogging contextualizes it directly into existing activities and categories of their community. The second ?sees like a state? [52]: the problem is absorbed and recorded according to the logic of administrative efficiency and/or its policy ramifications. The designated categories list efficiently routes complaints to the concerned departments, but it may also fragment and obscure citizens? concerns 


citizens? concerns This example, we believe, is emblematic of a key attribute of the digital divide: mismatched ontologies that impede communities? ability to impart and communicate information and states? ability to fully understand the territories they govern. Communities and states \(we use the term generically to refer to subnational, national, and international governing institutions through distinct ontologies, or systems of categories and their interrelations by which groups order and manage information about the people, places, things and events around them On the one hand, ontologies provide an essential shared infrastructure for individuals to function as a group. Communities may in fact form and self-define around shared ontologies, constructed and reconstructed fluidly [57] through shared social and cultural activities and the ever-changing lived experiences of their members. Ontologies work to create and enact worldviews within the social group and situate knowledge [63,64] within the organizational or community setting This is as true for states? ontologies as it is for community ontologies. State data systems are the infrastructure of administration: the structured comparable information about the area under jurisdiction enables resources to be identified and taxed, needs to be assessed, and returns on public expenditure or investment to be monitored 1 Director, Ctr for Development Finance, Institute for Financial Management and Research, Chennai, India amp; Research Scholar, Global Information Industry Center, UC San Diego, California 2 Assistant Professor, Department of Information Studies, UC Los Angeles Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE Policymakers seeking to direct resources to ?the poor? and monitor the impact, for example, need to have figures that enable comparisons of poverty across their territory and over time even if the local perceptions of poverty vary. Current standards for good policy,? including evidence-based decisionmaking and monitorability of policies also implicitly rely on meta ontologies? ability to produce the kind of quantitative indicators and large-scale datasets required for ?objective? evaluation of performance and research that meets current standards for evidence of effectiveness. See www.paris21.org for an example of an influential group of development agency?s call for this type of information as a step toward improved policymaking Nevertheless, ontologies also act as objects that create and negotiate boundaries between groups 9,61]. The state ?meta ontology? sheds much of the local context in order to ensure tractable management for policy purposes including taxation, defense provision of infrastructure and service, and economic management[76,1,52]. This tractability comes at the cost of information loss due to mismatched ontologies. While any group?s ontology is unlikely to match that of every individual within the group, the extent of mismatch tends to increase with the scale of the group and the differences between the purpose of individual and group ontologies. Note that our use of ontology does not imply a reified nor exoticized model of ?pastness? or ?locality? that ignores flows of interaction that shape communities over time [2], but merely implies a distinction between groups? mental maps of their surroundings 


maps of their surroundings We argue that states cannot ensure the outcomes that they seek if their policies are targeting a skewed picture of communities? reality. Even the most benign development-seeking state may go awry if its actions are guided by its own ontology and indicators, while levels of and progress toward development are individual or at most communityspecific concepts This paper characterizes an important and overlooked element of the digital divide: information loss due to mismatch between community ontologies and ?meta ontologies.? We argue that the digital divide may be usefully framed around a model of communication, of reconciliation of ontological frameworks that enables information flow between communities and states. The divide is not strictly digital since the issues with mismatched ontologies we elaborate on below would occur between any small and large scale ontology, but it has been exacerbated as ICTs designed around state meta ontologies are increasingly deployed to impact development in diverse communities. This view extends the digital divide literature focused on barriers between infrastructure and technology access 13, 16, 17, 18, 12, 28 This discussion also extends research on literacy and contextual information uses [65, 56, 38, 7, 31] to offer an expanded argument for the importance of systems and institutional mechanisms that enable effective communication between differing ontologies. Mismatched ontologies contribute to: \(a ineffective delivery of information services to communities; \(b interaction with local communities; and importantly and \(c to effectively deliver goods, services, and development-supporting interventions. Much cited research has pointed to the issues within \(a b This paper focuses on \(c the issue of mismatched ontologies is a lose-lose proposition for communities and states The gap between community and meta ontologies is not necessarily purposeful, but rather is often a symptom of the fundamental difficulty of incorporating local, contextualized knowledge into large scale, comparable-across-time-and-place datasets. We recognize that states must be able to compare and aggregate across communities so that resources can be allocated, scalable policies can be developed, and effectiveness of any interventions evaluated.  Research on development demands data that are comparable across communities and time and specifically collected to clarify hypothesize categories and relationships. Yet at the same time this aggregation leads to information loss, not just in terms of overlooked entities but more importantly in overlooked or misjudged semantic relationships between these entities Finally, we also propose some ways to mitigate the information loss by identifying ways in which systems and technologies can collect and represent information meaningfully for communities and states alike, reconciling mismatched ontologies. These types of solutions necessitate equitable forms of access, however, and cannot resolve all aspects of ontology mismatch. Institutional and policy design may also need to be reconsidered to decentralize more decision making in light of the costs of information loss associated with larger-scale meta ontologies We devote the next section of this paper to 


We devote the next section of this paper to underscore the relevance of ontologies, characterize information loss with further specificity, and outline some consequences of information loss in the creation of state meta ontologies. The third section proposes some mechanisms of reconciliation and alleviation of the mismatch. The final section Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 concludes with a discussion of a broader research agenda on these issues  2. The power of ontologies, the problem of information loss  Ontologies represent reality, but this representation of information may in turn become the basis for actions that in turn shape reality. The actions may be shaped in response to ontologies and aimed at problems defined by ontologies, but their impacts depend on the actual reality rather than the representation. Any actor?s effectiveness in achieving their goals thus depends on the quality and completeness of their ontology. Incomplete or inadequate state meta ontologies are especially problematic because of the power that states? actions have to affect communities The problem is especially pervasive for economic development policy, in which states? goals are \(at least normatively utility, or sense of wellbeing. Some of the most prominent formulations of ?development? measure progress in terms of achievements that only make sense with reference to individuals? or communities ontologies. Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen?s concept of development as freedom,? [54] for example, argues that development consists of ensuring that people have the capability to do and be what they value. The notion of ?human development? considers health and access to knowledge, both of which are best assessed by the individual, to be part of development along with income. \(The concept has been implemented in practice [68] with simplistic measures of observable levels of health, educational attainment, and gross domestic product per capita, but that is another matter tension between the need to measure wellbeing in order to design and assess policies and the acknowledgement that wellbeing is a subjective concept dependant on an individual?s worldview by assuming a representative ?rational? individual with a well-defined and known ontology, but the increasing presence of the ?economics of happiness? [22] and behavioral economics? [11] in mainstream journals and top academic venues suggests that the compromise is fraying. States? attempts to promote development? are thus limited by the information loss between the community ontologies that define development and meta ontologies that guide their actions More concrete consequences of information loss can be seen in a variety of policy areas. Urban planning, for example, seeks to devise guidelines to ensure that communities have desirable places to live work, and play [27]; but often ends up creating empty monstrosities such as Brasilia?s Plaza of the Three Powers [48] or dysfunctional living spaces the destroy rather than support community.  The official guidelines are often ignored by communities operating on their own principles of order, leading to inevitable conflicts between states and citizens who essentially seek the same outcomes [44, 72]. Many 


essentially seek the same outcomes [44, 72]. Many failed efforts to provide infrastructure and services can be traced to similar misunderstandings Affordable drinking water projects have been rejected by communities because their pricing models fail to recognize that while communities are willing to pay for services such as water purification or water delivery, they see the water itself as a right [44 Roads have been built and left unused because they failed to connect places of local import. Free schooling has failed to educate half of some areas population because classroom design did not include separate toilets for girls [44].  Technologies that could ostensibly improve living conditions and economic opportunities have been rejected because they were inconvenient for some other community practice: many rural Indian households continue to cook over smoky indoor fires while free cleanburning stoves distributed by government programs go unused because they did not accommodate locally used cooking pots or could not be used to produce local specialties. Public IT kiosks sit idle even as the benefits of IT skills and access become clearer. [70 The fate of the clean-burning cook stoves and the IT kiosks is hardly surprising to students of ?ICT for Development.? Significant research has revealed that an understanding of community ontologies particularly in the context of information systems and technologies, is fundamental to the ability of new innovations to insert themselves sustainably within the lives of local communities [58,59,60 There is thus a far-reaching and fundamental policymaking problem due to the inadequate meta ontologies that states often rely on. We now turn to be more specific about nature of the information loss between community and meta ontologies. First, what specifically, is the ?information loss? that leads to inadequate meta ontologies? Second, how does it arise and why is it perpetuated? Understanding a problem is the first step toward devising a solution We characterize information loss as a consequence of mismatches between components of community and meta ontologies. It thus has various interlinked dimensions: entities that are included in one ontology but excluded from another; categories that create different groupings of these entities for communities and for states; discrepancies between Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 the attributes that are recorded and attached to entities or categories; divergence in the recognized potential changes in categories or attributes differences among the relations used to link entities or categories in each ontology; and variations \(and perhaps contradictions that define allowable inputs and inferences about the world represented by the ontology. \(We are formalizing this notion of information loss and its implications for the design of technology to cross the digital divide in concurrent work as it is beyond the scope of this paper Most of these dimensions of information loss could, in principle, be resolved at some cost. Any object, attribute, category, or relation included within a local ontology could be included in a meta ontology. Governments often collect data on food consumption to measure poverty; they could \(and sometimes do appliance ownership, extent of private living space and other ways in which communities understand poverty. Censuses often group individuals as employed or unemployed, there is no reason that they 


could not also include categories for happily employed and unhappily employed as well Governments often base the relations in their ontologies on those derived by the scientific method there is no reason that they could not also incorporate folkloric relations that guide community perceptions The only fundamental obstacles to eliminating information loss between ontologies stem from potential conflicts between rules and restrictions in different ontologies and disagreement over the nature of events that determine transitions in attributes or objects Why would states purposely create, rely on, and perpetuate ontologies that are inadequate for characterizing the terrain they administer and the goals they seek to achieve? The political economy literature offers various explanations for the nature of states? logical frameworks and resulting policies. [21 Some authors focus on ideology or scientific/academic reasoning \(in development, for example, the reigning schools of thought about how growth happens 14], for example emergent property of the political interactions within the institutional setting, as a function of whether countries are democracies or autocracies, presidential or parliamentary democracies, federal or unitary states, for example [50, 19, 64]. The third main school of thought sees states and their meta ontologies as reflecting some aggregate summary of citizens? views and preferences as expressed at the ballot box or through lobbying and ?insider dealing See, for example [20] and the vast literature on Public Choice that this work has inspired on voting or [34] on lobbyist networks last involve forces that have no necessary linkage to communities? mental maps of their surroundings, and the link between mechanisms for aggregation of citizens? preferences and community ontologies is weak at best. Voting, rioting, and lobbying provide limited opportunities for conveying information. The limitations on how much information can feasibly be aggregated through group decision making to determine social choices have been formally and extensively explored in social choice theory [3, 5 We argue that states? meta ontologies are also at least in part a function of the logistics of their efforts to collect data. Every explicit effort to document a territory, such as a census, is based on particular claims of how a community is to be measured, how the boundaries of a community are to be determined what counts as an activity, and how these collected data points are to be connected and compared [69 62]. These claims may be motivated by politics [49 32] or determined by administrative and technological feasibility of data collection, storage and retrieval. Scott also shows that administrative exigencies related to the division of the responsibilities among and within bureaucratic entities have been influential in determining data collection norms [52]. \(He also shows that administrative norms have also driven policies to forcibly alter reality to make it more ?countable assigning surnames, for example, or removing biodiversity enhancing and forest-sustaining underbrush in order to better count trees useful for lumber and shipbuilding may very well be driven by the same factors, but on a local rather than cross-community scale so there is little reason to expect intersection or reconciliation between the statistical representations Once in place, state meta-ontologies tend to be 


Once in place, state meta-ontologies tend to be self-reinforcing or at least unlikely to converge with community ontologies. States are one of the largest sources of credible data on a variety of economic political, and social processes and outcomes. Their collection and presentation of information determines the ways in which empirical relationships can be discovered, verified, proved, used for public debate Researchers and citizens are less able to challenge the meta ontology when they cannot model and demonstrate the validity of local restrictions practices, events, and entities according to community ontologies. States? dominant position in the supply of data will likely change over time as the costs of collection, compilation, storage, and dissemination of community-produced data continue Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 to decline. But even then, states? authority may privilege conclusions drawn from ?official? versus non-state produced data Second, communities may be less willing to interact with the state to provide data if they feel that the way that this data is aggregated, presented, and used has no connection to the questions that they would like to ask. As one professional demographer reports in personal communication with the author In surveys that I have handled ? the resistance to provide data was huge. Most respondents asked first What do I gain by all these?? They did not believe research could be productive for them? [55]. Nonresponse is a widespread problem for censuses and other surveys [25 Third, communities are less able to engage with states to influence ontologies or information contained in them when they do not find the starting points intelligible. Notable research in Science and Technology Studies [15, 72] has demonstrated that without an approach that directly asks stakeholders to collaboratively work to reflectively create data models, often information systems end up disorienting the groups at hand. Summary statistics from the public grievance and redressal system mentioned in the introduction, for example, shows that citizens in some cities in Karnataka are very bothered by ?biomedical waste.? A closer look at the harder to aggregate and summarize grievances shows that many people had selected the biomedical waste? category to actually refer to dead pigs, dogs, and other animals [73 Unintelligible or incomplete ontologies also weaken the basis for collective action that may be required to draw attention to citizens? voices.  This is particularly the case for problems that tend to be observed by individuals rather than groups. Citizens are unlikely to band together and lobby for the state to recognize and address sexual harassment, for example, if each person affected has no idea that his or her own experience is not unique because there are no data on prevalence of cases This discussion, therefore, leaves us with some important questions concerning the extent to which sociotechnical systems and institutions optimize between local sustainability and cross-community scaleability? Or, is there a way in which community activities can be viewed and monitored from the birds-eye by the states while still preserving the local nuances  3. Bridging local and global  We close this paper by reflecting on several ways 


We close this paper by reflecting on several ways in which information loss can be reduced. This section offers three possibilities, each the basis of ongoing research 1 ontologies. Systems that engage communities to dynamically model their relationship to the information they are provided, around local categories, and fluid relationships between these, have been used sustainably and innovatively in cross-cultural local community contexts e.g; 37, 47, 38 2 to empower and encourage communities to interpret state-provided data and provide feedback including alternative representations of their contextual knowledge into the ontology underlying official ?development data 3 design along two dimensions to a more alternative channels for information flow to fill in gaps due to mismatched ontologies, and b decision making to subnational and local governments that may operate on ?lessmeta? ontologies that are better matched to community ontologies  3.1. Collaborative and inclusive ontologies  Socio-technical systems can enable communities to occupy a variety of roles, falling on a spectrum from passive consumer to co-designer and co-creator to collaborate in creating ontologies. Moreover, in relevant cases, communities can be involved in actually developing, in decentralized manners, their own fluid ontologies, by being exposed to the raw information behind the system and perhaps through semi-automated models, such as rating similarities between entities and evaluating semi-automated models, such as hierarchical clustering and multidimensional scaling [56]. Fluid ontologies, in their most localized form, involve content creators and multiple stakeholders in the direct crafting of categories and data representations so as to ensure that the information they interact so as to ensure that information is presented, retrieved, preserved, and shared around relevant categorical and relational attributes that are sensible to the community in particular [57]. These stakeholders are presented with adaptive and dynamic possibilites to continuously recraft such ontologies as their reflection of community practices shifts over time. For example, a local Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 village community can access an information kiosk of state services, rate the relative importance of each of these within their own community, re-categorize via tags vernaculars, draw semantic connections between different services by attributing a connection with a particular term, and blog by commenting or submitting a video in response to something they experience via the system. We believe that these creative and local uses of tagging, rating, and other types of Web 2.0 technologies present powerful opportunities to adapt and edit a meta ontology and reconcile it with local practices. Validating this hypothesis is the subject of current research. We believe that this approach can be inherently 


believe that this approach can be inherently collaborative, as it asks for reaction and re-crafting of an ontology based around a type of conversation that occurs between the policymaker/system and local community members. These social web 2.0 type uses can ask community members to submit their own categories, comment on information they are presented, and actively work with policymakers, even if not in real time, to develop and identify adequate ontologies that reconcile these different perspectives Designing more inclusive ontologies that can record more objects and attributes, tag them as belonging to any category any community wished to include, link them to other objects, attributes, and categories in any relationship any community cared to define, and store all of this information for ready retrieval, is an important challenge. We recognize that for this to occur, new experiments and prototypes need to be created that engage important work on collaborative and inclusive ontologies conducted by such scholars of information science, as Jens-Erik Mai, Birger Hjorland, and others. Mai?s work on pragmatic approaches toward determining ?likeness in knowledge organization argues that classification is fundamentally interpretive [40]. Instead, presenting different ?documents? into the local social and cultural context could enable them to be reflectively classified based around the community?s own pragmatics [39]. Likewise, Hjorland, across an extensive body of work, has argued that ?different paradigms or conceptualizations in discourses should be made visible in information repositories, and that semantic tools should not just support the navigation between topics but also views and interests. This approach denounces an a priori ?universalist approach toward defining how knowledge shoul be organized, and instead decentralizes the project to allow different discourses to be shared based around multiple ontological viewpoints. Mai and Hjorland?s arguments are well-taken, and remind us that the question of localization in such systems is a social and linguistic problem, rather than solely technical 4], one that must necessarily involve local communities to articulate their own vocabularies and contextualize information in meaningful manners We are developing a field study to investigate possibilities for building a larger scale information sharing network with a foundation of collaborative and inclusive ontologies centered on community economic development initiatives  3.2. Education and Communications Strategies  Meta ontologies that are more transparent and communicable through relevant forms of communication and outreach to communities may also reduce the dynamics of divergence described in Section 2. NGOs and in some cases states themselves have filled the role of translating meta ontologies into language more familiar to communities through services such as literally translating from one language to another or helping citizens to represent their circumstances on forms for loans, benefits taxes, etc. While these are important ?bridging services, they are not a full solution as the power to build a bridge lies only with those who are conversant in the meta ontology Technology and education could combine to create a more inclusive solution in which communities can reorder state-collected information according to their local ontologies. Database design 


according to their local ontologies. Database design and interface determine in part how communities can interact with and reorganize raw data to retrieve the objects and attributes they felt were important choose the categories to sort and compare, and select the relationships they wished to use for ordering the observations. ?Numeracy? empowers citizens to take advantage of these flexible modes of dissemination Citizens who are able understand statistics manipulate them, interpret and re-represent them are better able to adjust data for their own needs as well as communicate local reality to the state authorities and point out gaps that the state data do not fill This approach to resolving information loss has the potential to create its own form of digital divide however, as digital representation of information and interactivity with the underlying data warehouse are necessary. Users cannot manipulate data presented on a printed page, for example, in the same way that they can work with an excel spreadsheet or, better yet, a database with opportunities to construct queries to retrieve data. Users cannot readily visualize information for quick comparisons and checks without having GIS or some web-based applications It is far easier to assess the quality of city services if Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 one can look at the location of bus shelters on a city map of bus routes than if one has to compare a list of written addresses with a list of bus routes defined by their origin and destination for example  3.3. Institutional design  Rethinking institutional design to weigh the costs of information loss relative to the benefits of largerscale decisionmaking systems is also essential Technology access is not universal and relying on technology can create its own second-order digital divide between those who have the technology means to cross the communication divide we have identified here, and those who don?t. Technology fixes can be costly and difficult to implement over legacy systems of information management and organizational resistance. Finally, as discussed above, technology fixes can only solve some dimensions of the information loss The inclusive ontologies discussed in section 3.1 would only be possible with changes in public sector information management to improve its ability to qualitative information, multiple characterizations of the same event, and evolving categorizations relationships, and other aspects of ontologies. The business literature and basic textbooks have long emphasized the importance of organizations? ability to manage information, particularly information generated by actual and potential customers [53, 66 but this has been less emphasized in public sector The political economy of such reorganizations is likely to be challenging, never mind the sheer technical feat of incorporating legacy systems into new means of information sharing and the training required to update civil servants? capacity to use the new systems. There are no quick fixes or easy suggestions for how this can happen Fire-alarm? [43] mechanisms, provisions for citizen feedback to sound the alarm about poor service, corruption, problems with policy implementation, etc, may be useful in the meantime Structures such as public grievance systems or ombudsmen and practices such as comment periods for regulation, politicians? ?constituency service,? or 


town hall? fora allow citizen feedback. It can be costly for states to absorb this less structured dialogue, but ?fire alarms? have the advantage of being self-targeting. The information fills the most problematic gaps because these are the ones that the community deems most urgent and bothers to take extra effort to report Fire alarms do not entirely avoid political economy problems, however, since they do change individual policymakers? and bureaucrats? work contexts. The state may be interested in knowing where citizens are displeased; the individual who displeases the citizen may want this information to remain hidden Policy decentralization can also mitigate information loss by empowering decision makers with ?less meta? ontologies to respond to community needs. Local governments are of course embedded in the overall fiscal federal framework and therefore their ontologies are likely to be influenced by revenue transfers and mandates from the central government as well as inputs from communities, but they are still likely to be more in touch with community perspectives due to sheer proximity [46 This proximity and increased possibility of information transfer between communities and states also has a dark side, however, in that it can allow locally powerful groups to unduly influence policies in their favor rather than the community interest. [24 Decentralization, like improving public sector information management, is easier said than done Policymakers and bureaucrats at one level of government are often protective of their turf Looking across countries, there has been significant nominal devolution of responsibilities to local government, but often without the funds and human resources to support the new tasks. Local autonomy over expenditure decisions ? the heart of actual policymaking - is often severely constrained under the premise that these lower levels of government need time to build up capacity before they can be trusted to operate independently. Centralization of control over revenues is a notable overall trend in federations around the world [78  4. Conclusions  This paper has identified a new form of divide that has been exacerbated by the increasing reliance on and use of information technology for growing markets and states. We have argued that information loss due to mismatch between community ontologies and the meta ontologies that states act upon has serious consequences for the efficacy of state policies, especially those aimed at accelerating development We are not the first to point out the defects of centralized planning and the hubris of states Friedrick Hayek won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1974 for pointing out the value of local, practical knowledge, some of the the pathologies of states approach to ?scientific? planning, and the need for any functional system to maintain a space for people to use their local, practical knowledge [29,30 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 The paper does offer a new perspective on this long-recognized problem, however, by reconceptualizing information loss as a kind of communication failure that can be increasingly mitigated through technology as well as addressed through institutional redesign to reallocate 


through institutional redesign to reallocate decisionmaking authority and establish alternative channels for communication. This conceptualization of information loss from ontology mismatch offers a new criteria for evaluating institutional design This paper represents a first step in a larger conceptual and empirical research agenda that we are working toward. First, this paper uses logic and anecdotes to identify the information loss due to mismatched ontologies as a potentially significant challenge for development policymaking and a priority for further research. We have not yet rigorously established the extent of information loss nor the financial or human costs of mismatched ontologies. Our first step will be a meta-analysis of existing studies: measurable discrepancies between community understandings and the pictures portrayed in policy-relevant official statistics have been studied for various data series and settings [47, 6], but the collective implications have not been studied We are also looking at possibilities for field research in India that would document discrepancies between official portrayals of a development context and citizens? understanding of the context. In one, we are working with an ongoing initiative to disseminate census data about Indian village to add a feature requesting and collecting peoples? updates and comments on how those data portray their village Second, rigorously establishing the extent of information loss and assessing the efficacy of proposed solutions requires a measurement concept We are currently formalizing the concept of information loss that we have introduced in this note We conceptualize information loss as occurring in dimensions corresponding to mismatch between various components of local and meta ontologies, but we have yet to develop a sensible way to weight each of these dimensions in any summary of information loss. The effort to weigh the relative importance of the various dimensions requires additional empirical work The study of whether and how effectively collaborative and inclusive ontologies can be developed is also the subject of ongoing research Hjorland and Mai?s arguments have been mentioned briefly in this paper, and inspire a few important projects that we are currently implementing, focused on studying how multiple communities can develop tags and vocabularies that reconcile differing perspectives and worldviews, and implementing these via mixed ?fluid? and semi-automated approaches [56, 57, 58]. Finally, practical progress in reducing information loss ultimately relies on our ability to demonstrate the impact of mismatched ontologies on success or failure of specific policy initiatives. As discussed above, states do not always have strong incentives to adopt the kind of solutions that we suggest, especially when the ?problem? is murky and current notions of ?good policy? rely on the comparability and monitorability than meta ontologies can deliver. We have discussed cases of information loss and are improving our ability to quantify it, but the next step of linking information loss to economic or human loss will be more challenging. It will be difficult to conclusively disentangle mistaken assumptions or understandings of development challenges from other sources of policy failure, but we are optimistic that some carefully selected cases developed as theoreticallygrounded analytic narratives [8] will help us to tease out the effects of poor information from the effects of institutions, ideology, and other features of the 


institutions, ideology, and other features of the decision making environment. We will be collecting focus group information on public sector decision making practices in various levels of government in India in order to design these studies  5. References  1] Alonso, W. and P. Starr, eds. The Politics of Numbers. Russell Sage Foundation, New York 1987 2] Appadurai, Arjun. "Disjuncture and Difference in the Global Cultural Economy." Modernity at Large: Cultural Dimensions of Globalization Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press 1996. 27-47 3] Arrow, K. Social Choice and Individual Values John Wiley &amp; Sons, New York. 1951 4] Atzeni, P. ?Schema and Data Translation,? m/s 2005 5] Austen-Smith, D., and J. Banks. Positive Political Theory I. Michigan University Press, Ann Arbor MI, 1998 6] Banerjee, A., Duflo, E., Chattopadhyay, R., and J. Shapiro. ?Targetting Efficiency: How Well Can We Identify the Poor?? Institute for Financial Management and Research Centre for Micro Finance Working Paper Series, no. 21 December 2007 7] Barzilay-Nahon, K. 2006. Gaps and Bits Conceptualizing Measurements for the Digital Divide. The Information Society 22: 269-277 8] Bates, R.H.,Greif, A., and M. Levi.  Analytic Narratives. Princeton University Press, Princeton 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 9] Bowker, Geoffrey C., and Susan Leigh Star How Things \(Actor-Net Magic and the Ubiquity of Standards Philosophia 25.3-4 \(1996 10] ---. Sorting Things Out: Classification and its Consequences. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press 1999 11] Camerer, C., Loewenstein, G., and M. Rabin Advances in Behavioral Economics. Princeton University Press: Princeton, NJ, 2004 12] Chambers, Robert. 1994. Participatory Rural Appraisal \(PRA Paradigms. World Development 22\(10 1454 13] Chen W., and B. Wellman. 2003. Charting and Bridgind Digital Divides: Comparing Socioeconomic, Gender, Life Stage and Rural-Urban Internet Access and Use in Eight Countries AMD Global Consumer Advisory Board \(GSAB 14] Chibber, V. Locked in Place: State Building and Late Industrialization in India. Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 2003 15] Christie, Michael, and Helen Verran Using/Designing Digital Technologies of Representation in Aboriginal Australian Knowledge Practices." Human Technology 3.2 2007 16] Compaine B.M. 2001. The digital divide : facing a crisis or creating a myth? Cambridge, Mass MIT Press 17] DiMaggio P., E. Hargittai. 2001. From the Digital Divide' to Digital Inequality: Studying Internet Use as Penetration Increases. Center for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies, Princeton University Working Paper #15 


University Working Paper #15 18] DiMaggio P., Hargittai, Eszter, Celeste, Coral and Shafer, Steven. 2004. Digital Inequality From Unequal Access to Differentiated Use. In K Neckerman \(Ed Russell Sage Foundation: New York 19] Dixit, A. The Making of Economic Policy: A Transactions Cost Perspective. MIT Press Cambridge, MA, 1996 20] Downs, A. An Economic Theory of Democracy Harper Brothers: New York, 1957 21] Evans, P., Rueschmeyer, D., and T. Skocpol, eds Bringing the State Back In. Cambridge University Press, New York, 1985 22] Graham, C. ?The Economics of Happiness Insights on Globalization from a Novel Approach,? World Economics, v.6, No.3, JulySeptember 2005 23] __ ?Insights on Development from the Economics of Happiness,? World Bank Research Observer, 20\(2 24] Grindle, M. Going Local: Decentralization Democratization, and the Promise of Good Governance. Princeton University Press Princeton, 2007 25] Groves, R., Dillman, D., Eltidge, J., and R. Little Survey Nonresponse. John Wiley and Sons, New York, 2001 26] Hargittai E. 1999. Weaving the Western Web Explaining Differences in Internet Connectivity Among OECD Countries. Telecommunications Policy 23\(10/11 27] Hall, Peter. Cities of Tomorrow. Blackwell Publishing, Boston, 2002 28] Hargittai E. 2002. Second-Level Digital Divide Differences in People's Online Skills.First Monday 7\(4 http://firstmonday.org/issues/issue7_4/hargittai 29] Hayek, F. ?The Use of Knowledge in Society American Economic Review, XXXV, No. 4 September, 1945, pp. 519-30 30] Hayek, F. ?The Pretence of Knowledge,? in Lindbeck, A., ed Nobel Lectures, Economics 1969-1980, World Scientific Publishing Co Singapore, 1992 31] Heeks, R. 1999. Information and communication technologies, poverty, and development Development Informatics Working Paper Series Institute for Development Policy and Management. University of Manchester 32] Herrera, Y. Imagined Economies: The Sources of Russian Regionalism. Cambridge University Press, New York, 2005 33] Herz, B., &amp; G. Sperling. Evidence and policies from the developing world: What works in girls education. Executive summary. Council on Foreign Relations, New York, 2004 34] Hj  rland, Birger \(2007 Knowledge Organization. Annual Review of Information Science and Technology 41:367 405 35] Hj  rland, Birger \(2004 organization and the feasibility of universal solutions. Presented at the Eighth International ISKO Conference, London, July 13-16, 2004 36] Jenkins, R. Democratic Politics and Economic Reform in India. Cambridge University Press New York, 1999 37] Kanungo, S. 2004. On the emancipatory role of rural information systems. Information Technology and People. 17\(4 


Technology and People. 17\(4 38] Loegelin, M. 1992. Interformation et development: etude synthetique des lignes de force du discourse universitaire. Institut Universitaire de Technologie B, Department Carrieres de l?information et del al communication, Universite de Bourdeaux 39] Mai, J-E. "Likeness: A Pragmatic Approach" In Dynamism and Stability in Knowledge Organization.   Proceedings of the Sixth International ISKO Conference. Advances in Knowledge Organization, 7: 23-27, 2000 40] Mai, J-E. "The Concept of Subject: On Problems in Indexing" In Knowledge Organization for Information Retrieval.  Proceedings of the 6th Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 International Study Conference on Classification Research. 6: 60-67, 1997 41] Mas-Colell, A., Whinston,M., and J.Green Microeconomic Theory. Oxford University Press New York, 1995 42] Madon, S. and Sahay, S. 2002. An Informationbased Model of NGO-mediation for the Empowerment of Slum Dwellers in Bangalore The Information Society:18\(1 43] McCubbins, M., and T. Schwartz. ?Congressional Oversight Overlooked: Police Patrols vs. Fire Alarms,? American Journal of Political Science February 1984 44] McKenzie, D., and D. Mookherjee. ?Distributive Impact of Privatization in Latin America: An Overview of Evidence from Four Countries Economia, vol. 3, no. 2, Spring 2003, pp. 161218 45] Menou, M.J. 1985. An overview of social measures of information. Journal of the American Society of Information Science and Technology 36\(3 46] Oates, W. ?An Essay on Fiscal Federalism Journal of Economic Literature, 1999, 37, \(3 1120-1149 47] Olken, B. ?Revealed Community Equivalence Scales,? Journal of Public Economics 89 \(2005 545-566 48] Neuwirth, R., Shadow Cities: A Billion Squatters Routledge, London, 2006 49] Perlman, M., ?Political Purpose and National Accounts,? in Alonso, W. and P. Starr, eds. The Politics of Numbers, Russel Sage Foundation New York, 1987 50] Persson, T. ?Do Institutions Shape Economic Policy?? Econometrica, v.70, no.3, 2002 51] Puri, S.K. and Sahay, S. 2003. Participation through communicative action: A case study of GIS for addressing land/water management in India. Information Technology for Development vol 10: 179-199 52] Scott, J. Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed. Yale University Press, New Haven, 1998 53] Seely-Brown, John. and S. Duguid. The Social Life of Information. Harvard Business Press Cambridge, 2002 54] Sen, A. Development as Freedom. Oxford University Press, New York, 1999 55] Somasundaram, L. personal correspondence Chennai, India, December 20, 2007 56] Srinivasan, R., Pepe, A., and Rodriguez, M Eliciting Cultural Ontologies: A comparison between Hierarchical Clustering Methods and Participatory Design Processes.?, under review 


57] Srinivasan, Ramesh, and Jeffrey Huang. "Fluid Ontologies for Digital Museums." International Journal of Digital Libraries.5 \(2005 58] Srinivasan, Ramesh. "Ethnomethodological Architectures: Information Systems Driven by Cultural and Community Visions." Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 5.5 \(2007 59] ---. "Indigenous, Ethnic and Cultural Articulations of New Media." International Journal of Cultural Studies 9.4 \(2006 60] ---. "Where Community Voice and Information Society Intersect." The Information Society 22 2006 61] Star, Susan Leigh, and James R. Griesemer Institutional Ecology, 'Translations' and Boundary Objects: Amateurs and Professionals in Berkeley's Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, 190739." Social Studies of Science 19 \(1989 420 62] Starr, P, ?The Sociology of Official Statistics 63] Suchman, Lucy A. Human-Machine Reconfigurations: Plans and Situated Actions 2nd ed. ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2006 64] ---. "Located Accountabilities in Technology Production." Scandanavian Journal of Information Systems 14.2 \(2002 65] Stepan, A. State and Society: Peru in Comparative Perspective. Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1978 66] Turban, E., Aronson, J., Lian, T., Sharda, R Decision Support and Business Intelligence Prentice-Hall, New Jersey, 2006 \(8th Edition 67] Ulman, J. Future Tendencies in Computer Science, Control and Applied Mathematics Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg, 1992 68] United Nations Human Development Report http://hdr.undp.org/en 69] Vernon, R., ?The Politics of Comparative Economic Statistics: Three Cultures and Three Cases,? in Alonso, W. and P. Starr, eds. The Politics of Numbers, New York, 1987 70] Warschauer, M. ?Reconceptualizing the Digital Divide,? First Monday, v.7, no.7, July 2002 71] ___. Demystifying the digital divide. Scientific American 289\(2 72] Watson-Verran, Helen, and Leon White. "Issues of Knowledge in the Policy of SelfDetermination for Aboriginal Australian Communities 73] Wallack, J.S., and N.K. Singh. ?Of Demolition Drives and Creative Destruction,? Indian Express, October 15, 2006 74] Wallack, J.S. ?Fire Alarms in Action: Making Sense of User Feedback on City Services in Karnataka, India,? under review, 2008 75] Wallack, J.S, and S. Nadhamuni, ?User Innovation and eGovernance Design forthcoming in Hidden Successes: Urban Reforms in India, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA 76] Ziegler, E., and J.S. Wallack, ?State Capacity m/s, UCSD, San Diego, 2008 77] Wallack, J.S., and T.N. Srinivasan. Federalism and Economic Reform. Cambridge University Press. Cambridge, 2006 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


especially of computer networks, is often characterized by the multi-state performance degradations before reaching the complete failure. This multi-state nature of reliability has been increasingly recognized in recent years, and the most significant advances have been in the field of multistate reliability modeling \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003                                                 4. STRATEGIC MODELING AND DYNAMIC   Box 3.3. Multivariate Survival Analysis  Dependence Mechanisms  Dependence is often the central focus of multivariate survival analysis, and together with censoring, they complicate survival analysis most significantly. Hougaard \(2000 three mechanisms of dependence: \(i ii iii Common events are equivalent to common mode failures in reliability analysis, for example, failure events due to accidents or natural disasters. The common risks mechanism describes the scenario that the individuals are dependent due to some common unobserved risks such as common genes in siblings or a bug in the operating system that may affect all software running on 


operating system that may affect all software running on it. The third mechanism, event-related mechanism refers to the phenomena that the actual event itself changes the risk, such as virus infection of a computer node Shared Frailty Modeling  Shared frailty theory occupies the central focus of multivariate survival analysis. The dominance is not accidental because frailty captures crucial but often directly unobservable \(latent random variables, which are attributable for dependence and variations. To some extent, dependence, variation randomness, and frailty all address some facets of multivariate failure events. The frailty theory provides a unique set of approaches to address the theoretical and practical issues related to those four concepts.  Similar to the fact that censoring is the trademark feature of survival analysis \(both univariate and multivariate frailty theory is the trademark of multivariate survival analysis. These two trademark properties, censoringhandling and frailty modeling, have made multivariate survival analysis a unique and indispensable mathematical tool for biomedical and public health research Multi-State Modeling  Multi-state has been developed concurrently in several fields in the last decade, including survival analysis \(Hougaard 2000 reliability \(Lisnianski and Levitin 2003 Commenges 1999 Huzurbazar 2006 multi-state modeling has been adopted to solve the domain specific problems, and the flow graph modeling offers a flexible and powerful approach to analyze multi-state models in general. Multi-State model is often formulated as Markov Process models. The transition probabilities in multi-states modeling are well defined by survivor functions \(Hougaard 2000 multi-state model is to estimate the state transition probabilities from hazards functions. multivariate system. According to Lisnianski and Levitin's \(2003 any systems that can have a finite number of performance rates are multi-state systems. Furthermore a system may consists of components which themselves could be multi-state subsystems 10 4. STRATEGIC LEVEL MODELING AND DYNAMIC HYBRID FAULT MODELS  Hybrid fault models are derived from agreement algorithms Lynch 1997 redundancy management in fault tolerance.  Therefore, the choice of hybrid fault models directly affects reliability analysis and fault tolerance. Despite the close ties between reliability and fault tolerance fields, Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e Ma 2008a with regard to the quantitative relationship between reliability analysis and hybrid fault models. To address the unrealistic assumption, they proposed a new concept  dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF mathematical tools \(survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling we first briefly describe the issues involved and summarize some of their key findings in Box 4.1  Agreement algorithms started out with the introduction of the Byzantine general problem by Pease et al. \(1980 Lamport \(1982 system are abstracted as generals of an army.  Loyal generals \(non-faulty components algorithm e.g., to attack or retreat while traitors \(or bad components others by sending conflicting messages. Because the focus of agreement algorithms is to reach agreement in the presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the 


presence of faults and not on issues related to fail rates, the failure rate is often ignored or is implicitly assumed to be constant. In other words, the agreement algorithm, together with the assumptions about faults and their cardinality determines if agreement can be reached.  However, there is no direct link to the notion of real time in agreement algorithms or the associated hybrid fault models. This implies that agreement algorithms only specify whether or not an agreement can be reached, given a certain number of traitors, but they do not keep track of when the generals committed treason. Ignoring the notion of real time is appropriate in the study of agreement algorithms because they are only concerned with provable agreement even if the voting is dynamic \(multiple rounds of voting time is abstracted as rounds which are discrete and do not bear real-time values  The key issue is that the time \(in terms of rounds agreement algorithm or the hybrid fault models does not capture the process dynamics in terms of real time as needed in the analysis of reliability. When fault models are applied in analyzing a real-world system consisting of multiple components \(generals must be considered. Some generals may be loyal for their entire lifetimes; some may quickly become "corrupted;" still others may be loyal for long time but ultimately become  corrupted  Each of the generals may have different inhomogeneous not-constant function, ?i\(t generals  In most cases, the failure rate is completely ignored, and then the hybrid fault models are treated as static. For example, an engineer may claim that a system he designed will be able to tolerate 2 Byzantine faults, because the design has 7 redundant parts \(3m+1, m is the number of faults notion. In general, if we replace m with a time-dependent function m\(t t t-1 t t function of parts, then the statement becomes a timedependent predicate  In other cases, the consequences of different faults or failure modes can be hugely different. If a benign fault is replaced by a malicious fault, the consequence could be disastrous Without real-time notion, the dynamics of failure modes are never captured  From the above discussion, it is obvious that the lack of real-time notion in agreement algorithms and associated hybrid fault models is a critical issue of significant theoretic and practical implications, and the issue should not be ignored when agreement algorithms and hybrid fault models are applied to reliability analysis. To address this issue, Ma amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a fault \(DHF dynamic in two senses: the time-dependent failure rate and time-dependent failure modes  Actually, the issue is much more complex than what is briefly described above because the problem has two essential aspects.  The above brief introduction only reveals one aspect of the problem, i.e., the lack of real time notion This aspect is relatively straightforward to address and the proposed extension is to introduce time and covariate dependent failure hazard or survivor function \(see Box 3.1 The other aspect of the same problem arises when one tries to apply the new extension for reliability analysis. In other words, the extension with time and covariate dependent hazard function is necessary but not sufficient.  To integrate hybrid fault models or dynamic hybrid fault models reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


