  1 Launch Order, Launch Separation, and Loiter in the Constellation 1\275-Launch Solution Chel Stromgren, Grant Cates Science Applications International Corporation 1710 SAIC Drive McLean, VA 22102 703-676-6379 / 407-694-0899 chel.stromgren@saic.com grant.r.cates@saic.com  William Cirillo NASA Langley Research Center 1 North Dryden Blvd., MS462 Hampton, VA 23681 757-864-1938 william.m.cirillo@nasa.gov  Abstract 227The NASA Constellation Program \(CxP\s developing a two-element Earth-to-Orbit launch system to enable human exploration of the Moon. The first element Ares I, is a human-rated system that consists of a first stage based on the Space Shuttle Program\222s solid rocket booster SRB\ and an upper stage that consists of a four-crew Orion 
capsule, a service module, and a Launch Escape System The second element, Ares V, is a Saturn V-plus category launch system that consists of the core stage with a cluster of six RS-68B engines and augmented with two 5.5segment SRBs, a Saturn-derived J-2X engine powering an Earth Departure Stage \(EDS\he lunar-lander vehicle payload, Altair 1,2  Initial plans called for the Ares V to be launched first followed the next day by the Ares I. After the EDS performs the final portion of ascent and subsequent orbit circularization, the Ori on spacecraft then performs a rendezvous and docks with the EDS and its Altair payload Following checkout, the integrated stack loiters in low Earth orbit \(LEO\ntil the appropriate Trans-Lunar Injection TLI\ndow opportunity opens, at which time the EDS propels the integrated Orion\226Altair to the Moon 
Successful completion of this \2231\275-launch\224 solution carries risks related to both the orbital lifetime of the assets and the probability of achieving the la unch of the second vehicle within the orbital lifetime of the first. These risks, which are significant in terms of overall system design choices and probability of mission success dictated a thorough reevaluation of the launch strategy, including the order of vehicle launch and the planned time period between launches The goal of the effort described in this paper was to select a launch strategy that would result in the greatest possible expected system performance while accounting for launch risks and the cost of increased orbital lifetime 1  1 
U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright 2 IEEEAC paper #1314, Version 4 Updated January 10, 2009 A Discrete Event Simulation \(DES\odel of the launch strategies was created to determine the probability of a second launch not occurring in a timely fashion \(i.e., before the assets waiting in LEO expire\is data was then used along with vehicle capability da ta, cost data, and design changes that increased loiter to evaluate the impact of changes in strategy. The specifi c changes in strategy that were considered include decreasing the planned time between launches from 24 hours to 90 minutes, changing the launch order, and varying the LEO loiter capacity of the EDS and Orion systems An overview of the launch strategy evaluation process is presented, along with results of specific cases that were analyzed. A high-level comparison of options is then 
presented, along with the conclusion derived from the analysis T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION  1  2  B ACKGROUND  3  3  L AUNCH O PPORTUNITIES AND TLI  W INDOWS  4  4  P REDICTION OF P N SL  6 
 5  V EHICLE AND E LEMENT C OSTS  7  6  P ROBABILITY OF L OSS OF C REW  7  7  F IGURES OF M ERIT  8  8  S ELECTION OF F INAL L AUNCH O 
PTIONS  9  9  C OMPARISON OF L AUNCH O PTIONS  11  10  S ELECTION OF 1 1  2 L AUNCH P OINT OF D EPARTURE O PERATIONAL C ONCEPT  13  11  P OINT OF 
D EPARTURE AND U NCERTAINTY  14  12  S UMMARY  15  R EFERENCES  16  B IOGRAPHY  16  1  I NTRODUCTION  The Constellation architecture that is being developed by NASA for crewed human lunar missions involves two independent launches from the Earth with a rendezvous in 


  2 low Earth orbit \(LEO\cle launches the Orion crew vehicle into LEO, and the Ares V launches the Earth Departure Stage \(EDS\he Altair lunar lander into orbit. The Orion vehicle and the EDS-Altair stack rendezvous in LEO before performing a Trans-Lunar Injection \(TLI\s launch architecture is referred to as a \2231\275-launch\224 solution because of the relative size of the Ares I to the Ares V The 1\275-launch solution imposes additional constraints on human lunar missions over a single launch scenario. The primary constraint involves the requirement for a LEO rendezvous between the two vehicles and the lifetimes of the elements in LEO. The Orion has a capability to loiter in LEO for a maximum of four days, limited by consumables The EDS will have a maximum LEO loiter duration that is set by the amount of excess liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen propellant that is available to account for the boiloff that occurs during LEO loiter. These maximum loiter durations for the Orion and EDS require that the two launches will have to occur within some discrete time period in order to support rend ezvous and a successful lunar mission Three factors will have a major impact on the probability of success of conducting both launches in the available time period: the order that the vehicles are launched in, the maximum LEO loiter duration of the Orion and the EDS and the separation time between the two launches NASA completed a study to address the operational issues surrounding the 1\275-launch solution and to compare various options for launch operations. The ultimate goal was to develop a \223point-of-departure\224 operational launch option that would maximize the expected performance of the transportation system. Options were evaluated for launch order of the vehicles, loiter duration in LEO of the Orion and EDS, and the time separation between launches The options that were evaluate d are depicted as a trade tree in Figure 1. Two options were considered for launch order launching Ares I first, followed by Ares V, identified as \223IV\224; and launching Ares V first, followed by Ares I identified as \223V-I\224. In addition, two types of LEO loiter duration were considered. The first loiter option was to support only a single TLI window. The second loiter option was to support multiple TLI windows. Because of the limited loiter duration of the Orion crew module in LEO the option to support multiple TLI windows is applicable only to a V-I launch order. Finally, options for the planned separation between the two launches of 90-minutes and 24hours were evaluated. The baseline established after the Exploration System Architecture Study \(ESAS\of a V-I launch order, a loiter duration that supports multiple TLI windows, and a launch separation of 24-hours is identified in Figure 1 The selection of a point-of-departure does not represent the final determination of a launch option for the Constellation architecture. Rather, the point of-departure represents a baseline from which on going lunar mission studies will be conducted. The baseline architecture may be changed in the future as further studies or revised data warrant  Figure 1 \226 Trade Space 


  3 2  B ACKGROUND  The basic Constellation transportation architecture was initially defined as part of the ESAS [1 an d  in  effo rts immediately following that study As part  of t h e basel i n e option developed at that time, it was assumed that the Ares V heavy launch vehicle would launch first, with a capability to loiter for up to 95 days in LEO. The Ares I and Orion would then nominally launch 24 hours later and rendezvous with the EDS and lunar lander. If the Ares I failed to launch 24 hours later, multiple relaunc hes could be attempted over the remainder of the 95-day loiter period, covering multiple TLI opportunities. The 95-day loiter period was selected to ensure that the crew could launch before the EDS operational lifetime expired During subsequent design iterations of the transportation elements, a number of factors we re identified that called the initial baseline launch option assumptions into question The primary issue revolved ar ound the ability of the EDS to provide for a 95-day LEO loiter. As the EDS orbits the Earth and is heated by the sun the cryogenic fuel within the EDS tanks boils off at a rate of approximately 40 kg per day. In order to reserve a sufficient amount of fuel for the lunar mission, either the boil-off gasses must be reliquefied and returned to the tanks, or the boil-off must be vented and an additional amount of fuel carried to account for lost propellant However, both of these solutions would have severe adverse impacts to the overall transportation architecture. With no re-liquefaction, the mass of extra propellant required to achieve a 95-day loiter capability would be at least 3,800 kg. In addition, added mass penalties would be incurred for extra tank volume to hold the additional propellant. Because the total launch capability of the Ares V to LEO is limited launching additional EDS propellant directly reduces the effective cargo at LEO. This, in turn, will limit the total lander mass, and the mass delivery capacity to the lunar surface In addition, long loiter periods would result in a substantial increase in the complexity and dry mass of the EDS Photovoltaic arrays would be required for power generation reboost would be requi red, and additional micrometeoroid/orbital debris \(MMOD\ection might be needed. None of the selected Ares V launch vehicle options could support an EDS with a 95-day loiter and a viable lunar lander Reliquefaction of the boil-off would significantly reduce the need to carry additional propellant. However, the reliquefaction equipment would add additional mass to the EDS, similarly limiting lunar lander performance. Initial estimates for a reliquefaction sy stem indicated that the mass could be similar to or greater than that of the additional 95 days of propellant. In addition, the technology readiness level \(TRL\his technology is relatively low, and a major development effort would be required to include such a system on the EDS. For these reasons, reliquefaction was not investigated as a final solution. However, note that design reference missions for Constellation-based crewed Mars missions require a significant number of Ares V launches over an extended time period. So, ultimately, this type of technology may be required to support future exploration activities Other issues regarding the operational concept for the 1\275launch solution were also raised in the design iterations that followed ESAS. The time separation between the two launches was also identified as an important parameter Analysis showed the probability of no second launch PnSL\between launches increased, whereas a lower PnSL is desirable. This increase is primarily due to the possibility of weather or sea state change to unfavorable conditions in the interim period but is also impacted by possi bility of a failure on the second vehicle during the separation period. The 24-hour launch separation that was identified as part of the initial architecture could result in a relatively high probability of no second launch The final issue that was identified concerned the launch order of the Ares V and the Ares I and the difference in the consequences of a missed launc h between the launch orders For the baseline option, with the Ares V launching first referred to as V-I in the analysis, a failure to launch the Ares I within the LEO duration of the EDS would result in the loss of the EDS and the Altair lander. Each of those elements would have to be replaced to re-fly the mission The Ares V and the Altair are the most expensive elements in the transportation system. This type of loss would represent a large fraction of the total transportation element cost. In addition, concerns we re voiced that the loss of an Ares V and Altair could impose substantial delays in establishing a permanently crewed lunar outpost An alternate option, reversing the launch order, with the crewed Ares I launching first and the Ares V launching second, is referred to as I-V in this analysis. If the Ares V was not launched in time, the crew would be forced to return directly to Earth. In th is case, an Ares I and an Orion service module would have to be replaced, and the Orion crew module would have to be refurbished in order to re-fly a mission. This type of loss would carry significantly less replacement cost than in the V-I option The difference in consequence between the two options brought into question the baseline launch order. Although there is a strong initial reaction th at it is most appropriate to launch the Ares V first so as not to risk the crew until the EDS and the lander are safely in orbit, the stark difference in consequence for these two options indicated that it might be preferable to reverse the launch order, launching the crew in the Ares I first and then launching the Ares V. In this case, the Ares V/EDS/Altair stack would not be lost if 


  4 the Ares I could not be launched in time. Of course, in this case, the crew would be exposed to additional risk if the mission has to be repeated due to a missed second launch The study that is described in this paper was intended to address the operational issues surrounding the 1\275-launch solution and to compare various options for launch operations. The goal of the effo rt was to develop an updated concept for 1\275-launch operations that would balance the PnSL, the consequence of no second launch, and any added risk to the crew. The operational concept would include the order of vehicle launch, the planned separation between the launches, and the loiter periods for the Orion and the EDS Orion loiter periods were limited to four days, as dictated by the current Orion design Note that the updated operational concept for the 1\275-launch option that was developed as a result of this effort is used only as a current reference. NASA is still leaving open the option to change the operational concept as more data become available or to develop a system that is capable of supporting multiple operational concepts, including launch order 3  L AUNCH O PPORTUNITIES AND TLI  W INDOWS  The baseline separation between the launch of the two vehicles was originally set at 24 hours. This separation allows the second vehicle to launch as the first passes over on the same approximate launch orbit one day later. Other launch options include a 90-minute separation, where the second vehicle would launch to meet the first after it has completed its first orbit, and any increment of 24 hours. For the purposes of this effort only planned launch separations of 24 hours and 90 minutes were investigated. Separations of greater than 24 hours would only compound issues regarding weather and sea state change The options available for the two-launch operational concept are limited by the tim ing of opportunities for TLI The TLI opportunities for a particular lunar site occur at average intervals of approximately 9-10 days. The combined EDS/Altair/Orion stack must depart within a limited time window at TLI. The actual intervals vary somewhat from this average based on orbital mechanics However a limited number of TLI opportunities occur at spacings greater than 10 days The spacing of TLI opportunitie s limits the set of loiter periods that would be effective for both the Ares V and the Orion. In the baseline V-I option, the Ares V would be launched five days before a TLI opportunity. The Ares I launch would then be initially planned for 24 hours later four days before the TLI opportunity. If that launch failed to occur, three more Ares I launch opportunities would occur at 24-hour intervals before the TLI opportunity. If the Ares I failed to launch on any of those attempts, additional 4-day launch opportunities would be available prior to each TLI opportunity. These Ares I la unch opportunities would be available for the duration of the Ares V loiter capability The spacing of launch opportunities for the V-I launch order with 90-minute and 24-hour separation are further described in Figures 2 and 3, respectively Options for alternate Ares V loiter capability in the V-I order are dependent on the 10-day TLI interval. The lowest possible Ares V loiter that would be viable, with a 24-hour separation between launches, would be five days. That separation would provide for four Ares I launch attempts for a single TLI opportunity. Viable loiter durations would then increase in increments of 10 days, with each increment providing an additional four Ares I launch attempts. If the launch separation is decreased to 90 minutes, then each of the loiter periods would be deceased by one day, with a 4day minimum and added increments of 10 days In a I-V option, the loiter duration of the Orion limits the launch attempts. In this option, the Ares I would always launch four days prior to the TLI opportunity. With a 90minute separation between launches, the Ares V would attempt to launch on the next orbit. If that launch did not occur, then the Ares V could attempt to launch on additional three opportunities at 24-hour in tervals prior to the TLI opportunity, for a total of four possible attempts. If the launch separation was 24 hours, then three possible launch attempts would occur for the Ares V. In either case, if the Ares V could not launch by the TLI opportunity, then the crew would have to return to Earth. Utilizing more than a single TLI opportunity is not possible in the I-V option. The spacing of launch opportunities for the I-V launch order with 90-minute and 24-hour sepa ration is further described in Figures 4 and 5, respectively A loiter period of less than four days is also possible for either launch order. As part of this analysis, for the V-I launch order, EDS loiter periods of 1-4, 14, and 24 days were considered for the 90-minute launch separation, and 25, 15, and 25 days were considered for the 24-hour separation. For the I-V launch order, a 4-day loiter was used for Orion, which corresponds to a 4-day EDS loiter at 90minutes separation and a 3-day EDS loiter at 24-hours separation. Table 1 details the full set of launch variables that were investigated as part of this study  


  5   Figure 4 \226 TLI and Launch Opportunities for I-V Launch Order, 90-Minute Separation   Figure 2 \226 TLI and Launch Opportunities fo r V-I Launch Order, 90-Minute Separation   Figure 3 \226 TLI and Launch Opportunities fo r V-I Launch Order, 24-Hour Separation  Figure 5 \226 TLI and Launch Opportunities for I-V Launch Order, 24-Hour Separation 


  6 Table 1. 1\275-Launch Options Launch Order Launch Separation Orion LEO Loiter EDS LEO Loiter Launch Opportunities for Second Vehicle 1 Day 2 Days 1 2 Days 3 Days 2 3 Days 4 Days 3 4 Days 5 Days 4 4 Days 15 Days 8 24-Hour 4 Days 25 Days 12 1 Day 1 Day 1 2 Days 2 Days 2 3 Days 3 Days 3 4 Days 4 Days 4 4 Days 14 Days 8 V-I 90-Minute 4 Days 24 Days 12 2 Days 1 Day 1 3 Days 2 Days 2 24-Hour 4 Days 3 Days 3 1 Day 1 Day 1 2 Days 2 Days 2 3 Days 3 Days 3 I-V 90-Minute 4 Days 4 Days 4  For all of the cases that were ev aluated as part of this study the assumption was made that both launch vehicles would be fully prepped and ready to fly on separate launch pads before the first vehicle would be launched. In addition, the assumption was made that the weather and sea state forecasts would support the launch of both vehicles. If either vehicle suffered a technical problem or if weather or sea state forecasts did not support the launch of both vehicles, then the entire launch process would be delayed until a later opportunity 4  P REDICTION OF P N SL PnSL was determined by using a discrete event simulation model called Constellation-Requirement Assessment Simulation Technique \(C-RAST\ich was built using Rockwell Automation\222s Arena simulation software. CRAST models the launch countdown for the integrated Ares I\226Orion vehicle and the integrat ed Ares V\226Altair vehicle C-RAST is an updated version of the ConstellationManifest Assessment Simulation Techni  The C-RAST model begins at the point in time at which both vehicles are ready to begin launch countdown on their respective launch pads. C-RAST progresses through an approximate two to three day countdown with the possibility of launch delays occurring at discrete points along the countdown. These discrete points were identified based on the points at which launch vehicles such as the space shuttle and the Delta II experience launch countdown delays. These points include management reviews at two days prior to launch and one day prior to launch, at a decision point on whether or not to commit to loading the cryogenic propellants, at the propellant loading phase, at post-propellant loading operations including crew insertion at the final management decision to commit to launch, and at terminal countdown operations The probabilities of a launch delay occurring at these discrete points was determined after reviewing space shuttle and Delta II historical data and then filtering that data based on the differences between those launch vehicles and the Constellation vehicles. Sources of potential delays include vehicle malfunctions, weather, and sea state. Subject matter experts provided information that was also considered in developing the delay probabilities. The duration of a delay is modeled as a probability distribution by using a combination of space shuttle a nd Delta II historical data Separate distributions were created to correspond to the type of delay. For example, weather delays tend to be one day in duration, whereas flight hardware delays tend to be longer Table 2 shows the PnSL values for the V-I launch order with 90-minute and 24-hour separation for 4, 5, 14, and 15 days of EDS LEO loiter capacity, respectively. Maximum Orion loiter capacity was assumed to be fixed at approximately four days Table 2. PnSL in V-I Launch Order Launch Separation Orion LEO Loiter EDS LEO Loiter PnSL 1 Day 2 Days 26.9 2 Days 3 Days 22.9 3 Days 4 Days 16.9 4 Days 5 Days 14.1 4 Days 15 Days 5.5 24-Hour 4 Days 25 Days 4.0 1 Day 1 Day 8.7 2 Days 2 Days 6.8 3 Days 3 Days 5.9 4 Days 4 Days 4.7 4 Days 14 Days 1.9 90-Minute 4 Days 24 Days 1.2  Similarly, Table 3 shows the PnSL data for the I-V launch order with 90-minute and 24-hour separation. Due to the 4day loiter limitation of the Orion, cases with greater loiter duration for the EDS are not app licable because the Orion is placed in orbit first 


  7 Table 3. PnSL in I-V Launch Order Launch Separation Orion LEO Loiter EDS LEO Loiter PnSL 2 Days 1 Day 20.8 3 Days 2 Days 15.3 24-Hour 4 Days 3 Days 13.0 1 Day 1 Day 10.8 2 Days 2 Days 8.1 3 Days 3 Days 7.0 90-Minute  4 Days 4 Days 5.4  5  V EHICLE AND E LEMENT C OSTS  A major factor that was consid ered in the analysis of the 1\275-launch operational concepts is the relative cost of the transportation elements. If a significant disparity exists between the costs of an Ares I stack and an Ares V stack then the total risks should be evaluated rather than just focusing on the probability of failure Costs estimates were develope d for each of the relevant transportation elements based on data provided from the project offices. For the Ares I, the Ares V, and the Orion service module, the marginal unit costs were used as an estimate for the per-unit repl acement cost. Because a large number of these elements will be used over the course of the ISS and lunar programs, these elements were assumed to be assembly-line-type items. If a replacement unit were needed, the next unit off of the line could be used. No significant added fixed costs were assumed for acquiring an additional unit. For the Ares V, cost estimates were developed for two different options. The baseline architecture assumes that the 51.0.48 opti i s used for the Ares V. This option repres ents the current baseline Ares V configuration for the Constellation Program. However this option is limited to a 71.1 t capability to LEO. Certain launch options may require increased Ares V capability which would dictate an upgrade to the 51.0.47 option with a capability of 74.7 t to LEO For the Orion crew module, the marginal cost of refurbishment was used. Again, no added fixed costs were assumed to be necessary to refurbish an additional unit For the Altair lunar lander, both fixed and marginal costs per unit were used for the analysis. Because the number of Altair landers is expected to be relatively limited and many components may be procured as fixed unit purchases up front, the production of an a dditional lander may require a substantial fraction of the fixed costs to be incurred in order to resume production. However, the total fraction of the fixed costs that would be incurred is unclear. For the purposes of comparing the 1\275-launch options, the full fixed and marginal costs were used. However, a sensitivity analysis was also completed over a range of Altair costs with the marginal cost only re presenting the low end and the full cost representing the high end For presentation in this report, all cost data has been normalized to the cost of Ares I stack equivalents. Actual cost estimates were used in the comparison of options for the decision makers. However because the primary cost issue reflects the relative diffe rence in cost between the Ares I and the Ares V stacks, the normalization of the cost data does not impact the analysis or the results presented in this paper. All costs were norma lized by the cost of an Ares I stack, which included the cost of the Ares I crew launch vehicle, the Orion service module, the Launch Escape System, and the refurbishment of the Orion crew module All costs are, therefore presented as Ares I stack equivalents, or AI. These figures reflect the relative cost of each transportation element as co mpared with the cost of an Ares I stack. Table 4 details the cost data used for this analysis Table 4. Replacement Cost Estimates for Transportation Elements Element Per Unit Cost Ares I Stack Equiv  Ares I \226 Marginal Cost 0.40 AI Orion SM & CM Refurbishment \226 Marginal Cost 0.60 AI  Ares V \(51.0.48\arginal Cost 0.90 AI Ares V \(51.0.47\arginal Cost 1.13 AI  Altair \226 Fixed Cost 1.19 AI Altair - Marginal Cost 0.79 AI Altair - Total 1.98 AI  6  P ROBABILITY OF L OSS OF C REW  The initial selection of a V-I launch order was predicated on two factors. The first was the ability to add substantial loiter time to the EDS if the Ares V was launched first. The other factor, which is also potentially significant, is the added risk to the crew if the Ares I were to be launched first. In that option, the crew would be pl aced into LEO prior to the launch attempt of the Ares V. If the Ares V were not able to launch in the available four-day window, then the crew would have to return to Earth. If the mission were to be reattempted later, then a crew would again have to be placed in LEO. This, in effect, expos es a crew to an additional launch, LEO operations, and entry, descent, and landing EDL For the V-I launch order, no additional risk to the crew would result from the 1\275-launc h operations. However, with 90-minute separation, other potential risks to the crew for a 


  8 V-I launch order must be considered. In this case, NASA has determined that inserting the Orion crew into the capsule and preparing for launch in the 90-minutes between launches would be difficult. Therefore, the crew would most likely have to be on the pad, in the capsule, when the Ares V launches. If an incident were to occur on the pad or in the initial stages of launch that resulted in a catastrophic loss of the Ares V, then the crew would be in some potential danger. This represents an added crew risk for the V-I launch order if a 90-minute separation were used. In the 24hour case, the crew would not be exposed to this type of risk In order to accurately compare the risks to the crew due to launch order between cases, both the added launch risk for I-V options and the range safety issues for V-I options need to be considered For an Ares I flight that is forced to return to Earth with no TLI, the total PLOC for the crew is the sum of the risks of the Ares I launch, four days of Orion LEO operations, and an EDL from LEO. Based upon the current risk estimates for the Ares I and Orion designs, the PLOC for a LEO mission is estimated to be approximately 0.00253 or 1 in 396. As the designs for the Ares I and the Orion mature and risk is \223bought out\224 of the systems, these risk estimates are likely to improve. For reference, the requirement for crew risk for the orbital mission, derived from the Constellation Architecture Requirements Document \(CARD\s 0.00036 or 1 in 2,793. However, in order to be as conservative as possible in relation to crew safety, the current risk value was used. Table 5 details the breakdown of the PLOC for both the current and CARD estimates Table 5. PLOC Estimates for 4-Day Orion LEO Mission Phase Current PLOC CARD Requirement Ares I Launch 0.00077 1  1300  1  9168  LEO Loiter \(4-Days 0.00071 1  1400  1  9873  EDL from LEO 0.00104 1  960  1  6770  Total 0.00253  1  396  1  2793   The added risk to the crew in the I-V option can be calculated as the total Probability of loss of Crew \(PLOC for an orbital mission multiplied by the probability that the crew will be required to refly the flight for a given mission which is equal to the probability that the Ares V does not launch at all \(PnSL\lus the probability that the Ares V launches \(Probability of Sec ond Launch \(PSL reach LEO Added crew risk for I-V launch order = PLOC LEO   PnSL + PSL * P Ares V Ascent Failure  where 1  PSL = 1 \226 PnSL P Ares V Ascent Failure 0.0115 Using the PnSL of 5.4% for the I-V launch order with a 90minute separation and four days of loiter, the added risk to the crew per mission is equal to 0.000164, or 1 in 6,092 Added crew risk for I-V launch order = 0.00253 2  0.054 + 0.946 * 0.0115\ = 0.000164  Quantitatively assessing the ri sks that the crew faces because the are with in the Flight Hazard Area for the V-I launch order with a 90-minute separation is not currently possible. However, based on the opinion of subject-matter experts, this risk is not considered to be insignificant. The crew faces no significant added risk for a V-I launch order with a 24-hour separation because they would not be loaded into the Orion until after the launch of the Ares V 7  F IGURES OF M ERIT  The goal of the launch order analysis was to evaluate the identified operational concepts and then produce a series of relevant figures of merit FOM\ost basic metric that was considered was the probability that each concept would result in a failure to launch the second vehicle. The FOMs for the study had to cover a number of areas that were significant to decision makers on selecting a concept Probability of No Second Launch This metric not only contributes to expected losses but also stands alone as an important measurement of success or failure. Because any failure to launch the second flight in a timely manner will result in the loss of a vehicle and would force the flight to be reflown, some adverse public and political reaction is likely, even if such a loss is anticipated by NASA Cost of Failure The primary direct impact on NASA of a failed second launch would be the cost to re place hardware and attempt to refly the mission. Although other options may ultimately be pursued by NASA if such an event did occur, such as cancelling the mission, the re placement cost remains an indicator of the value of the hardware that is lost In this analysis, the metric that was selected is the expected cost of replacement hardware The expected cost is calculated as the product of the PnSL for each option and the cost of the hardware that is lost for that option. This value is not the actual replacement cost per mission if a second launch failure did occur. It is a probabilistic amortization of those costs These costs would effectively be imposed on every human lunar mission resulting in a large added cost over the program In the case of the V-I launch order, the cost of lost hardware is the sum of the costs for the Ares V booster, the EDS, and 


  9 the Altair lander. In reality, some cost would also be incurred to replace lost cargo on the lander. However, for this study these costs were considered to be negligible For the I-V launch order, the cost of lost hardware is the sum of the costs for replacement of the Ares I and the Orion service module, as well as the cost of refurbishment for the Orion command module Loss of Delivery Capability to the Surface This metric captures the negative impacts of increasing the loiter period for the Ares V. In the V-I launch order, as the loiter period is increased, the total cargo delivery capacity of the transportation system to the lunar surface decreases This penalty, unlike the replacement cost, is not probabilistic but is incurred on every lunar mission Additional Risk to the Crew The additional risk to th e crew for each option was considered as a primary metric by decision makers. As described, the quantitative added risk for the I-V launch option was calculated as a metric. For the V-I 90-minute option, the added risk was treated qualitatively Additional Costs or Complexities Aside from the four basic FOMs described above additional complexities had to be considered for certain launch options. The most significant of these complexities was the total launch vehicle capability. In certain cases, the additional EDS propellant load was so great that, with the baseline Ares V option, there would not be enough cargo delivery capacity to LEO to support a viable lunar lander. In these cases, the application of that launch option would require an upgrade to the capacity of the Ares V. This would lead to a significant increase in both Design Development, Test, and Evaluation \(DDT&E\costs and production costs for every flight 8  S ELECTION OF F INAL L AUNCH O PTIONS  An initial evaluation of the full set of 1\275-launch options was evaluated across the described FOMs. The goal of this initial analysis was to select a subset of options for final analysis and comparison that would represent the best performance across all of the FOMs 90-Minute versus 24-Hour Separation Before investigating launch orde r or loiter duration in detail basic results comparing the PnSL for 90-minute and 24hour launch separation were pr ovided to decision makers Table 6 summarizes the PnSL values for each of these cases Table 6. Comparison of PnSL for 90-Minute and 24-Hour Separation Cases 90-Minute Separation PnSL 24-Hour Separation PnSL I-V 4-Day Orion 4-Day EDS 5.4 I-V 4-Day Orion 3-Day EDS 13.0 V-I 4-Day Orion 4-Day EDS 4.7 V-I 4-Day Orion 5-Day EDS 14.1 V-I 4-Day Orion 14-Day EDS 1.9  V-I 4-Day Orion 15-Day EDS 5.5  The PnSL for the 24-hour cases are significantly worse than those for the respective 90-minute counterparts. A number of factors cause the 24-hour PnSL results to be so relatively poor. First, the 24-hour separation allows one less launch attempt than for the 90-minute case. Second, the 24-hour separation introduces a greater probability that the weather or sea state could change and fall outside the limits between launches. Finally, the increased time between launches increases the probability that a failure will occur in the second launch vehicle as a result of the longer period for such a failure to manifest Certain operational complexities would be incurred for a 90-minute launch separation, as compared with the baseline 24-hour separation. Final countdown for both vehicles would overlap and, as described earlier, in a I-V launch order, the crew would be in the flight hazard area of the Ares V. However, NASA ha s investigated operational concepts for a 90-minute separation and has found no major barriers Based upon this PnSL data, it was determined that the added probability of mission failure for a 24-hour separation for any given launch option was simply too large to be tolerated. The added launch complexity and flight hazard risk of the 90-minute case did not justify the added probability of mission failure. The political and public perception of these types of failures, especially multiple similar failures, is likely to be poor. In the case of a V-I launch order, a high-cost asset \(2.88\2263.11 AI\s being lost In the case of a I-V launch order, the appearance would be that the crew was launched for no reason, in addition to an Ares I stack loss For these reasons, the decision was made to not investigate further the 24-hour separation cases. Therefore, the pointof-departure architecture was changed to a 90-minute separation Loiter Duration For each of the 1\275-launch order options, cases were evaluated with varying loiter durations in LEO in order to 


  10 select loiter periods that w ould be optimal for each launch sequence  Table 7. Comparison of FOMs Across Lo iter Period Options for V-I Launch Order 90-Minute Launch Separation Ares V Loiter Days PnSL Cost of No Second Launch Ares I Stack Equiv  Expected Vehicle Replacement Cost, per Crewed Mission Ares I Stack Equiv  Change in Propellant Mass, kg Cost to Provide Added Loiter 1 8.7 1  11.5  2.88 AI 0.25 AI 119 0 2 6.8 1  14.7  2.88 AI 0.20 AI 79 0 3 5.9 1  16.9  2.88 AI 0.17 AI 40 0 4 4.7 1  21.3  2.88 AI 0.14 AI 0 0 14 1.9 1  52.6  3.11+ AI 0.06 AI 395 1B 24 1.2 1  83.3 A N/A 834 N/A  Table 8. Comparison of FOMs Across Lo iter Period Options for I-V Launch Order 90-Minute Launch Separation Ares I Loiter Days PnSL Cost of No Second Launch Ares I Stack Equiv  Expected Vehicle Replacement Cost, per Crewed Mission Ares I Stack Equiv  Added Loiter Mass Added PLOC 1 10.8 1  9.2  1.00 AI 0.11 AI 119 0.00030 2 8.1 1  12.3  1.00 AI 0.08 AI 79 0.00023 3 7.0 1  14.3  1.00 AI 0.07 AI 40 0.00020 4 5.4 1  18.5  1.00 AI 0.05 AI 0 0.00016   For the V-I launch order, EDS loiter durations of 1, 2, 3, 4 14, and 24 days were investigated. For the 4-, 14-, and 24day EDS loiter periods, an Orion loiter of 4 days \(the design maximum\ was used. For the 1-, 2-, and 3-day EDS loiter cases, the Orion loiter period would match the EDS loiter although no mass changes were made to the Orion design Table 7 shows the PnSL and cost results for each V-I case In these results shown in Table 7, the cost of No Second Launch was 2.88 AI for each of the cases up to a 4-day EDS loiter. This replacement cost estimate corresponds to the 51.0.48 Ares V design. For the 14-day loiter case, the amount of excess propellant that is required for boil-off increases by 395 kg from the 4-day baseline amount. An additional mass increase would also be required to account for the additional required tankage, photovoltaic arrays MMOD protection, and reboost. The 51.0.48 Ares V design would not be viable with th at amount of additional mass For a 14-day loiter period, in order to produce a viable architecture, the Ares V would have to be switched to the 51.0.47 design option, which includes composite solid rocket booster \(SRB\ casings and hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene \(HTPB\ SRB propellant. The 51.0.47 has a greater marginal cost than th e 51.0.48, which increases the cost of No Second Launch from 2.88 to 3.11 AI. In addition, there would be added costs that were not calculated as part of this study for the added EDS complexity A 24-day loiter period, which would require an additional 439 kg of propellant beyond th e 14-day case and additional tankage mass, was not considered to be a viable option even with the 51.0.47 Ares V. The reduction in PnSL between 14 and 24 days was relatively small \(0.019 and 0.012 respectively\par ed with the added mass that would be required The 4-day EDS loiter case provides 1000 kg delivery capability to the lunar surface Reducing the loiter period below four days would only provide a small marginal increase in surface delivery capability. Because the PnSL and the expected vehicle replacement costs grow substantially worse as the loiter period is reduced below four days, the 1-, 2-, and 3-day loiter periods were determined to be suboptimal. For the V-I launch order, the 4-day EDS loiter with the 51.0.48 Ares V and the 14-day EDS loiter with the 51.0.47 Ares V were selected as candidate cases for final comparison For the I-V launch order, the EDS and Orion loiter periods of one, two, three, and four days were considered. Again the Orion mass was not varied for shorter LEO durations 


  11 Table 8 shows the PnSL, cost, and PLOC data for each of these options As can be seen from the data in Table 8, both the PnSL and the expected vehicle replacemen t cost increase rapidly as the loiter period decreases below 4 days. In addition because the PnSL increases, th e added PLOC also increases substantially as the loiter duration is shortened. As with the V-I case, the reduction in loiter mass that can be achieved by shortening the loiter period below 4 days is relatively small. For the I-V launch order, loiter periods for the EDS and Orion of less than 4 days were considered to be suboptimal. Only the four-day loiter period was considered for the I-V launch order in the final comparison of cases 9  C OMPARISON OF L AUNCH O PTIONS  Based on the results that are described earlier, three cases were evaluated and compared in the final definition of a 1\275-launch point operational con cept. Table 9 describes the three cases Table 9. Downselected Launch Options Case Launch Order EDS Loiter Orion Loiter Separation 1 I-V 4-Days 4-Days 90-Minute 2 V-I 4-Days 4-Days 90-Minute 3 V-I 14-Days 4-Days 90-Minute  The three final options were compared for each identified FOM. The option\(s\a ximized performance for each FOM were identified. Finally, the results were subjectively compared across all of the FOMs PnSL and Cost of Failure Table 10 summarizes the PnSL and replacement cost metrics for each of the three final options The data in Table 10 shows that a V-I launch order with a 14-day loiter provides the lowest possible PnSL at 1.9 The 4-day loiter cases for the V-I and I-V launch order are similar at 4.7% and 5.4%, respectively. For the expected vehicle replacement cost, the I-V 4-day case provides the lowest cost, at 0.05 AI per mission. The V-I 14-day loiter even with its small PnSL, has a larger expected cost of 0.06 AI. The expected vehicle repl acement cost of the 4-day V-I case is significantly higher at 0.14 AI because of the higher stack replacement cost Table 10. Comparison of PnSL and Cost of Failure Case PnSL Cost of No Second Launch Ares I Stack Equiv  Expected Vehicle Replacement Cost per Crewed Mission Ares I Stack Equiv I-V 4-Day Loiter 5.4 1.00 AI 0.05 AI V-I 4-Day Loiter 4.7 2.88 AI 0.14 AI V-I 14Day Loiter 1.9 3.11+ AI 0.06 AI  Added Probability of Loss of Crew It is not possible to quantitatively compare the added probability of loss of crew as a result of the 1\275-launch operations between the I-V and V-I launch orders. While the PLOC that is added due the possibility of reflying a mission can be determined for the I-V order, it is not possible at this time to determine the added PLOC for the crew in the Ares V flight hazard area in the V-I order However, the cases can be compared subjectively, to determine if added PLOC supports the selection of one option over another. Table 11 summarizes the added PLOC for each case Table 11. Comparison of Added PLOC Case Added PLOC I-V 4-Day Loiter 1  6,092  V-I 4-Day Loiter Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area V-I 14-Day Loiter Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area  Other Considerations Aside from the primary metrics described above, several other issues were taken into consideration for these cases Table 12 summarizes these issues for each option The primary consideration was the additional requirements that are imposed by a 14-day loiter. In order to support a 14day loiter, the EDS is essentially transformed from a stage to an independent vehicle. This transformation would require significant added mass for increased MMOD protection, photovoltaic arrays and additional propellant beyond the boil-off, for reboost and attitude control. The net effect is a substantial increase in both the mass and complexity for the EDS. As discussed previously, this mass increase, along with the added mass for boil-off, results in the 51.0.48 Ares V option not being viable. The 51.0.47 Ares V option would, therefore, be required to support an EDS with a 14-day loiter. The change in the Ares V and EDS designs not only increases the unit cost of the vehicle as described above, but will also increase the DDT&E costs of the elements by a minimum estimated value of $1B. The total increase could be substantially greater Two other considerations apply to both of the V-I cases The first issue involves Ares I flight rules. In a V-I launch 


  12 order, where the Ares V and th e Altair have been placed in LEO prior to the crew launc h, as the launch opportunities expires, pressure could be placed on launch controllers to relax the Ares I launch rules in order to avoid the loss of the Ares V stack in orbit  Table 12. Comparison of Other Considerations Case Cost to Provide Added Loiter Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 0  V-I 4-Day Loiter 0 226  MMOD Protection 226  PV Arrays 226  Additional propellant for re-boost and attitude control  Table 13. Summary Comparison of Final Cases Case PnSL Expected Vehicle Replacement Cost per Crewed Mission Ares I Stack Equiv  Cost to Provide Added Loiter Added PLOC Other Considerations for a \223No Second Launch\224 Event I-V 4-Day Loiter 5.4% 0.05 AI 0 1  6,092   V-I 4-Day Loiter 4.7 0.14 AI 0 Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1B In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter 200  Replacement of Ares V stack could involve significant Program delays 200  Potential pressure to relax Ares I flight rules to avoid the loss of Ares V stack V-I 14-Day Loiter 1.9% 0.06 AI 1B Crew within Ares V Flight Hazard Area In addition to previous case 200  Ares V EDS complexity and mass increases as a function of loiter  


  13 Second, differences exist in the programmatic consequences between the loss of an Ares I stack and an Ares V stack beyond the replacement cost. Ares I and Orion flight rates could be relatively high to support ISS and lunar missions Replacing one of these stacks would be a matter of accelerating the next launch vehi cle in the pipeline. For the Ares V and Altair, however the replacement could involve more significant delays. The Ares V itself would be a more expensive and more complex vehicle to replace. The Altair lander presents the greatest complexities. A limited number of landers will be produced for the lunar campaign Acquiring an additional repl acement lander could involve the reopening of production lines. In addition, each Altair will be unique to some degree because of the mission objectives and the cargo that it carries. Finally, the cargo itself would need to be repl aced in the event of a loss Summary Comparison Table 13 summarizes the comparison of the three launch options. In this table, the cells that indicate potential negative aspects for each case are highlighted I-V 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The I-V launch order case resulted in the highest PnSL of the three final cases, with a probability of a missed second launch of 5.4 per mission. However, because of the low cost of failure for this case, it also had the lowest expected vehicle replacement cost at 0.05 AI per mission V-I 4-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227The V-I option with 4-day EDS and Orion loiter has a PnSL that is similar to that for the I-V option at 4.7%. The PnSL for this case was somewhat lower due to the lower complexity of the second launch vehicle. This case, however, resulted in the greatest expected cost of failure at 0.14 AI. In addition, the V-I launch order includes the additional considerations that involve the pressure to relax flight rules and the difficulty in replacing an Ares V stack V-I 14-Day EDS Loiter 4-Day Orion Loiter 227 Of the three options, the V-I 14-day EDS loiter case presented the best PnSL value. The 1.9% PnSL wa s less than half the PnSL for either of the 4-day loiter cas es. However, because of the high cost of failure, the overall expected vehicle replacement cost per mission was similar to that of the I-V 4-day case In evaluating this case, the primary concern, however, was over the other required costs Because of the added boil-off propellant and other described EDS complexities required to support this duration, the baseline 51.0.48 Ares V option was no longer viable. The 51.0.47 Ares V option, with an upgraded capacity, would be required. The DDT&E costs for this upgrade would be large. The cost difference for the Ares V upgrade alone is estimated to be greater than $1B. In addition, the costs to upgrade the EDS, including photovoltaic arrays and MMOD protection, would be added. Although these are one-time DDT&E costs rather than recurring costs, they occu r in a phase of the program where the budget is most restricted In addition, the 51.0.47 design for the Ares V has been reserved as an option in case it is needed because of mass growth or performance uncertainty for the transportation system. If the upgraded design is adopted in the baseline to support a 14-day loiter and a more complex EDS, then no current options are available to provide a hedge against mass growth or performance uncertainty in the transportation system. While further upgrades to the EDS are possible, these upgrades were not considered desirable when the 51.0.48 and 51.0.47 options were down-selected for further consideration by the Constellation Program Because of the requirement to upgrade the Ares V to the 51.0.47 option, as well as the added complexity of the EDS stage, the V-I 14-day loiter case was removed from consideration for the 1\275-launc h launch operational concept While this option offers a significantly lesser PnSL than the other two options at 1.9% ve rsus 4.7% - 5.4%, the added costs and risks associated with this option, particularly costs during the crucial DDT&E period, were determined to be unacceptable. This opinion was reinforced by the results for total expected replacement cost While the V-I 14-day loiter case has a low PnSL, because of the high consequence of failure, the total expected replacement cost was actually somewhat greater than for the I-V 4-day loiter case 10  S ELECTION OF 1 1  2 L AUNCH P OINT OF D EPARTURE O PERATIONAL C ONCEPT  As described previously, the V-I 14-day loiter case was determined by decision makers to involve too much added cost and risk to justify the resultant improvement in PnSL The decision was reinforced by the fact that the second primary metric, the expected cost of failure, was not improved by the V-I case with a longer loiter period The two final cases, the I-V 4-day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter, were compared; the I-V launch order was selected for the baseline point-of-depar ture architecture The PnSL values, which represent the probability of a failure event during the dual launch phase, were similar for the I-V and V-I cases, at 5.4% and 4.7%, respectively. The expected replacement cost per mission was significantly lower for the I-V case, howev er. Even with the cost uncertainty, the I-V case clearly would likely always result in a lower total cost Crew safety was a major consideration in selecting between the two cases. A clear, quantifia ble added risk to the crew exists in selecting the I-V launch order. The crew would be required to endure an additiona l set of launch, loiter, and EDL events in the case of a missed second launch 


  14 However, because the probab ility of loss of crew is conditional to the PnSL, the overall added risk of 1 in 6,092 is considered to be quite small. This is particularly true when the added risk is compared with the overall risks to the crew that are anticipated for a human lunar mission In addition, although they could not be quantified at this point in time, additional crew risks are associated with the V-I launch order. Although no determination can be made at this point whether these range safety risks may be similar in magnitude to the added risks in the I-V case, they certainly cannot be totally discounted The selected I-V case with a 4-day loiter and 90-minute separation offered the most balanced results across the FOMs that were used in this study. The PnSL of 5.4% was larger than other cases but sim ilar to the PnSL that could be achieved in any case if the Ares V was limited to the 51.0.48 option. The consequence of failure in this case was much less than for the V-I case, which resulted in an expected cost of less than ha lf of that for the V-I launch order In addition, the other complexities that were associated with the V-I launch order\226potential pressure to relax flight rules and the disruptions caused by having to replace an Ares V\226 also trended toward the selection of the I-V launch order 11  P OINT OF D EPARTURE AND U NCERTAINTY  Note that the selected 1\275-launch operational concept represents only a point-of-departu re architecture to be used as a baseline for ongoing lunar architecture studies. It does not represent a final selection of launch order, separation, or loiter period, and NASA is taking no steps to preclude a change in the operational concept in the future In fact, because of the uncerta inty that is involved in the initial design and costing, the possibility exists that, upon further refinement, the parame ters that drive this study could change to a degree that would cause the operational concept to be reconsidered In addition, significant uncertainty exists in the data that were used to generate the Pn SL results in C-RAST. Because the Ares V is still in the early stages of design, large amount of uncertainty still exists as to the launch reliability for the vehicle. As the design matures and more accurate estimates of reliability become available, the operations concept could also be reconsidered In fact, it may ultimately be desirable to develop a 1\275launch system that allows for launch in either order. For the purposes of this study, the Ares V reliability and, therefore the PnSL were treated as consta nt values. Because there is a limited test program for the Ares V before the crewed lunar mission begins, there is liable to be significant growth in reliability for the Ares V over a number of missions. If the initial reliability is low, then the desire would be to launch the Ares V first so that the crew is not launched unnecessarily. Because the values used in this analysis represent the mature steady-stat e estimates, the PnSL for the I-V options could be worse than predicted in this analysis for some number of early missions. If the initial reliability is significantly lower, then it may be desirable to launch initial missions in a V-I order and then switch to I-V as reliability improves To address this uncertainty, an additional set of analyses was completed. In this uncertainty analysis, calculations were made to determine how much each major input parameter would have to change in order to cause the launch option decision to change, if that decision were made on expected replacement cost alone. The analysis was conducted by comparing the final two options: the I-V 4day loiter and the V-I 4-day loiter cases The results of the uncertainty analysis are shown in Table 14. In this table, the current estimate used for each major parameter is listed. Then, the value for each parameter at which the launch order decision \(based on the expected cost of failure\would switch is listed. Generally, the required shifts are large, although the required changes in Table 14 are for single variables only. Simultaneous changes of multiple parameters that are lower in magnitude could also cause a change in the launch order decision The greatest level of uncertain ty in the current analysis involves the transportation element replacement costs Because of the uncertainty involving fixed and marginal costs for Altair and because of the uncertain nature of cost estimates in early design large shifts could potentially occur in the cost data for all elements as the designs mature Table 14. Sensitivity of Launc h Order Decision to Major Parameters Parameter Current Estimate Value at Which Launch Order Would Switch \(if all other values remain constant PnSL I-V 4-day loiter 5.4% 13.5 PnSL V-I 14-day loiter 4.7% 1.9 Cost of Ares I Stack 1.00 AI 2.5 AI Cost of Ares V Stack 2.88 AI 1.15 AI  


  15 In order to represent the impact of uncertainty in the cost data, a \223breakeven\224 cost ratio was determined. The important factor in compari ng expected costs for the I-V and V-I launch orders is not the absolute costs of the Ares I and Ares V stacks but rather the relative costs between the two. Given the predicted PnSL values for the I-V and V-I cases, any set of cost data in wh ich the cost of the Ares V is greater than 115% of the cost of the Ares I will result in the expected replacement cost pe r mission for the I-V option being lower. This relationship is depicted graphically in Figure 6 Figure 6 can be used to determine the resultant optimal launch order for any set of Ares I and Ares V stack replacement costs, based on mini mizing the expected cost of failure. The cost of the Ares V stack is specified on the horizontal axis, and the cost of the Ares I stack is specified on the vertical axis. The sloping red line in the center of the figure represents the break-even cost boundary. If the set of costs is below this line in the light-blue region, then the I-V launch order is preferable. If the set of costs are above the red line in the light-green region, then the V-I launch order is preferable The intent of Figure 6 is to provide a visual indication of how much change could occur in the cost estimates before the launch order decision would be reconsidered. The current cost estimates are represented as a vertical bar on the chart. The Ares I cost is fixed at 1.00 AI. The Ares V cost is represented as a range of 1.65 to 2.88 AI, which represents the full range that is produced by the possible inclusion of fixed costs Across the range of current co st estimates, a large margin still exists before the break-eve n point is reached. Even with no fixed costs included for the Ares V, the Ares V cost would have to decrease by 32%, or the Ares I cost would have to increase by 47% for the cost of failure to be equal for the two cases. These changes seem to be outside the current range of cost uncertainty The Constellation Program has initiated an action to monitor the key parameters identified in this analysis as the transportation element designs continue to mature. If the designs reach a state at wh ich the selected point-ofdeparture operational concept is called into question, then this baseline may be updated 12  S UMMARY  The initial specification of an operational concept for the 1\275-launch solution was largely based on three assumptions First, there was a \223gut reaction\224 that one would not want to risk launching a crew until the EDS and lander were safely in orbit. Second, the assumption was made that the probability of missing the second launch could be substantially reduced by providing a long loiter period for  Figure 6 \226 Relative Ares I and Ares V Stack Costs 


  16 the EDS. Finally, with long EDS loiter periods, the assumption was made that a 24-hour launch separation would have no significant impact on mission success More detailed analysis indicat ed that all three of these assumptions were not entirely accurate. The added risk to the crew, dictated by the c onditional probability of enduring a second launch and encountering a loss-of-crew event, was quite small, especially as compared with the total risk for a human lunar mission The ability to use added loiter to reduce PnSL was largely limited by the Ares V capabilities. Loiter periods of more than four days would require a change to the selected Ares V option \(significantly increasing DDT&E and unit cost and would substantially increase the complexity of the EDS Finally, with shorter loiter periods, the 24-hour launch separation significantly increased the probability of no second launch. The increase in PnSL outweighed the advantages of having a long separation between the launches Taking these limitations into account, the assumed launch order, launch separation, and lo iter duration were called into question. A structured methodology to evaluate the probability of failure, the cost of failure, and the risk to the crew allowed NASA decision makers to methodically compare the options and to se lect a point-of-departure for 1\275-launch operations that would result in the best expected mission performance Loiter durations of greater than four days were determined to be nonviable. The added cost and complexity of the Ares V and the EDS, particularly during the DDT&E period would impose significant affo rdability issues. Although the PnSL could be substantially reduced by increasing the loiter, these improvements did not justify the added complexity With loiter periods limited to four days or less, the 24-hour launch separation was also determined to be nonviable Although switching to a 90-minute separation would impose some operational complexity at launch and could impose some additional risk to the crew in a V-I launch order, these factors were outweighed by the significant penalty to PnSL Finally, the launch order itself was evaluated. With a 4-day loiter, both launch orders resulted in similar values for PnSL. The I-V order would result in some added crew risk in the event of a missed launch, but the magnitude of the added risk was determined to be quite small, especially because the crew would face some indeterminate added flight hazard risk in the V-I option as well. The major discriminator between launch orders was in the expected cost of failure. Because a 1\275-l aunch failure in the V-I order would result in the loss of an Ares V, the EDS, and the Altair lander, the consequence of failure is quite high. A failure in the I-V launch order would result in substantially lower costs to replace the Ares I and an Orion service module and refurbish an Orion crew module. The result of the large difference in relative co sts is that the expected cost of failure is substantially lower for the I-V launch order The results of the study allowed decision makers to select a I-V launch order, with a 90-minute separation and a 4-day EDS/Orion LEO loiter period as the point-of-departure operational concept. This concept will serve as the baseline for ongoing lunar mission development. However, as designs mature and the major parameters used in this analysis are refined, the operational concept for the 1\275launch solution will be further evaluated R EFERENCES    223Expl orat i on Sy st em s Archi t ect ure St udy   Fi nal  R e port 224  NASA-TM-2005-214062, November 2005. url http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/constellation/news/E SAS_report.html   Doug C ooke, \223Lunar Archi t ect ure Updat e\224 Nat i onal  Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2007. url http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/190083main_AIAA_ESMD_fin alSPACE2007.pdf 3 Gran t Cates, W illiam Cirillo an d Ch el Stro m g ren   223Lo w  earth orbit rendezvous strategy for lunar missions,\224 Proceedings of the I EEE 2006 Winter Simulation Conference ed. L.F. Perrone, F.P. Weiland, J. Liu, and B.G. Lawson, Piscataway, NJ, 2006, pp. 1248-1252  Phil Sum r all, Steve Creech, \223R efinements in the Design of the Ares V Cargo Launch Vehicle for NASA\222s Exploration Strategy\224,  AIAA 2008-4981, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Chel Stromgren currently serves as the Chief Scientist of the Center for Strategic Analytics at Science Application International Corporation \(SAIC\ this role Mr. Stromgren leads the development of probability and risk-based strategic models and strategic analysis of complex system development. Mr Stromgren has supported NASA in the analysis of Space Shuttle and International Sp ace Station operations in the post-Columbia environment and has led the development of strategic campaign models for the lunar exploration initiatives. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Marine Engineering and Naval Architecture from the Webb 


  17 Institute and a Master of Science degree in Systems Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Grant Cates is a Senior Operations Research Analyst at SAIC. He retired from NASA in 2006 after 25 combined years in federal service, including 7 years on active duty in the Air Force. At NASA he served in varying capacities on the Space Shuttle Program, including Space Shuttle Columbia Vehicle Manager and Flow Director He received a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Central Florida in 2004 William Cirillo currently serves as a Senior Researcher at NASA Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia, where he has worked for past 20 years in the area of Human Space Flight Systems Analysis. This has included studies of Space Shuttle, International Space Station, and Human Exploration beyond low Earth orbit. In 2005, Mr. Cirillo served at NASA Headquarters as a core member of the Exploration Systems Architecture Study \(E SAS\, where he was responsible for studying the use of Ares I/Orion in meeting future ISS crew and logistics transportation needs. Mr Cirillo currently leads a team of analysts within the NASA Constellation Program in assessing at a strategic and tactical level the manifesting of assembly and logistics flights for establishing permanent human presence on the Moon 


Figure 11  HIIAPS Data Processing Flow of previous processing systems HIIAPS would both reduce the costs and risk of creating a new processing center Storage Media Disk vs Tape Initially EOSDIS used tape-based storage Now it is slowly transitioning to disk based storage 31 34 T ape is easily transportable has faster read/write speeds but it is sequential access storage and a nearline media 36 37 On the other hand disk has a higher storage capacity per unit makes the data easily accessible online experiences more frequent technology upgrades but has higher electrical costs and is more prone to error 36 37 Disk storage is also more convenient to use because it is random access and data can be kept online as opposed to nearline or of\003ine all the time thus shortening data retrieval times It was been shown that disk storage is more expensive in the short term but in the long term the cost difference between disk and tape systems seems to converge This combined with the f act that ACPS the Ozone Monitoring Instrument Data Processing System OMIDAPS and MODAPS are all disk based storage leads to the conclusion that HIIAPS should also be an entirely disk based system especially with the Kryder's Law disk storage densities double every 23 months taken into account Data Formats As the previous section states it is imperative that HyspIRI data is made available to as many non-remote sensing scientists as possible Part of achieving this goal will be accomplished by distributing the data in a format that is easy to use A standard format would be helpful because it would guarantee that everybody could read that 002le format However there is no single standard format for geospatial data  N ASA  s EOSDIS currently uses HDF-EOS5 which is good for processing but not everyone can easily read the HDF 002le format 40 41 Ev en though there is no standard some formats are more easily accessible than others Using a GIS Geographic Information Systems format like a 003at georeferenced JPEG or PNG image would make HyspIRI data readily accessible to an already large user base and to those who do not use a GIS program The Open GIS Consortium Inc R r OGC is working to solve this formatting issue and towards Open GIS 43 223Open GIS is the full integration of geospatial data into mainstream information technology What this means is that GIS users would be able to freely exchange data over a range of GIS software systems and networks without having to worry about format conversion or proprietary data types Working with the OGC or at least staying in touch with their progress would help to maximize interoperability and accessibility Based on this HyspIRI should have at least two standard data formats One would be HDF-EOS5 because that is the standard NASA EOS format and HIIAPS can draw on pervious NASA experience for it The second would be a GIS ready format like a georeferenced JPEG or PNG to increase accessibility to HyspIRI data This section looked at how HyspIRI might 002t into the EOSDIS framework several previous processing systems and touched on accessibility and interoperability concerns HyspIRI should take advantage of the present EOSDIS infrastructure However HIIAPS should be a stand alone processing center so that HyspIRI's large data volume does not overtax the existing EOSDIS system There are three heritage systems for HIIAPS MODAPS OMIDAPS and ACPS each an the evolution of the next There has been a steady shift from tape-based storage to disk-based storage over the years Thus HIIAPS should use a disk-based storage system In addition to storage and processing distribution is also a concern for the HyspIRI mission HyspIRI data should be made available at no charge to as many people as possible in a manner accessible to as many people as possible Some of the challenges are choosing a data format reaching non-remote sensing scientists and providing the data in an easy to 002nd manner Using Google Earth TM and supplying HyspIRI data products in more than one format will help to solve this challenge 8 C ONCLUSION An end-to-end data system has been described for the HyspIRI mission a high data volume Earth-observing mission With the HyspIRI mission ambitious science objectives are driving the development of a cutting-edge data handling system both on-board the spacecraft and on the ground 18 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





