   Availability, Reliability and Accuracy of GPS Signal in Bandar Baru Bangi for the Determination of Vehicle Position and Speed  Ishak Mohamad  Department of Electrical, Electronics and Systems Engineering, Faculty of Engi neering and Built Environment Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 43000 Bangi, Malaysia ibm@eng.ukm.my  Mohd. Alauddin Mohd. Ali1 1,2 and Mahamod Ismail 1,2   1 Department of Electrical, Electronics and Systems Engineering, Faculty of Engi neering and Built Environment 2 Institut of Space Science,  Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 43000 Bangi, Malaysia mama@eng.ukm.my, mahamod@eng.ukm.my 
  Abstract The Global Positioning System \(GPS provides special features which can be utilized for wide range of applications. By providing information such as location, directio n and speed, GPS is tr aditionally used for navigation. Nowadays many more applications, from farming, surveying to incident detection in fact fully utilized the GPS. This study accesses GPS signal and determines vehicle location and speed parameter such as maximum speed, maximum acceleration and deceleration Assessing the GPS signal is important before implementing any application in certain area. The availability and reliability of the GPS are influenced by several variables for example tall building, ge ometrical condition and big 
tree might block the GPS si gnal and reduce the data quality. It will affect the efficiency of any application based on GPS and become useless. Two types of tests had been setup, static positioning a nd mobile positioning where GPS probe vehicles were used to collect data in Bandar Baru Bangi, Malaysia trunk roads. The preliminary tests show promising results of availability and reliability percentage accuracy, number of satellites in view and Horizontal Dilution of Precision values. Th e next stage of this research will apply the speed parameter obtained for Automated Incident Detection \(AID\ algorithm  Keywords-component GPS; location; speed assessment incident detection  I. INTRODUCTION 
 The Global Positioning System \(GPS\rovides special features which can be utilized for wide range of applications By providing information such as location, direction, speed and etc., GPS is traditionally used for navigation. It was originally developed as military tool and later available for civil usage. Other applications are timing, surveying, logistics traffic management, security, marketing, fishing, incident detection, farming and etc. Conventional GPS receiver had accuracy up to 100 m, but with the use of differential GPS dGPS\is can be narrowed to less than 10 m [2 Th e researchers, continually thinking of new ways to improve the 
product, created real-time-kinematic technology \(RTK\which allowed for the GPS receivers to be updated more quickly. A new cellular networks assisted-GPS \(AGPS\orm significantly better than GPS in stand-alone mode due to the faster satellites equalization time, improve service availability in urban canyon and indoor and reduced terminal complexly However AGPS had a poor accuracy up to 200 m. The availability, reliability and accuracy of the GPS are influenced by several variables. The number of satellites available to the receiver is clearly important and a theoretical minimum of four satellites is required to obtain a 3D position fix. In addition, the geometrical arrangement of the satellites relative to each other and the receiver affects the quality of the 
triangulation for position [8 Assessing the availability, reliability and accuracy of GPS signal is important before implementing any application in certain area. The probability of receiving four or more GPS satellites with good geometry, quantified by a Position Dilution of Precision \(PDOP\f less than six and an elevation higher than 5\260 is about 99%. This is, however, a 24 hours global average, and not a guarantee for the availability at a special place and time on Earth S is a lin e of s i g h t  LOS\gnal service and it can be blocked, impeded or degraded by local topography, man-made structures and vegetation canopy [3 a ll b u ild in g   g e o m etrical co n d iti o n  and big tree might block the GPS signal and reduce the data 
quality. It will affect the efficiency of any application based on GPS and become useless. GPS has been shown to be an accurate method to determine the position of a subject during biological and biomechanical studies  i m p l e ch e a p  and lightweight non-differential GPS units have been used for applications in animal tracking d th e acc u r ac y o f t h es e systems for the determination of speed has recently been test  GPS is one of the best method to allocate vehicle location but to measure vehicle speed, there are many techniques can be used. The most common is by using conventional car speedometer. However it needs a special equipment to convert analog to digital signal in order to send data to a computer for 
monitoring and recording. Laser speed guns, which rely on the principle of Doppler shift, are also commonly employed for the determination of vehicular speed, the velocity of ballistics and the speed of movement of small mammals e ver  these techniques are limited to single point, instantaneous measurements. Integration of body-mounted accelerometer signals is possible but error handling during integration. The other drawback of above techniques is they could only Proceeding of the 2009 International Conference on Space Science and Com\munication\r\n                      26-27 October 2009, Port Dickson, Ne\geri Sembilan, Malaysia 978-1-4244-4956-9/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE 224 


  measure speed but not velocity. The advantage of using GPS is simultaneous measured speed, direction and vehicle location Nowadays, GPS technology has made it become more accurate, smaller, reliable, and economical. Sony and Trimble for instant had GPS chipset with accuracy better than 2.5 m To evaluate GPS signal, GPS receiver with higher position accuracy and lower velocity resolution will be used. An expensive and bulky sub-centimeter accuracy dGPS receiver however will not be used in this study. Portable and small GPS receiver is appropriate because tests will be done at several test points and in vehicles. It is currently not clear whether the improved positional accuracies of dGPS are mirrored by enhancements in the accuracy of speed determination, since GPS speed determination does not rely solely on differentiation of position data over time but also depends on Doppler shift of the carrier wave. Further, the discontinuation of Selective Availability \(SA\ in May 2000 has meant that the accuracy of standard, non-differential GPS systems is improved for position and possibly for speed determination f o r m ati o n s u c h as v e h i cle coordin a te speed, direction, satellite in view and Horizontal Precision of Dilution \(HDOP\e meaningful output of the receiver. It will be recorded at static locations and moving locations \(in vehicle\or database and further assessments. Number of satellites in view and HDOP value are two parameters to be used for justifying GPS availability and reliability during the field test. For incident detection application and location determine, HDOP is more important because it reflect to the accuracy of latitude and longitude with provide location for vehicle. However, Vertical Precision of Dilution \(VDOP for altitude determination to complete 3D position. The accurate positioning provided by GPS is created through triangulation, the process of finding a particular place on Earth by knowing the distances between the GPS handheld receiver and the GPS satellites. In order to triangulate, the receiver calculates the distance between it and at least three satellites The distance is found by receiving microwaves that the satellites send down to the handheld units [6 n id eal HD OP is 1.0, the greatest predicted accuracy of triangulation and the maximum value of 50 means that the fix is unreliable. In practical, HDOP-values below 4 are good, above 8 bad. The response of the GPS system to changing satellite availability is of interest for potential application of the system in conditions of less than ideal sky-view This paper discusses the assessment of GPS availability reliability and accuracy at static and mobile locations in Bandar Baru Bangi, Malaysia and to determine vehicle speed threshold values for incident detection algorithm later on Section II of this paper discusses the materials and methods used in this study. Section III describes the data collection Section IV and V presents the results and discussion. Finally Section VI concluded the paper  II.     MATERIALS AND METHODS  The assessment of GPS signal was tested using GPS modem receiver \(internal Trimble Copernicus module\ring series of field tests. The selection of this receiver because it\222s later will be used in incident detection study where the mobile GPS data will be transmitted to base station. GPS data were collected at four static locations to examine GPS satellites triangulation.  GPS data also collected at different locations and different times while the vehicle was moving along the trunk roads. These data were us ed to asses GPS availability and reliability and vehicle speed along the roads The GPS receiver has position accuracy level better than 2.5 m \(50%\d 5 m \(90%\ The velocity resolution is 1 km and accuracy is 1km per hour. The receiver was configured to provide output in National Marine Electronics Association NMEA\ormat data at the frequency of once in 5 seconds and baud rate of 38400 bits per second. Algorithm written in Microsoft Visual Basic.net was used to collect, filter and display data to a monitor in a real time. Real time monitoring was needed to ensure any problem happening during tests will be solved immediately. Information of the display were GPS coordinate in longitude, latitude and altitude, Coordinated Universal Time Constant \(UTC\eed of the vehicle over ground \(SoG\rection and number of satellites in view. For moving vehicle test, the GPS receiver was mounted at the dashboard of a car and connected to laptop via serial port cable. Magnetic mounted antenna was installed at the center of the car roof in order to provide a consistent sky view at all time. Locations of vehicle were plotted on the digital map in algorithm display to validate the GPS accuracy If the plotted coordinates were outside the path it should  be the number of satellites in view maybe less than four or the geometrical arrangement of satellites relative to each other and the receiver was weak. In order to collect valid data, same types of GPS receivers but different model of vehicles were used. From recorded data, number of satellites in view, HDOP and velocity for each data fixed was identified using algorithm written in MATLAB \(The Mathworks, Massachusetts, USA  III.    DATA COLLECTION  In order to obtain the best result for assessment, two phases of data collection were carried out. First, 24-hours continuous GPS data were collected at 4 different static position test places within the studied area to examine triangulation of GPS satellites. The distance between 4 test places are minimum 2 km between each other. The system setup was same as normal GPS data collection, where the GPS antenna was put at unblocking roof of the building and receiver together with data logging computer were in airconditioning room. Secondly, data were collected using mobile vehicle. The vehicle was equipped with the setup shown in Figure 1. At a particular time, only one car was used to collect data around this area but 3 models of cars were used for all tests, Perodua 850 cc, Hyundai 1600 cc and Honda 2000 cc      Fig.1: In-vehicle Instrumentation consisted of GPS modem, laptop, 12V car adaptor and interfacing equipment. Magnetic mounted antenna was installed at the center of the car roof 225 


  In order to record maximum speed, test must be done on a dry road, low traffic flows and day time. However it is difficult to get low traffic flow during day time. Low traffic flow at night does not guarantee reaching maximum speed because of darkness. In order to get maximum acceleration and deceleration, tests must be carried out with all types of traffic flow and weather conditions. All field tests were carried out in the morning, afternoon, evening and at night. The route of field test is illustrated in Figure 2. The intentional four points for static position data collection are P1, P2, P3 and P4      In general the paper aims at the availability and reliability and comparison of the 4 static position tests and 8 mobile tests. The quality criteria relevant for geodetic and navigation issues are availability, reliability and accuracy. Reliability may be called correctness, too. Availability is the probability or the measure that a system delivers specified complete information at the right time. The availability quality parameter is the availability rate in percentage  A   T t 226 T n  100  1   T t  with T t  total measurement time T n  measurement time without coordinates  Correctness or reliability describes the ability of a system to deliver information corresponding to the reality. Here the deviations between measured and given coordinates should not exceed a limit specified to three times the standard deviation. The reliability quality parameter is the reliability rate in percentage, whereby the percentage value is referred to the number of available measurements n a  taken within the time T a   T t  T n   R  n 3 100   2  n a   with n 3 number of observations within the 3   limit   where standard deviation   3   Accuracy describes the random different between measured and given value. The accuracy of GPS receiver normally was given by manufacturer  IV. RESULTS  4.1 Static Position Tests  A total of 17280 fixed GPS data were collected for each 24-hours test. The graph in Figure 3 shows the coordinate position on June 4, 2009 to June 5, 2009 over a period of 24 hours. Mean value of latitude is 2.961343 and longitude is 101.777341. The edge of the diagram is 20 m and all points are located within a radius of 10 m     More than 50% of GPS coordinates were within 2.5 m 90% within 5 m and less than 0.1% were between 5 m to 10 m. Hence, the accuracy of the GPS receiver as given by the manufacturer can be confirmed. The graphs for another three test points are not presented here because the result are not different. Table 1 shows the value of availability and reliability for all static position tests. Value for standard deviation for each test point was calculated using equation \(3 All the value is less than 3. The availability rate shows values of more or less 100 % for all places. The reliability rate, with other words the ability to protect against outliers, is excellent For all scenarios the values are larger than 99.7 %, meaning that 99.7 % of all measurements are within a sphere around the reference point coordinates  TABLE 1 AVAILABILITY AND RELIABILITY RATES FOR 24 HOURS STATIC POSITION TESTS  Test point Availability rate  Reliability rate  P1 latitude 2.9211862 longitude 101.777972 2.913   99.998   99.87 P2 latitude 2.964518, longitude 101.756916 2.620   99.998   99.94 P3 latitude 2.961343, longitude 101.777341 2.752   100   99.97  P4 latitude 2.941904, longitude 101.767956 2.890   100   99.78 Fig.2: Route of field tests and four static location test points Fig.3: Plot of the position determination at one static position test point 226 


  Number of satellites in view and HDOP value are related to the availability, reliability and accuracy of the position fix To evaluate the triangulation of satellites within this area numbers of satellites in view and HDOP value are plotted together in one graph to show the relation between them Figure 4 shows the number of satellites in view and HDOP value for each GPS fixed data. Note that the lower HDOP values and the higher number of satellites in view values had been observed. The result for static position tests at 4 locations within the range of studied area is in Table 2. The emphasis is for the minimum number of satellites in view and maximum HDOP value Minimum number of satellites in view which were more than 6 and HDOP value show that at all time, the triangulation of GPS satellites are very good in this area. It can provide good GPS signal and higher horizontal accuracy which are needed for vehicle position identifying. Nevertheless, the horizontal accuracy of GPS receiver for static position theoretically better than mobile position but for mobile position, similar test had to be carried out.  Average number of HDOP value for all tests is 0.8 a\ P1 b\ P2 c\ P3 d\ P4  TABLE 2 NUMBER OF SATELLITES IN VIEW AND HDOP VALUES FOR STATIC POSITION TESTS  Test Point Minimum number of satellites in view  Maximum value of HDOP P1  6 1.32 P2  6 1.48 P3  7 1.42 P4  6 2.0  4.2 Mobile Position Tests  More than 720 GPS locations were recorded in every test and make a total of 8142 fixed in 8 field tests.  Raw data were stored in dynamic data storage at each time interval, for subsequence analysis. Another algorithm was used to extract useful data from raw NMEA-0183 format such as UTC longitude, latitude, altitude, number of satellites in view HDOP, vehicle speed and direction in degree respect to the north. Data were processed separately according to each test to produce plotted vehicle coordinates and speed and speed change graphs. Combined data from all tests were used to produce information on number of satellites in view, HDOP and Speed Distribution. Plotted vehicle coordinates \(latitude and longitude\ shown in Figure 5 shows the path of vehicle during field tests. All 8 field tests took the same path and produced the same results. GPS receiver had no problem receiving signal from satellites as no large objects, such as tall building and foliage in these trunk roads could block signal transmission. Latitudes were within 2.91000 N to 2.98200 N and longitudes between 101.74500 E to 101.79500 E      Number of Satellites in view for each data fixed was identified using algorithm written in MATLAB. Figure 6 shows the percentage of number of satellites in view. The histogram shows most of the time, number of satellites in view were 7 to 11. The percentage of number of satellites in view were 4 or more is 99.87. The value shows that GPS satellites signal were available at almost all the time at the field test area Fig.4: Number of satellites in view and HDOP value for 24-hours static location tests at P1, P2, P3 and P4 Fig.5: Plotted coordinates of vehicle along Bandar Baru Bangi Trunk roads 227 


                   HDOP is an error term determined from the geometry of satellites used for the position fix. This is therefore dependent upon a combination of satellite position and the number of satellites used. A low HDOP is good with minimum possible value of 1 and a maximum of 50. Since HDOP is related to accuracy of the position fix in terms of latitude and longitude its value would be expected to be reflected in the speed accuracy \(Witte & Wilson 2004\ values observed during the test are illustrated as in Figure 7. From the collected data, only 0.22 percent of data had HDOP more than 2.4. The minimum of HDOP is 0.7  and mean value is 1.0                   4.3 Vehicle Speed  Vehicle speed was supplied by GPS receiver in knot value and direction in degree. In this study, velocity \(combination of speed and direction\ is not significance but will be used later to study driver behavior when driving. Knot had to be converted into kilometer per hour for easy for calculation and evaluation with standard speedometer used in ground vehicles 1 knot = 1.582 km/h\igure 8 shows the distribution of vehicle speed for all tests. The result shows none of the speed was above 120 km/h and more than 70 percent were below 50 km/h  Vehicle speed is affected by traffic conditions, for instance heavy and moderate traffic will decrease the vehicle speed and light traffic may in crease vehicle speed. For speed assessment in this study, traffic conditions will be divided into two durations. Based on visual observations and data collected during field tests, first duration is between 6.00 am to 7.30 pm when the traffic are heavy and moderate \(Day Traffic\nd duration is between 7.30 pm to 6.00 am, when the traffic condition is light \(Night Traffic    Figure 9, one of the results of field tests shows how maximum speed, maximum deceleration and maximum acceleration for all tests were determined \(positive value is acceleration and negative value is deceleration\. A total of 4 tests were carried out during Day Traffic and 4 tests during Night Traffic at different time of the day. The 8 tests were test 1 \(8.44 am to 10.11 am\est 2 \(9.02 am to 10.34 am\est 3 11.04 am to 12.04 pm\est 4 \(2.34 pm to 4.02 pm\est 5 8.09 pm to 9.09 pm\est 6 \(10.44 pm to 11.44 pm\est 7 12.04 am to 1.04 am\d test 8 \(2.06 am to 3.06 am\raph shows 60 minutes of test even though some of the tests took more than 1 hour TABLE 3 SPEED PARAMETER  Parameter Day Traffic \(km/h Night Traffic \(km/h  Maximum Speed  96 110 Maximum acceleration 33 35 Maximum deceleration 50 -45  Result for the tests during two traffic durations is shown in Table 3. The parameters are nearly the same due to the road condition with a lot of traffic lights, junctions and roundabouts. Although driving in light traffic and early morning, between 12.30 am to 6.00 am, the driver cannot drive faster than 110 km/h because of the darkness as many trees are blocking street lights  V. DISCUSSION  GPS coordinates plotted and mapped with digital map verify the values of latitudes and longitudes obtained from GPS data. None of the coordinates was outside the roads of digital map. Continuous dotted points shows no signal lost or degraded along the route. The small gap between two points for the reason of the data was fixed once for every 5 seconds The different sizes of gaps show the different speed of vehicle No gap means the vehicle was stopped. Higher speed form bigger gap and lower speed produced small gap Fig.6: Histogram of number of satellites in view Fig.7: Histogram of Horizontal Dilution of Precision 10 x 50 kilometer data Fix every 5 seconds 8142 fixes 10 x 50 kilometer data Fix every 5 seconds 8142 fixes Fig.8: Speed Distribution 228 


      Number of satellites in view obtained during 4 static tests and 8 mobile tests which was 99 percent above 4, was adequate to supply accurate data. The lower value of HDOP which was 99 percent below 1.6, reflects to the lower value of horizontal RMS error, shows that the GPS signal were available and reliable at all the time in Bandar Baru Bangi Speed distribution as shown in Figure 8 exposes majority of the speed were below 50 km/h and not easy to achieve speed more than 110 km/h. This is due to shorter distance between two junctions and these roads only have single and double lane. The maximum distance between two traffic lights is 4.5 km only. In a normal condition, it is difficult for motorists to speed up. High speed and maximum acceleration accessed when vehicle was driven at straight and smooth road. Minimum speed and maximum deceleration happened when vehi cle was blocked by another vehicle or reached junction, traffic light or roundabout Average of lower speed in normal condition will decrease the number of traffic incident but abnormal speed of vehicle such as above speed limit, may cause incident. It is easy to understand that at high speeds the time to react to change in environment is shorter, the stopping distance is larger, and maneuverability is reduced [1 n o f  observed speed was small and the frequency of acceleration and deceleration is high due to the factors mentioned. The value of -50 can be used as a threshold number for algorithm to activate incident alarm or warning. For example, if vehicle suddenly stop at the speed 51 km/h or above, accident is considered happened  VI. CONCLUSION AND FURTHER WORK  The GPS signal in Bandar Baru Bangi is available at almost time and it is reliable too. The absolute error is very small and can be neglected. The accurate value of GPS data can be used for determination of vehicle location on the road and to assess speed. No tall building or big tree might block the GPS signal and reduce the data quality.   The preliminary results presented in section IV shows promising results for field test area. The GPS   therefore has  enormous potential for application in incident detection. The next stage    of this    research will apply  the parameter obtained      The real time GPS data from many vehicles will be transmitted as the same time to a Monitoring Station via transmitter. From Monitoring Station, Incident Detection Algorithm will process and evaluate the data and possibly triggered incident alarm ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This research is sponsored by Transportation Group Department of Civil and Structural Engineering, UKM. The authors also wish to thank the Institute of Space Science UKM for providing the technical support and equipments used in this research  REFERENCES  1  L   A a r t s  and I  V  S c hag e n, \223 D r i v i ng s p e e d a nd the r i s k o f r o ad  crashes: A review  224  Accident Analysis and Prevention 38, 2005, pp 215\226224 2 M   B ra i n  221\221How  G PS   r e c e i v e rs w o rk  222\222 Ho w s t u ff w o rk s       http:www.  //electronics. howstuffwork .com /gadget/travel/gps htm 3 P St op h e r C  F i t z G e ra ld  a n d J Z h a n g 223 S e a rc h for a g l ob a l  positioning system device to measure person travel,\224 Transportation Research Part C- 16, 2007, pp. 350 - 369  4  P  T e r r ier Q  L a de tto  B Me r m i n o d  an d Y  S c hu tz 223 H ig hpr e c i s io n  satellite positioning system as a new tool to study the biomechanics of human locomotion,\224 Journal of Biomechanics 33, 2000, pp.1717\226 1722 5 P T e rri er  Q  L a d e t t o B  M e rm i n od  a n d Y Sc hu t z  223M ea s u rem e n t of the mechanical power of walking by satellite positioning system GPS\\224 Medical Science and Sports Exercise 33, 2001, pp.1912\226 1918 6 A   T h e i ss, D.C  Ye n   an d C  Y  K u 223Gl o b a l Po si t i o n i n g Sy st e m s an  analysis of applications, current development and future implementations,\224 Computer Standards & Interfaces, Volume 27 Issue 2, 2005, pp. 89-100 7  W   L e chne r   an d S  B a u m a n n  223 G lo bal nav ig a tio n s a te l l ite s y s te m s  224 Computers and electronics in agriculture 25, 2000, pp. 67 \226 85 8  T  H  W itte a n d A  M. W il s o n 223 A ccur acy o f no nD if f e r e n tial G P S f o r determination of speed over ground,\224 Journal of Biomechanics 37 2004, pp. 1891-1898 9  T H  W i t t e and A  M W i ls on  223A c c u r a c y of W A A S e n a b l ed G P S f o r  determination of position speed over ground,\224 Journal of Biomechanics 38, 2004, pp. 1717 - 1722  K  von Hu 250 n e rb ei n  H J  H a m a nn  E  Ru t e r and W  W i lt s c hk o 223A  GPS-based system for recording the flight paths of birds,\224 Naturwissenschaften  87, 2000, pp. 278\226279 Fig.9: Speed and speed change recorded for mobile position test. Positive speed change means acceleration and negative means deceleration 229 


3.2. Customer Satisfaction  To validate our two hypotheses on the effect on customer satisfaction, we conducted a survey. Once again, the pre-implementation data were collected at viaHealth/RGH in June 2004 by a research team from Kodak. They used a satisfaction questionnaire distributed among staff and customers. With a response rate of approximately 40%, the survey yielded data from 150 referring physicians \(see Appendix A In August 2004, the RIS/PACS system was implemented in the department. We waited for implementation to be completed at the referring physicians sites to conduct a second survey. We anticipated that we would witness a dramatic change in their satisfaction with the diagnostic imaging service We likewise expected notable improvements in staff satisfaction within the radiology department. This ex post survey was conducted in October 2006, with over 70 responses from referring physicians \(Appendix B The customer - referring physicians - survey focused on four dimensions of the process: time, workflow quality, and interaction with the radiology staff. The results are summarized in Table 2  Table 2: Satisfaction with the Department Among Customers Before RIS/PACS Implementation   The table presents the number of responses received for each question, and the median, lower and upper quartile values. In order to identify patterns in the data and highlight their similarities and differences we use the Principal Components Analysis \(PCA methodology. The table presents the results of the PCA analysis, specifying the main eigenvectors of the normalized covariance matrix of the data and their percentage explaining the responses variance The results show that referring physicians were satisfied with their level of interaction with the department personnel mainly with the radiologists median = 6\d somewhat less with the technologists and administrative staff \(median = 5\he customers were indifferent \(median = 4\arding the workflow and the quality of the service, but they were not satisfied with the time it took to produce a radiology report. Indeed, the time required to receive a final report led many respondents to act according to the preliminary report without waiting. We anticipated that implementing the RIS/PACS system would improve customers level of satisfaction from the diagnostic imaging service. Indeed, the after results were significantly higher. Figure 6 shows the median, lower and upper quartile values for each question    Figure 6. Referring Physicians Satisfaction Level After RIS/PACS Implementation  We computed one-way ANOVA to test whether data from compared questions have a common mean Our results clearly show that they do not. Table 3 quantifies the differences in referring physicians  satisfaction levels before and after RIS/PACS implementation  Table 3: Multiple Comparison: Before and After RIS/PACS Implementation   To validate our hypothesis that referring clinicians who use the new technology are more satisfied with the service than those who do not, we establish a predictor Usage of technology We add to the model another predictor Time to receive a signed final report  which the literature suggests is associated with overall Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


satisfaction. We construct a model of total satisfaction  TOT hich takes the following form TOT = b0 b1 * FNR + b2 * TCU + err Results are summarized in Table 4. We see that satisfaction is even higher among those referring physicians who actively use the technology fully with PACS at their own or the hospital s site. The results are statistically significant at p < 1  Table 4: Model of Total Satisfaction: After RIS/PACS Implementation   4. Discussion  Some works documented in detail new information technology \(IT\plementation in a single manufacturing organization o ppos ed to m o re  general studies that analyze data from many organizations. However, this work is amongst the first to study a service organization, particularly in healthcare, with IT impact. Therefore, here intangibles like satisfaction, are as important as tangibles, such as turn around time \(TAT\e financial impacts on the service provider - and those were documented in detail As we observed, the rapid improvement, that does not coincide with the common productivity paradox  is a direct result of the fact that the bottleneck in our case was the most prone to technology usage, and happily adopted his part in the system implementation Having such an outstanding improvement on the spot fueled the improvement process of the whole organization, and enabled significant gains in productivity From a managerial perspective, case examination at the end of the study period showed that the bottom-line impact of the lead-time improvements was significant for viaHealth/Rochester General Hospital \(RGH\e observed a phenomenal 63% year-long learning rate after the RIS/PACS systems were implemented During that period, TAT shrunk by 80%, indicating that most of the benefits of RIS/PACS take time and added effort to be fully realized. The billing process became more authentic and reliable, as all preps procedures, and exams could be captured, and the rate of lost studies decreased from 10% to less that 1%. We documented a steady increase in revenue of more than 3 per procedure per month. Taking into consideration an average rise in charges rates of about 5% annually this gives a pure rate of billing improvement of 1% per month per procedure, not to mention the 20% rise in number of procedures during the first year. Finally, the satisfaction level of referring physicians went up dramatically from around 3 to 6 on a 7-point Likert scale  4.1. Limitations  Implementation of RIS/PACS results in significant cycle-time improvements over the long term throughout the imaging process, and immediate results in the transcription phase offset, in the short term, by increased time requirements while staff learn the new software. These trends drive down costs and enhance revenues under most conditions, although cycle-time reductions may not be sufficient to enable the department to attain industry performance targets Under such circumstances, however, the abundance of information and reporting options within the integrated system make possible financial analysis that can highlight profitable segments of the practice. Practice analysis tools could then uncover new ways to maximize profits by indicating which insurance programs and referring physicians are most profitable This possibility remains to be studied, based on data from a hospital s financial department  4.2. Implications  Several interesting managerial and theoretical implications emerge from our findings. First, good integration of workflow and information system forms the essential basis for any operational improvement on the part of the health-care provider. Having welldefined and well-understood processes gives the ability to respond to changes in market conditions. While defining the metrics and measuring and tracking the process, we could detect improvements in both cycle times and customer satisfaction. We witnessed a significant cycle-time improvements achieved in all phases after implementing RIS/PACS by the department. However, transcription showed an immediate and sharp improvement, while all the rest experienced longer processi ng durations immediately after implementation. This also expands literature as it focuses on the bottleneck alleviation of the process, the transcription, ultimately giving rise to a transformational effect on the service process Tanscriptionists are more professional in using computers than the rest of the staff, so that might explain this rapid pace of improvement. However, as Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


we witnessed, not before long improvements were achieved in all other phases Another important implication of the study is the potential for post-implementation improvements, such as an enhanced interface between the radiology department and other hospital departments and referring physicians. The use of information systems capabilities should lead to developing complementary procedures in all departments, which could elevate the service of the entire health-care facility. A practical managerial take away for radiology, and more generally for IT Implementations at large, is that trained customer's level of satisfaction from a service is dramatically improved given that she actually use the new technology, or get trained and understand process adaptations. We believe that investing in such customer of customer's training, not just customers bares great potential for product success and customers full utilization of product's benefits  Appendices  We conducted a satisfaction survey in RGH s Diagnostic Imaging Department, with the objective of assessing the attitudes and opinions of services postdigital\ided by the department. The survey consists of 7-point rating scale questions with verbal anchors: Very Dissatisfied \(1 point Very Satisfied \(7 points  A.  Referring MDs Before Survey  How satisfied are you with the following 1\ Length of time it takes to provide you with a preliminary \(not final\ report 2\Time to receive a signed final radiology report 3\ Prompt availability of films when you visit the file room 4\ailability of films important for patient care and/or management outside of radiology \(e.g., OR ICUs, ED, etc 5\rocess for ordering and scheduling exams 6\Patient status and information provided by the Radiology Department 7\teractions with the RGH radiologists 8\teractions with the RGH radiology staff  B.  Referring MDs After Survey  How satisfied are you with the following at this time 1\rocess for ordering and scheduling exams 2\ommunication with the Diagnostic Imaging Department regarding patient status, and patient information provided by the department 3\teractions with the department s radiologists 4\teractions with the department s technologists 5\teractions with the department s administrative staff 6\Time to receive a signed final radiology report 7\age availability 8\bility to share electronic patient images with other physicians for conducting teleradiology consultations 9\eral impression of PACS 10\ervice provided by the Diagnostic Imaging Department  Miscellaneous  1\w do you receive feedback from the Diagnostic Imaging Department \(oral/documented\ If documented, by which media \(PACS; e-mail; CDROM; Internet viewer on the Web; film; hand delivery of printed reports; hospital terminal; other 2\m your perspective, what are the major benefits of RIS/PACS 3\ What additional features and/or system changes would increase the value of RIS/PACS for your practice    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


5. References  1 T  H  D a v e nport Mis s i o n Cri tic a l: Re a liz ing the  P r om is e of Enterprise Systems. Harvard Business School Press, 2000  2 A  J. S h e n ha r a n d D  Dv ir, Re inv e nting  P r oje c t  Management: The Diamond Approach to Successful Growth and Innovation. Harvard Business School Press, Aug 2007   E  Ch esso n   Radiology is streamlining Health Imaging IT, vol. 8, August 2006  4 M. Sm ith The ultimate value proposition of PACS Improved patient care Imaging Economics, vol. 9, 2002   A  J Du erin ck x an d E G   G r an t  Cost of PACS and computed radiography in the United States Radiology, vol 208, 1998, p. 554  6 S. On d a teg u iP a rra, J. G  Bh ag w a t, K H. Zo u  E Nathanson, I. E. Gill, and P. R. Ros Use of productivity and financial indicators for monitoring performance in academic radiology departments: U.S. nationwide survey Radiology vol. 236, 2005, pp. 214 219  7 S O nda te g u iP a rra J  G  Bha gw a t K  H  Zo u, A  G o g a te   L. A. Intriere, P. Kelly, S. E. Seltzer, and P. R. Ros Practice management performance indicators in academic radiology departments Radiology, vol. 233, 2004, pp. 716 722   J  P  Crabb e C L  F r an k a n d W  W  Ny e  Improving report turnaround time: An integrated method using data from a radiology information system American Journal of Roentgenology, vol. 163, 1994, pp. 1503 1507  9 SCA R Co v e r a ge SCAR 2005 educational sessions  Health Imaging & IT, July 2005  10 D i re c tions i n  P A C S  Shoring up your IT infrastructure to implement PACS Health Imaging & IT, vol. 12 December 2004  1 L F r a t t  PACS powers the emergency department  Health Imaging & IT, November 2005  12 C. B. T h i e l s t   The future of healthcare technology  Journal of Healthcare Management, vol. 52, Jan/Feb 2007 pp. 7 9  13  E T  G  W a ng a nd A  Se idm a nn Electronic data interchange: Competitive externalities and strategic implementation policies Management Science, vol. 41, no 3, 1995, pp. 401 418  14 T  Muk hopa dhy ay S. Ke k r e  a nd S. K a la thur  Business value of information technology: A study of electronic data interchange MIS Quarterly, vol. 19, no. 2, 1995, pp. 137 156  15 M  J  Cotte le e r a nd E   Be ndoly   Order lead-time improvement following enterprise information technology implementation: An empirical study MIS Quarterly, vol 30, no. 3, 2006, pp. 643 660  1 T  M u kh op ad h y a y  an d S  Kekre  Strategic and operational benefits of electronic integration in B2B procurement processes Management Science, vol. 48, no 10, 2002, pp. 1301 1313  17 E. Bry njolf sson a nd L  M. Hitt Computing productivity: Firmlevel evidence Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 85, no. 4, 2003, pp. 793 808  18 L   M. H i t t D  J  W u  a n d X Zh ou  Investment in enterprise resource planning Journal of Management Information Systems, vol. 19, no. 1, 2002, pp. 71 98  19 A M c Afe e   The impact of enterprise information technology adoption on operational performance: An empirical investigation Production and Operations Management, vol. 11, no. 1, 2002, pp. 1 21  20 K  Sriniv a s a n S. K e k r e  a nd T  Muk hopa d h y a y   Impact of electeronic data interchange technology on JIT shipments Management Science, vol. 40, no. 10, 1994, pp 1291 1304  21 B I. Rei n er a nd E   L  Si eg el Technologists  productivity when using PACS: Comparison of film based versus filmless radiography American Journal of Roentgenology, vol. 179, 2002, pp. 33 37  22 E. G o ldr a tt T h e G o a l  A P r oc e s s of O n g o ing Improvement. 17 Great Barrington, MA: North River Press 2nd edition ed., 1992  23 R  W  Sc hm e nne r a nd M L  S w ink   On theory in operations management Journal of Operations Management, vol. 17, December 1998, pp. 97 114  24 S. Z u b o f f  I n the  A g e o f the  Sm a r t Ma c h ine  T h e Futur e  of Work and Power. New York: Basic Books, 1988  25 R  L  D a f t O r g a niz a tion T h e o ry a nd D e s i g n Cinc in na ti  OH: South-Western College Pub, 8 ed., 2003  26 E. Bry njolf s s on The productivity paradox of information technology Communications of the ACM, vol 36, December 1993, pp. 66 77  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


many proposals for NASA AOs including New Frontiers Discovery, MIDEX and SMEX opportunities, and focused mission RFPs such as Micromissions, ST3, LightSAR, ST5 TPF, and Constellation X. Bill has also supported various defense new business and proposal work. Prior to Ball Aerospace, Bill worked at FIATAVIO-BPD in Italy for 9 years and as a Member of the Technical Staff at JPL for 8 years. Bill is a member of the IEEE and an Associate 11 Fellow of the AIAA. He received his Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from the Universit  degli Studi di Pisa in Italy his M.S. in Plasma Physics from Colorado State University and his B.S. degree in Physics from the State University of New York at Cortland Richard Dissly is a Staff Scientist at Ball Aerospace, primarily supporting in situ instrument development and mission opportunities in planetary sciences He has pursued research in both planetary and Earth sciences for the past 12 years. Previously Dr Dissly spent five years at NOAA where he developed instrumentation for accurate in-situ measurements of tropospheric pollutants.  Dr. Dissly holds a doctorate in planetary sciences from Caltech Kenny Epstein has more than 28 years of experience in the design of aerospace vehicles. He is currently the Spacecraft Design Manager at Ball Aerospace &amp; Technologies Corp. His primary duties are to develop and manage new spacecraft for wide variety of missions and customers.  Prior to Ball, he was employed at Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space leading teams during conceptual development, proposal development, and new product development on a wide variety of spacecraft. Prior to Lockheed Martin Missiles &amp; Space he was employed at Lockheed Martin Skunk Works  as a lead configuration designer on several aircraft programs.  He received his B.S in Civil Engineering from the University of Colorado Dan Scheeres is the A. Richard Seebass Endowed Chair Professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder Prior to this, he held positions at the University of Michigan \(19992007 1997  1999 Navigation Systems Section at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(1992  1997 1992 M.S.E. \(1988 1987 Engineering from the University of Michigan, and holds a B.S. in Letters and Engineering from Calvin College \(1985 He is a Fellow of the American Astronautical Society, an Associate Fellow of the AIAA, and a member of the American Astronomical Society and its Divisions of Planetary Science and Dynamical Astronomy, and the International Astronomical Union. He is currently serving as an Associate Editor for the journals Celestial Mechanics amp; Dynamical Astronomy, the Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics, the Journal of the Astronautical Sciences and the Journal of Nonlinear Science Dave Waller is a mechanical engineer within the spacecraft design group at Ball Aerospace &amp 


Technologies Corp.  He is involved in all aspects of satellite design including mechanical design structural analysis, and systems engineering for both civil and defense applications.  He provides continuous support for new business proposals and is a mentor for company interns as well as senior design projects at the University of Colorado Boulder.  He has a B.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from Arizona State University and M.S.E in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Colorado Boulder pre></body></html 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Michael A. Mischna is an atmospheric scientist with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory focusing on the atmospheres and climates of terrestrial planets. He was the EDL Atmosphere Team Lead for the Mars Phoenix Mission. His research interests include longterm evolution of the martian climate, the role of greenhouse gases in providing habitable environments and surfaceatmosphere interactions. Dr. Mischna has a B.S. in atmospheric science from Cornell University, an M.S. in meteorology from the Pennsylvania State University and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Geophysics and Space Physics from the University of California, Los Angeles  Seungwon Lee is a member of the technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research interests include genetic algorithms, lowthrust trajectory design nanoelectronics, quantum computation, parallel cluster computation and advanced scientific software modernization techniques. Dr. Lee received her Ph.D. in Physics from the Ohio State University in 2002 Her work is documented in numerous journals and conference proceedings  Mark Allen is supervisor of the Earth and Planetary Atmospheres Group and Principal Scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His research interests include remote detection of trace atmospheric species, and the role of atmospheric chemistry on the atmospheres of Mars, Venus and Titan. He was the PI of the MARVEL Mars Scout proposal, and is a co-investigator on the MIRO microwave instrument on the Rosetta Orbiter. Dr Allen has a B.A. from Columbia University and received a Ph.D. in Chemistry from the California Institute of Technology in 1976     Richard J. Terrile created and leads the Evolutionary Computation Group at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory. His group has developed genetic algorithmbased tools to improve on human design of space systems and has demonstrated that computer aided design tools can also be used for automated innovation and design of complex systems. He is an astronomer, the Mars Sample Return Study Scientist, the JIMO Deputy Project Scientist and the co-discoverer of the Beta Pictoris circumstellar disk. Dr. Terrile has B.S. degrees in Physics and Astronomy from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Planetary Science from the California Institute of Technology in 1978 
 


  14  
 


Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr Battery Recharge Energy Losses 93 W-hr Shunt Energy Losses 20% Battery W-hr 187 W-hr Remaining Electrical Energy 60017 W-hr Power Conversion Losses 80% Efficiency 12003 W-hr Harness Losses \(4 Available Diurnal Load Energy \(CBE Average Load Energy Supported 67.9 W Array Area 0.20 m2 12 specifically the seismometer and magnetometer continuously while other instruments such as the heat flow probes may operate intermittently. The retroreflector does not require any thermal control resources. Telecom between the Earth and the hub or from the remote units to the hub would be during the lunar day only  Description of the Design  A thermal blanket \(MLI Silver-Teflon would be used to moderate the temperature variation of the surface. The MLI and the lunar material thermal conduction properties could be used to insulate the different ALGEP elements from the external environment  The Mars Exploration Rover thermal switch and a thermal radiator with thermal louvers would be used to reject the internally generated thermal energy. The MER Thermal Switch has the ability to transfer up to 11 W. For the hub three or four switches may be necessary, depending on the RF power output  Potentially a small electric heater/thermostat system may be needed \(on the order of 10% of the dissipated electrical energy example, the seismometer, which dissipates 1.5 W, may need a 0.15 W heater. A detailed thermal analysis would be necessary to further assess this need  The ALGEP hardware location would be dictated by the science requirements. Each ALGEP element could be either positioned on the surface or buried.  An example of a buried element would be the seismometer, while the hub could be surface mounted. In either case a surface blanket would be required. The surface blanket would minimize the lunar temperature variation, from a range of -173 to ~127  C to a range under the blanked between approximately -73 to 27  C. Initial calculations indicate that the blanket extending about 0.5 m beyond the edge of the instrument or hub would provide the temperature control of the lunar surface required to minimize the temperature variation. For the lunar night, a small electric heater may be needed to keep the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits  For polar region operation it is assumed that the ALGEP could operate at all times as the solar arrays would always have incident solar energy and could provide electrical power for operations.  Thus with electrical power for the instruments and hub, the thermal radiator and louvers could maintain the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits. Initial calculations indicate that the current conceptual thermal control design does not require electric heaters for this location  Design Rationale  The design uses MLI, thermal conduction control, electric heaters, thermal radiators thermal louvers, and a deployed surface blanket to provide thermal control to maintain the remote units and hub within specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would 


specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would minimize the temperature variation of the surface, and electric heaters would provide makeup thermal energy  Risk  The thermal subsystem design is a low to moderate risk element, as the hardware used has extensive flight experience. Although this system would be on the surface of the Moon, the environment would be space-like, with the  Figure 6  ALGEP avionics block diagram showing the power and command and data handing  interface. This is a low-power design to enable data collection during lunar night at the remote units. The hub  contains the same avionics package but does not interface with an instrument  13 exception of the infrared heating of the lunar surface therefore the space qualified thermal control hardware could provide thermal control for this mission  Command and Data Handling Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP controller is designed to meet the six year mission lifetime requirement stemming from the science objectives flowing down to the mission requirements and has a technology cutoff of 2016 \(assumes a 2020 launch interface to the science instrument and the UHF radio.  The controller for the hub interfaces to the UHF and S-band radios. Each type of controller would be single string  Design Assumptions  All selected electronic parts for the controller have a path to flight hardware with a technology cutoff of 2016. There would be one ALGEP hub that has a bi-directional S-band link to Earth and a UHF receiver link to the remote instrument units. There would be four ALGEP remote units that have UHF transmitters to link to the ALGEP hub. The controllers would have an operating temperature range: -20  C to 35  C. The total ionizing dose of radiation would be 2 krads for the mission  Description of the Design  Both controller designs would incorporate low-powered Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs devices and I/O drivers.  Portions of the existing MultiMission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP Engineering Unit \(REU IP provide the mission clock and alarm clock logic.  Both the hub and remote unit controllers would capture engineering data regarding temperatures, currents and voltages. Figure 6 provides an overview of the command and data handling and power subsystem architectures.  The remote units would be supplied with 2 Gb of memory and the hub would have 5 Gb of memory  Design Rationale  A low-powered avionics architecture would be achieved by developing a stand-alone controller capable of operating at various power levels. In the lowest power configuration only the mission clock and alarm clock logic would be active. Other logic, analog and I/O functions would be power strobed in the off mode during this very low-power mode. Science and engineering data would be stored in non-volatile memory elements that retain their data in the power-off mode  Risk  The controller requires engineering development to obtain the low-powered mode required for night operation However, it has been designed to incorporate components with flight heritage. A lower frequency oscillator would be used to reduce power  Telecom Subsystem 


Design Requirements  The telecom subsystem is designed to return 3.4 Gb of stored data every 16 days during lunar night in addition to 1.2 Gb of additional data collected each 24 hour period during daylight. This translates into a minimum direct-to-Earth return data rate of ~50 kbps for an 8 hour pass each Earth day for 16 days of sunlight. The subsystem must operate down to a temperature of -20  C and survive non-operational temperature of -50  C. The telecom subsystem would support two-way communications between the hub and the DSN network. It would also support two-way communications between the hub and each of the remote instrument packages on the surface. There would be a minimum 3 dB margin for the direct-to-Earth DTE  Design Assumptions  The telecom subsystem is assumed to be a single string design. The hub would have an S-band radio and antenna for two-way communications with a DSN 34 m ground station. The nominal downlink rate would be 120 kbps and the uplink rate would be 2 kbps. The surface links would be at UHF. The forward link data rate would be 8 kbps and the return rate would be 256 kbps. The maximum range for the surface links would be 100 m. All of the surface links would have line-of-sight between the units. It is assumed that the astronauts would point the Sband antenna towards Earth, within 5  of the center of Earth. This should be relatively easy to do as 5  is a very loose pointing requirement and the uplink/downlink would be marginally affected if the pointing is off by a little more than 5  A signal could be added which would use an uplink from the Earth to give a relative signal power to ensure the pointing requirement is met  Description of the Design  The telecom subsystem would use a commercial off-the-shelf S-band transponder \(L3 CXS-610 has a 5 W power amplifier and an S-band diplexer included This radio is used on GRAIL and a similar unit was used on Genesis. The diplexer would be connected to an S-band low gain antenna \(LGA be a 2-element S-band patch array with a boresight gain of 9 dB. It would be mounted on the end of one solar array on the hub and gimbaled to allow the astronaut to point it to the Earth  The hub communicates with each of the remote instrument units in UHF using a new UHF micro-transceiver. Each UHF microtransceiver would have a radio frequency output power of 50 mW. The UHF transceiver would use a halfduplex system meaning it would transmit and then listen However, it cannot do both at the same time. The UHF links would use a simple UHF monopole antenna, similar to the antennas flown on MER, and mounted on the top of the hub and remote units. The hub could only communicate with one remote unit at a time. Figure 7 shows the hub and remote unit telecom block diagrams  The S-Band telemetry link has a margin of 7.0 dB for a telemetry rate of 120 kbps into a 34 m beam waveguide ground station. The data rate could be increased to reduce 14 playback time. The surface link would have a margin exceeding 20 dB for a return data rate of 256 kbps. This includes a multipath loss allotment of 20 dB. The margin would be large because the range would be so small and all of the links would be line of sight  Design Rationale  Where available, the design of this subsystem uses heritage hardware. The UHF microtransceiver is a radio that is under development for the Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, low 


Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, lowpower and low temperature operation. The S-band antenna would be a smaller, simpler version of the antenna that flew on Deep Impact. Other antenna options would be available The UHF antennas have been flown on previous Mars lander/rover missions. There would be other alternatives for the S-band antenna and the UHF transceiver on the hub could use a larger power amplifier to talk to an orbiting asset as a backup to the S-band radio  Risk  The highest risk items for telecom would be the single string design for each element and six year design lifetime. However, the S-band radio has flight heritage. The UHF radios would be a new design but do not require new technology. They would be an engineering development 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY Mass Equipment List Table 5 shows a summary of the mass and power for each of the subsystems for the remote instrument units. The mass of one remote unit without the specified instrument is 26.6 kg with contingency specified at the subsystem level based on heritage. Table 6 shows a summary of mass and power by subsystem for the hub. The mass of the hub with contingency is 44.9 kg. Table 7 shows a mass summary for the entire package with appropriate contingencies added per the JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles Design Principles. The package totals 218.2 kg which includes four remote units, five instruments, one hub, and the carrier container\(s Table 5. Mass and power summary for remote units Remote Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 2.0 kg 29% 2.5 kg 0 W Telecom UHF 0.2 24% 0.3 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour 3 W Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 20.6 kg 29% 26.6 kg Diplexer S-Band Downconverter STDN command data to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r S-Band Exciter 9 dBi S-Band LGA UHF Downconverter Small UHF transceiver command data to S/C CDS 


to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r UHF PA UHF Monopole Command data to C&amp;DH Command dat  to C&amp;DH  Figure 7  Telecom block diagram for the S-band \(top bottom  units would be located on the hub while the remote units only contain a UHF system 15 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS Daytime Operations During the day, the remote units and hub would be fully operational. The remote units would collect data from their instruments as specified by the science team and store it in the controller memory. Table 8 shows the data volume expected from each instrument. After 24 hours have passed the UHF telecom system on the hub is used to poll each of the remote units separately at the designated interval for the stored data. The hub then transmits the data direct-to-Earth using the S-band radio. This requires a maximum of eight hours at 50 kbps each day using the DSN 34 m antennas However, data rates as high as 120 kbps may be achieved reducing the downlink time. The hub has enough memory margin to accumulate data from all the instruments for three Earth days before it must downlink the data Nighttime Operations During nighttime operations, data collection at the remote units would be taking place. The magnetometer and seismometer collect data continuously. However, the seismometer operates at a reduced mode where the sampling rate is reduced to one-half of the daytime rate which has been deemed more than adequate by the science team. The remaining instruments collect data at various intervals that would be conducive to the science team  s current requirements. Telecom events would not be scheduled during the lunar night. The data accumulates in the controller memory over 16 Earth days \(~14 days at an equatorial location would be considered a worse case so two days have been added to be conservative data volume summary for each instrument during a 16 Earth day lunar night. When the sun comes up and the hub and remote units have sufficient power to run the telecom systems the hub polls each remote unit separately at a designated interval similar to operations during the day. The data would then be transmitted to Earth gradually over the next few days using the S-band radio Table 7. Mass summary for total package Unit Mass Contingency Mass + contingency 4 Remote Units 82.4 kg 29% 106.4 kg Hub 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg Instruments including cabling 17.3 kg 30% 22.5 kg Carrier Container\(s Total with heritage contingency 153.1 kg 29% 197.5 kg  System contingency  21.4 kg 14 Total Package  43% 218.9 kg Table 8. Instrument data volumes received at the hub over one Earth day in daylight operations Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub 


Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 236 Magnetometer 58 Heat Flow Probe 2 Seismic Sounder 700 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 6 Total 1002 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 80  Table 6. Mass and power summary for hub Hub/Base Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 13.4 kg 28% 17.2 kg 0 W Telecom UHF Telecom S-band 3.4 15% 3.9 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour W \(day Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg 2.38 W avg at night  16 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The ALGEP modular design builds upon lessons learned from Apollo era ALSEP package and technology advances since that time. ALGEP meets the requirements of long lifetime survival while maintaining continuous operation of its instruments during the lunar night which can last up to 16 days at equatorial regions on the Moon. The package would be powered using solar arrays and batteries alone not requiring nuclear sources to supply power or maintain thermal control. This concept is feasible due to its lowpower operational mode at night The modular design and packaging scheme provides flexibility in deployment across all regions of the Moon including the farside pending the availability of an orbital communications asset. The relatively light ALGEP package could be accommodated on astronaut activity support vehicles, providing a method to distribute the packages across the Moon, ultimately gaining a Moon-wide understanding of lunar geophysical properties ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the NASA Lunar Sortie Science Opportunities Program The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer 


or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1] NRC  Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon   Washington D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2007 2] Apollo 11 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-214, 1969 3] Apollo 12 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-235, 1970 4] Apollo 14 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-272, 1971 5] Apollo 15 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-289, 1972 6] Apollo 16 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-315, 1972 7] Apollo 17 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-330, 1973 8] ALSEP Termination Report, NASA RP-1036, 1979 9] NRC  New Frontiers in the Solar System: an Integrated Exploration Strategy  Decadal Survey D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2003 10] International Lunar Network Science Definition Team Final Report, 2009 BIOGRAPHY Melissa Jones is a member of the technical staff in the Planetary and Lunar Mission Concepts Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Current work includes development of small Lunar lander concepts and instrument packages to deploy on the Moon,  Report Manager for the Titan Saturn System Mission Outer Planets Flagship Mission study, and staffing various concept studies as a systems engineer on Team X, JPL  s mission design team.  Melissa graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry and a Ph.D. in Space and Planetary Science from the University of Arkansas  Linda Herrell has a BA in math/computer science/languages \(University of Texas fluids and heat transfer \(City College of New York addition to analytical work in computer science and thermal and structural analysis, she has worked as both a payload \(instrument Earth orbiting \(Hubble Space Telescope, Earth Observing System \(EOS Cassini as Proposal Manager for several NASA science missions She currently serves as the Program Architect for NASA's New Millennium Program    Table 9. Instrument data volumes generated at the hub after 16 Earth day lunar night Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 1980 Magnetometer 920 Heat Flow Probe 5 Seismic Sounder 0 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 72 Total 2977 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 40  17 Bruce Banerdt has been a research geophysicist at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1977, where he does research in planetary geophysics and instrument development for flight projects. He has been on science teams for numerous planetary missions 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


