Building Extraction from Aerial Imagery Based on the Principle of Confrontation and Priori Knowledge  Gang Xu Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering North China Electric Power University Beijing 102206, China E-mail: xugang@ncepu.edu.cn Liang Gao Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering North China Electric Power University Beijing 102206, China E-mail: gaorui0625@163.com Xue Yuan Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering North China Electric Power University Beijing 102206, China E-mail:  gyhyxx@126.com Abstract Automatic building extraction is a bottleneck of 
automatic surveying and mapping of big scale urban image For the single aerial gray-scale image, the automatic buildings extraction, an algorithm based on the principle of confrontation and using the priori knowledge of building is presented here. A two-dimension OTSU segmentation will be used to do the rough segmentation because of the characteristics of high-brightness which the roof of the building has; then we use mathematical morphology, image segmentation, edge detection and other measures to detect the non-building, so using the principle of confrontation and removing the non-buildings, the buildings can be extracted. At 
last the extraction result will be verified using the information of the building shadow, the area of building roof, altitude information and other prior knowledge, in order to improve the accuracy of building extraction in the aerial image Moreover, the method proposed is test in our experiment using the true-color aerial image. Theoretical analysis and experimental results show building can be extracted effectively by means of the algorithm proposed and it is necessary to research deeply Keywords building extraction; confrontation; prior knowledge I   I NTRODUCTION  
Building extraction from aerial images, mainly use grayscale information, spectral information, texture structure edge information and morphological information, but the useful height information and other prior knowledge is not made full use. Therefore, it is technically with a certain degree of difficulty and the accuracy is unsatisfied. So far, it is still in the exploratory stage of research. Some methods such as Zheltov[1 u s in g th e st ra ig h t lin e ex t r a c ti o n  S o h n  and Dowman ex t r a c t t h e  po l y g o n of  bu i l di n g b a s e d on  Fourier Transform and Binary Space Partitioning tree and combine with Building Unit Shape knowledge. Lin and Nevatia[3  d e riv e  th e an a l y tic g e o m etri c r e la ti o n sh i p  
between building margin line and building shadows according to general illumination model to analyze the relationship of different ground features. Methods mentioned above are based on edge detection or combine the region segmentation but these methods can not combine specific edge detection, edge linking algorithm with semantic analysis of the relationship among detected lines, surfaces and their contexts effectively. Baatz and Sc proposed a method combined multi-scale image segmentation and classification of decision tree, and using the spectrum, texture and context information to identify the target’s features, mainly in classification of high-resolution images which makes a lot of progresses 
Moreover, the current study is mainly concentrated in the extracting of building with square roof. It is not easy to extract building in the shape of round and polygonal. The algorithm we propose can extract all buildings and it is based on the theory of confrontation and priori knowledge to extract building is proposed here, and realized automatic building extraction II   T HE O VERVIEW  OF ALGORITHM  The main information we can use from the single grayscale image is gray and texture in the extraction of building How to effectively use the basic image information is a problem worthy of research. Based on the principles of 
confrontation and priori knowledge to extract buildings mainly uses the information of gray-scale and texture Although the building is a kind of regular man-made target there are ten thousands of different classes if they are classified by the styles and shapes. In practice, in a city model, building shapes of the vast majority were concentrated in a few type of representative. The different types of building are focus on the inconsistencies of their roof. Through the analysis of many cities image at home and abroad, according to the number of planes consisted of building roof ,we can divided the buildings into three categories, such as Planar single and double planar, fourplane type. However, because the materials and shapes of each building is different at the top, the gray and the texture 
of aerial images of building roof considerably varies At the same time, we found that although there are many different types of buildings roof and their gray and texture are different, the gray-scale and texture of non-building is relatively simple, such as vegetation, rivers and roads. In this paper, the structure of the algorithm is to extract these simple non-buildings from the original image on gray and texture, signing and then removing the non-building. At the same time, to improve the efficiency and accuracy of extraction, the extraction result is checked using the prior 
2009 Second International Conference on Computer and Electrical Engineering 978-0-7695-3925-6/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCEE.2009.176 363 
2009 Second International Conference on Computer and Electrical Engineering 978-0-7695-3925-6/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICCEE.2009.176 363 


     knowledge such as geometric characteristics of building space, projection information under sunshine, the area of building roof, altitude information The algorithm is described as follows   Figure 1.The algorithm structure III  T HE D ESCRIPTION OF ALGORITHM  After analysis, the aerial images mainly includes rivers roads, green belts, as well as some background ground, if they are extracted and removed from the original image The remaining part of image is our target. So we can avoid the complexity of the algorithm caused by the process of extraction of buildings directly. The steps in detail are as follows A  Image Pre-processing The noise or contrast of the original image may be low to improve the accuracy of building extraction, the preprocessing of original image is necessary. By the ways of denoising and image enhancement, the contrast of original image is improved; here we use the method of filtering and histogram equalization to deal with the original image. The gray and texture information are the most useful in extraction of buildings based on a single gray image B  Rough segmentation Considered the overall situation from the algorithm, the coarse segmentation of original image is required, so we can take advantage of more different image information contained in the image. At the same time the coarse segmentation algorithm can not be lost into the complex calculations, and the coarse se gmentation needs to mainly use the brightness information of the image, so the OTSU segmentation is a good choice. The OTSU segmentation algorithm is a non-supervisory adaptive threshold method based on image brightness of. Its calculation is relatively simple, the effect is relatively good, and so it has been widely used in many situations. All threshold segmentation based on the brightness, including OTSU segmentation, the basic principle adopted is: If gray-scale of pixel<T, the pixel is assigned to a class, otherwise it is assigned to another class. Obviously, the principle of the partition is noisesensitive. However, if it is influenced by noise, the segmentation results maybe have a large number of small areas which are meaningless. In this issue-driven, the improved two-threshold OTSU segmentation is used. It divided the original image into target area and background area roughly. Because of using the space-related pixels, it is improved the sensitivity to noise of the segmentation algorithm C  Image Edge Detection  The edge of an image is the basic elements to shape the image and it is the important manifestations of the image properties. In large-scale flight space images, the edge information of building roof plays an important part in building extraction. Therefore, the result of edge detection and extraction is one of the important factors which impact on the accuracy of building extraction in semi-automatic extraction of. The main edge detection algorithms are described as follows 1\Classical edge detection algorithm Classical edge detection operator is an examination of gray-scale changes in neighborhood for each pixel, and uses the first-order or second-order directional derivative changes near the edge to extract the edge. The first-order differential operators are Robert operator, Sobel operator, Gradient operator, Kirsch operator, Robinson operator, Prewitt operator and so on. The second-order differential operator is Laplacian operator and so on. The principle of first-order differential operator is: the first derivative of gray-scale step-like curve gets its extreme value near the edge. The principle of second-order differential operator is: the second derivative of gray-scale step-like curve is of zero-crossing point at the edge, the second derivative of gray-scale step 
364 
364 


     like curve get its minimum at the edge of building roof. The above operator is simple algorithm, but the ability of antinoise is poor because of dealing with the original image directly 2\The algorithm of detection after filtering Because the classical edge detection algorithm is vulnerable of noise, after the 80's, a number of scholars propose that first of all for the best smoothing to image, and then use the classical edge detection operator to determine the location of the edge. The LoG operator proposed by Marr and Hildreth is one of the operators of such a typical The main features are as follows 1  Using the Gaussian filter for filtering 2  Enhancing the image using the second derivative \(twodimensional Laplacian function 3  According to the second de rivative zero-crossing point and the corresponding larger peak of first derivative to detect the edge 4  Estimating the location of edge using the method of linear interpolation in the level of sub-pixel resolution 3\anny edge detection operator J. F. Canny proposed optimal criteria for edge detection good detection performance \(missed rate and error rate is small\e position of edge is accurate, and there is only one response at each edge point. Moreover, he proposed the best second-order edge detection operator which is canny edge detection operator After comparison, the canny edge detection operator can get a clear edge, the continuity is better, and it is easier to track and approximate the edge using broken line. Here, the canny edge detection operator is used to detect and extract the edge D  Extraction of non-building After edge detection, we get the edge of the building areas, roads or rivers, and other non-building area. Thus we need extract the non-building such as river, road and so on We can extract the river using the gray of water and the edge of river. There are many methods to extract the roads at present, such as the extraction method based on mathematical morphology , the extraction method based on region growing, the theory of using punctuation random process \(MPP, Marked Point Process\ . Because of large amount of calculation based on mathematical morphology and the computing speed is unsatisfied, the extraction method based on region growing is adopted to extract the road here. At the same time, the background and the tree can be removed easily using the information of gray in the image E  Information integration and verification After extracting the road and other non-building, all these information are merged and then use the principle of confrontation to remove the non-target of the building area so the buildings are extracted. However, some other nonbuilding maybe extract as building by mistake. Therefore, to improve the accuracy of building extraction, we use the prior knowledge to verify the result of extraction such as the information of the building shadow, the area of building roof, altitude information and so on. The priori knowledge is crucial for improving the correct identification rate, but in the learning machine, using the prior knowledge is proved to be difficult. The priori knowledge of buildings in the general sense is as follows 1  In a particular scale image, the small isolated region should be affirmed as non-building. Therefore, after the image segmentation, use mathematical morphology filter with the right parameter after image to remove these isolated points 2  Area authentication: In a particular scale image, the area of the building should have a reasonable scale. The region whose area is too big is not building certainly Therefore, after the partition of image, it is necessary to measure the area and verification for each connected region. Experiments prove that this can remove the pool or larger plaza around the building 3  Roundness authentication: Do the roundness measurement for the building area, experiments prove that this can remove road around the building 4  Projection authentication under the sunshine: This can remove the square whose gray is similar to that of building roof 5  Other verification is not limited to the above criterion any priori knowledge of tested building can be transformed into operational guidelines to verify our extraction result IV  E XPERIMENT AND ANALYSIS  We apply the method mentioned above to our experiment using the true-color aerial image. Figure.2 show the original rue-color aerial image while Figure.3 is the rough segmentation image got from the algorithm of improved two-threshold OSTU segmentation, of which the white parts are the buildings have been detected without showing other things like the usage of earth, such as courtyard, trees and road. Figure.4 shows the results of experiments after extracting the edge of image. Figure.5 shows the result of building extraction   Figure.2 Original aerial image 
365 
365 


      Figure.3 Rough segmentation image  Figure.4 Edge detection and extraction  Figure.5 The result of building extraction From the experiments we know that using the principle of confrontation and prior knowledge, by means of removing non-buildings, the building can be extracted effectively. Moreover, the accuracy of non-building recognition needs to be assuring. Meanwhile, we find that we still need to promote the accuracy when extracting buildings of the complicate aerial image V  C ONCLUSION  Building recognition and analysis of the aerial image are studied, a new method for recognizing building based on the principle of confrontation and prior knowledge is presented by means of removing non-building regions from original aerial image effectively, using prior knowledge of buildings to test and verify the buildings have been extracted so as to promote the accuracy and higher the speed. We also give a simple analysis of experiment result. Still in this paper, we have some problem unsolved such as: how to remove nonbuilding regions effectively and better and how to improve the efficiency of detection and extraction. Since we are confined to limited time and the preparation is inadequate We will continue to carry out a series of follow-up study to promote the accuracy of algorithm in the future VI  R EFERENCES  1  Zheltov S U, Sibiryakov A V, Bibitchev A E.Building Extraction at the State Research Institute o fAviation Systems \(GosNIIAS\ [A  I n  3rd International Workshop on Automatic Extraction of Man-Made Objects from Aerial and Space Images, A scona [C   B u lk em a Publishers, 2001: 65-74 2  Sohn G and Dowm an I J. Extraction of buildings from high resolution satellite data [A  I n B a li s a vi a s et a l   Ed s   A u t o m a t i c Extraction of Man-Made Objects from Aerial and Space Images \(III C  Z u ri ch 200 1 3  C. Lin and R. Nevatia, “Building Detection and Description from a Single Intensity Image”, Computer Vision and Image Understanding 72\(2\, 1998, pp.101-121 4  BaatzM and Schape A. Object-Oriented and Multi-Scale Image Analysis in Semantic Networks [A  I n Proc  of th e 2nd I n t e rn a t i o n a l  Symposium on Operationalization of Remote Sensing [C  A u g 19 99 Enschede, IT\(C 5  Baatz, and A. Schäpe, “Multiresolution segmentation – an optimization approach for high quality multi-scale image segmentation”,In Strobl, Blaschke & Greisebener \(Edts\: Angewandte Geographische Informationsverarbeitung XI. Beiträge zum AGITSymposium Salzburg 1999. Karlsruhe. Herbert Wichmann Verlag 2000 6  Liu Z.J, Wang J, and Liu W.P, Building extraction from high resolution imagery based on multi-scale object oriented classification and probabilistic Hough transform. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium,Vol.4,pp.2250-2253,July.2005 7  A. Strassopolou, T. Caelli and R. Ramirez, “Automatic extraction of building statistics from digital orthophotos”, International Journal of Geographical Information Science, 14\(8\, 2000, pp.795-814 8  C.S. Fraser, E. Baltsavias, A. Gruen, “Processing of Ikonos imagery for submetre 3D positioning and building extraction”, ISPRS Jornal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 56\(3\, 2002, pp. 177-194 9  D. S. Lee, J. Shan,, J. S. Bethel, “Class-Guided Building Extraction from Ikonos Imagery”, Photogrammetry Engineering and Remote Sensing, 69\(2\3, pp.143-150   J. Matas, C. Galambos, and J. Kittler, “Progressive Probabalistic Hough Transform”, Center For Machine Perception Czech Techincal University, 1998   J.B. Burns, A.R. Hanson, and E.M. Riseman, “Extracting Straight Lines”, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. PAMI-8, no. 4, 1986, pp.425-455   R. O. Duda, and P. E. Hart, “Use of the Hough Transform to detect curves and lines in pictures”. Communications of the Association for ComputingMachinery,15\(1\,1972,pp.11-15. Y. Cheng, ”Mean Shift mode seeking, and clustering”, IEEE Trans.Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, Vol. 17, No. 8, pp.790-799,1995   D. Comaniciu, and P. Meer, “Mean-Shift: A robust approach toward feature space analysis”, IEEE Transaction on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol.34, pp.1-18, 2002  
366 
366 


we have a 002lled to capacity variable-size slots in the adaptive TDMA scheme and partially 002lled 002xed-size slots in the static TDMA scheme Fig 2 shows the total number of frames received at the BS over time It is clear from this 002gure that the adaptive slot allocation scheme results in more frames transmitted to BS compared to the static slot allocation scheme This advantage comes from the adaptation of slot size to the data queue in each node and removing the excess time resulted from slots not being 002lled to their capacity at light loads as the case in static slot allocation In other words frames length will be adapted to the data queues and more frames can be transmitted over time Consequently network throughput is improved and the data waiting time at node buffers latency is reduced as frames become shorter and transmission cycles come more often Fig  2  Number of received frames at the BS over time Fig.3 indicates how the number of frame received at BS per one round can be varied with the data queue generated at the sensor node As shown more frames are transmitted to BS in adaptive slot allocation as data size becomes shorter while the number of transmitted frames remains almost constant in the static slot allocation Fig 4 shows that with the adaptive slot allocation channel bandwidth will be used more ef\002ciently The result shown indicates that more than 90 of the bandwidth is utilized at high and medium loads This result is expected as the adaptive slot allocation eliminates the channel idle times resulted from slots not being 002lled to their capacity However at a very light loads below 10 TDMA schedules are required to be sent more often due to frames become very short resulting in more bandwidth waste Limiting the slot size to a lower bound may mitigate this problem Despite the energy dissipated due to the extra traf\002c required for sending TDMA schedules the adaptive slot allocation scheme saves more energy by eliminating the time the nodes remain active without data to transmit and also by eliminating channel idle listening Fig 5 shows the percentage of wasted energy to the overall energy dissipation in both schemes Results indicate that energy saved by eliminating idle time is more than that wasted by sending more TDMA schedules Hence the sensor network sends more frame to the base station before the last node has its battery drained as Fig  3  Number of received frames vs data size Fig  4  Bandwidth utilization vs data size shown in 002g 6 Fig 7 indicates how the percentage of wasted energy to the overall energy dissipation varies as traf\002c loads and network dimensions change It is obvious that for load of 0  4  less than 5 still can be achieved when the network diameter increases to 200 meters Fig  5  Percent of wasted energy to overall energy dissipation 5 CONCLUSION This work proposes a new TDMA scheme where time slots adapt dynamically to the size of the data generated at sensor nodes The main goal of this scheme is to reduce the time the nodes unnecessarily remain active with no data to transmit or receive Our work is compared to the classical static slot TDMA scheme and the results obtained indicate that this 
 


Fig  6  Number of nodes alive over number of transmitted frames Fig  7  Percent of wasted energy as a function of data size and network diameter approach outperforms the static slot size TDMA scheme especially when there is a high traf\002c 003uctuations and a big variance in the sensor data length 6 REFERENCES  W endi B Heinzelman Anantha P  Chandrakasan and Hari Balakrishnan 223An Application speci\002c Protocol Architecture for Wireless Microsensor Networks,\224 in IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications  October 2002 vol 1 pp 660\226669  Ossama Y ounis and Sonia F ahmy  223Distrib uted Clustering in Ad-hoc Sensor Networks A Hybrid energyef\002cient Approach,\224 vol 1 March 2004  K urtis Kredo II and Prasant Mohapatra 223Medium Access Control in Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 Technical report computer science department University of California Davis  pp 1\22657 June 2006  T ao Zheng Sridhar Radhakrishnan and V enkatesh Sarangan 223PMAC An Adaptive Energy-Ef\002cient MAC Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 IPDPS'05  pp 65\22672 month   2005  Xinguo W ang Xinming Zhang Guoliang Chen and Shuang Tian 223An Adaptive and Distributed Clustering Scheme for Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 in ICCIT'07  Nov 2007 pp 522\226527  T omasso Melodia Dario Pompili and Ian F  Ak yildiz 223On the Interdependence of Distributed Topology Control and Geographical Routing in Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks,\224 IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications  vol 23 no 3 pp 520\226532 Mar 2005  Bolian Y in Hongchi Shi and Y i Shang 223 Analysis of Energy Consumption in Clustered Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 in 2nd International symposium on Wireless Pervasive Computing  Feb 2007 pp 77\22682  Adel Y oussef Mohamed Y ounis Moustaf a Y oussef and Ashok Agrawala 223Distributed Formation of Overlapping Multi-hop Clusters in Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 in IEEE GLOBECOM'2006  2007 p p 4151616  Zahmati A.S Moghadam N.M and Abolhassani B 223EPMPLCS An Ef\002cient Power Management Protocol with Limited Cluster Size for Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 in ICDCSW 07  June 2007  Jin Ding Krishna Si v aling am Ragha v a Kash yapa and Lu Jian Chuan 223A Multi-Layered Architecture and protocols for Large-Scale Wireless sensor Networks,\224 IEEE Trans on Broadcasting  pp 1443\2261447 2003  Jalil Jabari Lotf Mehdi Nozad Bonab and Sia v ash Khorsandi 223A Novel Cluster-based Roting Protocol with Extending Lifetime for Wireless Sensor Networks,\224 WOCN  pp 1\2265 May 2008  Sinem Coleri Er gen and P arvin V araiya 223PED AMA CS Power Ef\002cient and Delay Aware Medium Access Protocol for Sensor Networks,\224 IEEE Transaction on Mobile Computing  vol 5 no 7 July 2006  G Halk es and K Langendoen 223Crankshaft An Energy-ef\002cient MAC-protocol for dense wireless sensor networks,\224 in 4th European conference on Wireless Senesor Networks EWSN'07 Delft The Netherlands  Jan 2007  Y  E Sagduyu and A Ephremides 223The Problem of Midium Access Control in Wireless Sensor networks,\224 in IEEE Wireless Communications  2004 vol 11 pp 44\22653  W  Y e J Heidemann and D Estrin 223Medium Access control with coordinated Adaptive Sleeping for Wireless sensor Networks,\224 in IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking  June 2004 vol 12 pp 493\226506  T  Rappaport Wireless Communications Principles and Practice  Prentice-Hall NJ 2nd Edition 2002 
 


   7  Figure 4. Application of COTS GetFeasibility Operation COTS GetFeasibility operation can support data providers that have implemented SPSs and those that have not User DP#4 Not selected - Other DPs have nearer-term access DP#2 Not selected - Insufficient ground resolution DP#5 SPS Enabled Not selected - Cannot schedule until out-days Formulate Collection Task Determine Feasibility DP#7 SPS Enabled Selected Discover Sensors Formulate Collection Task Submit Task DP#10 No SPS Selected Submit Order DP#12 No SPS Selected - Within acquisition times that force desired acquisition Scheduling: Final selection and tasking / order is through services of individual DPs Submit Order COTS SPS Planning: One-stop-shopping for creating list of candidate spacecraft / sensors Discover Sensors Formulate Collection Task Determine Feasibility Standard Object Catalog  
 


   8 Satellite Took Kit Plug-In Standard Object Catalog STK Objects Object Build PoC SPS SOC Web Site XML Docs Browser Search Results Comments Internet User Generate XML Document Spacecraft Staging Database Spacecraft Database Record to XML Document Translator Manually Populate Staging Database Data Team Populate XML Document Submit for Approval Review Feedback Reconcile User Data Team Manually Populate XML Document Spacecraft Schema Spacecraft XML Template Data Team Figure 5. Population of and Acce ss to Standard Object Catalog The SOC is a community driven library of spacecraft with accurate and thorough descriptions of mission capabilities 
 


   9 The imaging payload field of view and field of regard are used by the mission modeling capabilities to determine feature of interest access and coverage metrics 5  COTS  SPS  P ROTOTYPING  Figure 6 is an overview of the prototype work flow functionality needed for a COTS implementation of the GetCapabilities, DescribeTasking, and GetFeasibility operations of an SPS Data exchanges between a User and an SPS are specified by a schema.  The prototype em ploys Spacecraft Capabilities Tasking Definition, and Acquisition Feasibility schema They are not intended to be one-off versions of the GetCapabilities, DescribeTasking, and GetFeasibility schema.  They are sparse schemas that support the design of the data exchanges needed for employing AGI mission modeling capabilities The sparse schema is used for the first prototyping steps The schema will be brought in to compliance with the SPS Implementation Specification in the final steps of prototyping SpacecraftCapabilities The Spacecraft Capabilities Reque st schema, illustrated in Figure 6, consists of Country and Payload Type elements These are the elements define d in the spacecraft schema\222s Spacecraft Classification and Pa yload Operations elements If the User does not specify a country, the search will include all countries.  The Payload Type can be Optical Imager or Radar Imager.  If a Payload Type is not specified the search will include both imagers The User populates the Spacecraft Capabilities Request XML document and sends it to the PoC-SPS where it is received and parsed.  The PoC-SPS searches and retrieves Spacecraft Classification and Pa yload Operation data from the SOC, populates the Sp acecraft Capabilities Response XML document, and sends it to the User AcquisitionFeasibility The User receives and pars es the Spacecraft Capabilities Response XML document and selects the applicable spacecraft and imaging payloads.  The User populates the Acquisition Feasibility Request XML document and sends it to the PoC-SPS where it is received and parsed The Acquisition Feasibility Request schema, illustrated in Figure 6, contains Spacecraft Pa yload Pairing, Feature of Interest, and Acquisition Constraints The request also includes the radar scan mode from Radar Payload Operation element if th e imager is a Radar Imager A Feature of Interest is defined by a ground point A full set of acquisition constraints includes geometric temporal, environmental, and quality. Examples of acquisition constraints for an Op tical Imager are: geometric slant range elevation angle range, temporal - time of day interval, environmental - solar elevation angle range, and quality - ground sample resolution range The PoC-SPS does not incorporate ground sample resolution since it requires knowledge of the detector configuration.  For example, an optical detector would require, at a minimum, detector focal length and pixel width.  However, a User can select an imaging payload based on its ground sample resolution provided in the Spacecraft Capabilities Response XML document The PoC-SPS receives and processes the Acquisition Feasibility Request.  The spacecraft payload pairing is used to retrieve the payload field of regard from the SOC and the spacecraft orbital elements from CelesTrak, the authoritative source of NORAD or bital elements.  Then the AGI Components are activated to determine the Acquisition Feasibility Response The payload field of regard is used instead of the field of view because it corresponds to the in-track and cross-track range that the payload could be pointed The Acquisition Feasibility Response sequence contains a number of acquisition interval start and stop times and corresponding acquis ition geometry The PoC-SPS populates the AcquisitionFeasibilityResponse XML document and provides it to the User The User can request Acquisition Feasibility Responses from a number of potential DPs and select the DP that best satisfies the User needs 6  F IRE S AT S YS ML   AGI  C OMPONENTS I NTERFACE P ROTOTYPING  The interaction between the SPS operations and AGI Components is the basis of the interaction between a FireSat SysML model and AGI Components SysML is a domain-specific modeling language for systems engineering.  SysML is an extension of a subset of Unified Modeling Language \(UML\L is used to specify visualize, construct, and document the artifacts of an objectoriented software-intensi ve system.  SysML can accommodate the integration of an engineering model\222s inputs and outputs within the SysML component 
 


   10 Data Exchange Specified by Schema  OGC specifies a XML data exchange But data exchanges could be APIs  Spacecraft Capabilities Request  Country Imaging Payload Type - Optical, Radar Spacecraft Capabilities Response  Spacecraft Names and Descriptions Payload Names and Capabilities Acquisition Feasibility Request  Feature of Interest and Acquisition Constraints Spacecraft Payload Pairing Acquisition Feasibility Response  Access Intervals  PoC SPS   Orbits  Standard Object Catalog  AGI Components  Catalog Interface  Components Interface  User  Discover Sensors Formulate Collection Task Determine Feasibility  Data Exchange  Spacecraft Capabilities Request Response Acquisition Feasibility Request Response Figure 6. Work Flow Functionality Proof of Concept Prototype for a COTS SPS Sparse schemas are initially used to establish concepts for data exchange and interaction 
 


   11 The SysML model is of a hypothetical FireSat system - a space-based system for det ecting, identifying, and monitoring forest fires.   It is derived from the description in Space Mission Analysis and Design Third Edition, by Wiley J. Larson and James R. Wertz \(editors modeling is an International Council of Systems Engineering \(INCOSE\odel Based System Engineering MBSE\ilot project One of the goals of the FireSat MBSE pilot project is to develop an interface between the FireSat SysML model and STK/AGI Components The FireSat system consists of users, mission satellites communications satellites, and ground stations.  The SysML model is used to carryout trade studies of system design performance, and cost   The FireSat SysML model is created with MagicDraw 256  from No Magic and uses ParaMagic\231 from InterCAX to carry out trade studies.  Para Magic integrates Microsoft Excel, MATLAB 256 Simulink 256 and Mathematica into MagicDraw SysML models.  InterCAX is prototyping the SysML interface with AGI Components Figure 7 is an overview of how a FireSat SysML model could interact with AGI Components to carry out trade studies on FireSat system elements There are two types of interactions.  The first is a setup of the scenario elements cache c ontaining candidate spacecraft imaging payloads, relays, and ground stations.  These candidate elements are populated from the FireSat system elements pool.  This pool contains all of the FireSat elements and variations under consideration. The second interaction is a series of elements selections, accessibility queries, and coverage queries The accessibility and coverage data returned by AGI Components are used to assess FireSat measures of effectiveness.  Examples ar e area covered, revisit time memory margin, and power margin The accessibility and coverage data are also used to assess FireSat resource usage strategies, e.g 
200  Communication link availability for command uplink telemetry downlink, and image downlink 200  Memory used for image storage versus memory freed up by downlink during and after imaging 200  Power used for image collection and downlink versus power replenished during sunbathing and normal operations The current prototyping of the interaction between the FireSat SysML model and AGI Components is confined to the data exchange interface of Figure 8 200  Scenario Elements Initialization 200  Accessibility Chain Request and Response 200  Feature Coverage Request and Response The spacecraft orbit is modeled w ith the standard set of six orbital elements.  The imaging payload is modeled with rectangular or conic field of view half angles and a direction of pointing in the spacecraft re ference frame.  The field of view is modeled, instead of the field of regard, since it represents the extent of the coverage capability at any instance of time. The field of regard represents the potential coverage Accessibility chains are used to determine time intervals of accessibility through a string of serially linked scenario elements As an example, take a chain consisting of a feature of interest, a mission spacecraft, a relay spacecraft, and a ground station.  The chain capability determines the intervals of time that the missi on spacecraft is in view of the feature of interest and the rela y and, at the same time, the relay is in view of the ground station.  In view means that the lines of sights between th e elements satisfy viewing constraints A feature of interest, an imaging payload on a mission spacecraft, a relay spacecraft, and a ground station chain is more restrictive since line of si ght to the feature of interest must be within the imaging payload field of view. The satellite can image the feature of interest and downlink the image through the relay satellite during these intervals of time The feature of interest can be a point or an area.  An area is defined by a set of latitude, longitude, and altitude vertices connected by straight lines.  The AGI Components coverage capability fills in the area with grid points with a user defined spacing The user also selects among the following figure of merits for area coverage 200  Area covered, i.e. square kilometers 200  Percent of area covered 200  Area covered in each time interval 200  Minimum, maximum, and average response times 200  Minimum, maximum, and average revisit times 
 


   12 The response time is a measure of the time between a request for coverage of an area grid point and the time at which coverage is achieved The revisit time is a measure of the intervals during which coverage of a grid point is not provided, also known as coverage gaps 7  C URRENT S TATUS AND F UTURE P LANS  The SOC is currently populated with Earth observation navigation, communications and technology development spacecraft as well as ground facilities that support spacecraft launch and operations The SOC contains 59 Earth observation satellites from 20 countries.  There are 44 optical imaging satellites with a total of 116 operating modes, and 15 radar imaging satellites with a total of 66 operating modes.  An optical operating mode is a combination of sensor, spectrum projected field of view, and ground resolution.  Examples of radar operation modes are spotlight, stripmap, and scanSAR The schema has been defined for the User - PoC-SPS data exchange of Figure 6 and the Discover Sensors capability has been prototyped as A pplication Programming Interface API\e next step is to prototype all the capabilities as both as API and XML document interfaces Then, the XML document inte rface will be brought into compliance with the SPS Impl ementation Specification The prototyping of FireSat SysML and AGI Components interaction is taking place in geographically separated facilities: AGI in Exton, Pennsylvania and InterCAX in Atlanta, Georgia.  XML documents were exchanged by email during the initial prototyping.  Current prototyping incorporates program-to-program automatic exchange of XML documents, with all the prototyping at InterCAX Future prototyping will include an API passing of data The InterCAX approach to the design and implementation of FireSat SysML model and AGI Components interaction is addressed in reference 2 Figure 7. Trade Study Interaction of a FireSat SysML Model and AGI Components The FireSat SysML model intera cts with AGI Components to carryout trade studies of system design, performance, and cost Measures of Effectiveness Power Margin Revisit Time Area Covered Memory Margin Candidate FireSat SysML Model Prototype  Elements Selection Accessibility Coverage Queries Elements Setup Data Analysis Memory Usage Comm Usage Coverage Roll-Up Power Usage FireSat System Elements Pool Candidate Interface to AGI Components  Scenario Elements Cache AGI Components Cache Interface Components Interface 
 


   13  Data Exchange Specified by Schema  Data exchanges could be XML documents or APIs   Scenario Elements Initialization  Spacecrafts: Names & Orbits      - Imaging Payloads: Names & Patterns Feature of Interests: Names, Types, Boundaries & Viewing Constraints Geostationary Relay Satellites: Names and Longitudes Ground Stations: Names & Locations Scenario Start & Stop Times Feature Coverage Request  Feature of Interest Name Spacecraft & Payload Names Figure of Merit Request Feature Coverage Response  Coverage by Area and by Percent Min, Max & Average Response Time Min, Max & Average Revisit Time Coverage by Time Interval Accessibility Chain Request  Scenario Elements Accessibility Chain Response  Accessibility Interval Start & Stop Times  SysML Model Interface Prototype  Setup System Elements Determine Accessibility Determine Feature Coverage  Interface Prototype to AGI Components   Scenario Elements Cache  AGI Components  Cache Interface  Components Interface  Data Exchange  Scenario Elements Accessibility Request / Response Feature Coverage Request / Response Figure 8. Prototype Data Exchange Between FireSat SysML Model and AGI Components The data exchange will be enhanced to meet user needs 
 


   14 The schema has been defined for the FireSat SysML and AGI Components interaction of Figure 8.  The Setup System Elements and Determine Feature Coverage capabilities have been prototyped.  The next step is to prototype all the capabilities as both API and XML document interfaces 8  C ONCLUSIONS  An SPS providing a COTS GetFeasibility operation will make it easier for Users to discover sensors that fulfill their needs.  A COTS common inte rface will provide the User with one well-known set of operations for the initial discovery of candidate sensors A final selection of sensors can be carried out using the SPS operations of the individual DPs Additionally, an SPS server c ontaining a catalog of sensors can be created to provide the Users with one-stop-shopping for the initial discovery of candidate sensors The operations being developed now are for optical and radar sensors, but are extensible to Earth observation scientific sensors The design and implementation of the Magic Draw and ParaMagic FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components will be refined a nd then extended to other SysML tools The FireSat SysML model interaction with AGI Components proof of concept is also intended to provide the blueprint for the design and implementation of other types of SysML modeling of space based missions R EFERENCES   Docum e nt 07-014r3 at  http://www.opengeospatial.org   M a nas B a jaj, \223SLIM A C o l l a borat i v e, M odel B a sed Systems Engineering Work space for Next-Generation Complex System\224, 2011 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings, March 5-12, 2011 B IOGRAPHY  Dave Kaslow is Director, Product Data Management at Analytical Graphics, Inc.  He has thirty-seven years of experience in both the technical and management aspects of developing ground mi ssion capabilities He is also the editor of Spacecraft Digest www.stk.com/scdigest which tracks current and future spacecraft and spacecraft missions He is co-author of \223Defining and Developing the Mission Operations System\224, \223Activity Planning\224, \223FireSat\224 and 223Spacecraft Failures and Anomalies\224 in Cost-Effective Space Mission Operations He is also the author and co-author of papers for the International Council on Systems Engineering \(INCOSE Annual International Symposiums and for the IEEE Aerospace Conference A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The author gratefully acknowledges the prototyping support of colleague Sam Gilbert  
 


Eds Amsterdam: North Holland, 1997 19]  Kiger, J.I. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in the Design of Menu-Driven Interfaces," International Journal of Man-Machine Studies \(20 20]   Miller, D.P. "The Depth/Breadth Tradeoff in Hierarchical Computer Menus," Human Factors Society 1981, pp. 296-300 21]  Newman, W. M. and Lamming, M. G., Interactive system design, Cambridge, MA, Addison-Wesley, 1995 22]  Nielsen, J. "Usability Engineering at a Discount International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction Elsevier Science, Boston, 1989, pp. 394-401 23]  Nielsen, J. Usability Engineering, Acad. Press, 1993  24]  Nielsen, J., ?Heuristic evaluation,? in J. Nielsen and R. Mack \(eds Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994  25]  Nielsen, J., ?Usability metrics:  Tracking interface improvements,? IEEE Software, Nov 1996, pp. 12-13 26]  Nielsen J www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html, 2002 27]  Nielsen, J. and Mack, R., Usability inspection methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., 1994 28]  Niemela, M., and Saariluoma, P. "Layout Attributes and Recall," Behaviour &amp; Information Technology \(22:5 2003, pp 353-363 29]  Norman, K.L. The Psychology of Menu Selection Ablex Publishing Corporation, Norwood, NJ, 1991 30]  Norman, K.L., and Chin, J. "The Effect of Tree Structures on Search in a Hierarchical Menu Selection System," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(7 51-65 31]  Perlman, G. http://edgarmatias.com/faq/G/G-1.html 2000 32]  Reiterer, H.,  Oppermann, R. Evaluation of User Interfaces: EVADIS II -- A Comprehensive Evaluation Approach. In Behaviour and Information Technology, 12 3 33]  Schenkman, B.N., and Jonsson, F.U. "Aesthetics and Preferences of Web Pages," Behavior &amp; Information Technology \(19:5 34]  Shackel, B., ?Usability ? context, framework definition, design and evaluation,? in Human Factors for Informatics Usability, edited by Shackel, B. and Richardson, S. J., Cambridge:  Cambridge University Press 1991, pp. 21-38 35]  Shneiderman, B., "Designing trust into online experiences,? Communications of the ACM, December 2000, pp. 57- 59  36]  Shneiderman, Ben, Designing the User Interface Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction Reading, Mass., Addison-Wesley, 1986, 1987c 37]  Somberg, B.L. "A Comparison of Rule-Based and Positionally Constant Arrangements of Computer Menu Items," CHI and GI 1987, ACM, New York, New York 1987, pp. 255-260 38]  Vredenburg, K., et. al "A Survey of User-Centered Design Practice," SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACM, Minneapolis, Minnesota 2002, pp. 471-478 39]  Weiss, E., and Nielsen, J. "Heuristic evaluation, a system checklist, usability analysis &amp; design," Xerox Corporation 40]  Wharton, C., et. al,  ?The cognitive walkthrough method:  A practitioner?s guide,? in Nielsen, J., Mack, R Usability Inspection Methods, John Wiley &amp; Sons, 1994 41]  Whitefield, A., Wilson, F., and Dowell, J. "A Framewokr for Human Factors Evaluation," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(10:1 


42] Yu, B.-M., and Roh, S.-Z. "The Effects of Menu Design on Information-Seeking Performance and User's Attitude on the World Wide Web," Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology \(53:11 2002, pp 923-933 43]Zaphiris, P., and Mtei, L. "Depth vs. Breadth in the Arrangement of Web Links," 1997, p. Available online http://otal.umd.edu/SHORE/bs04 44]  Zaphiris, P., Shneiderman, B., and Norman, K.L Expandable Indexes vs. Sequential Menus for Searching Heirarchies on the World Wide Web," Behavior &amp Information Technology \(21:3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


and Improving IT Governance through the Balanced Scorecard", Information Systems Control Journal, 2 70] Van Grembergen, W., De Haes, S., and Guldentops E., "Structures, Processes and Relational Mechanisms for IT Governance" in: Van Grembergen, W. \(Ed for Information Technology Governance,  Idea Group Publishing, 2004, 1-37 71] Wagner, H.-T., A resource-based perspective on IT business alignment and firm performance - Theoretical foundation and empirical evidence, ibidem, Stuttgart, Germany, 2007 72] Wagner, H.-T. and Weitzel, T., "IT Business Alignment as Governance Tool for Firm-Internal Relationship Quality: A Longitudinal Case Study",  41th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 Island, Hawaii, 2008 73] Webb, P., Pollard, C., and Ridley, G., "Attempting to Define IT Governance: Wisdom or Folly?",  39th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Kauai, Hawaii, 2006 74] Zahra, S.A. and George, G., "The Net-Enabled Business Innovation Cycle and the Evolution of Dynamic Capabilities", Information Systems Research, 13\(2 147-150 75] Zmud, R.W., "Building relationships throughout the corporate entity" in: Elam, J., Ginzberg, M., Keen, P., and Zmud, R.W. \(Eds mission, the framework, the transition,  1988, Washington 1988, 55-82   Appendix  Table 5. Used indicators All items have been evaluated by using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from ?strongly agree? to  strongly disagree ID Item References Executive support \(ES ES1 The IT unit is sufficiently represented in our bank  s executive board. [18 ES2 Top management actively supports interplay between business and IT Strategic Alignment \(SA SA1 I am familiar with the IT strategy. [55 SA2 The IT strategy is accurately aligned with the business strategy. [22, 54, 55, 63 SA3 The IT strategy is documented. [17, 54 Governance Mechanisms \(GM GM1 There are explicit incentives rewarding good interaction with the IT unit. [51 GM2 The back office is proactively involved into IT planning. [17, 26, 55 GM3 There is a specific organizational unit or function to improve the communication be-tween  the IT and the back office 17, 26 Operational Alignment \(OA OA1 There is mutual trust and respect between IT unit and the back office. [13, 46, 64 OA2 IT and the back office regularly consult each other. [13, 17, 19 OA3 There are meetings on a regular basis between IT and back office for identifying business process improvements 17, 26, 55  OA4 There is extensive communication between IT unit and back office. [15, 17, 26 OA5 IT employees are able to interpret business related problems and develop solutions. [13, 60  64 Process Performance \(PP PP1 The configuration of our credit process allows us to sustain a competitive advantage in the  relevant market 36 PP2 The configuration of our credit process allows us to differentiate us from the competi-tors  in the relevant market 36, 42 PP3 Compared to our competitors, the operational efficiency of our loans process is higher. [23  27 PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  


PP4 Compared to our competitors, the design of our business loans process is ? \(much better 1  5 much worse 71 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





