html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap   Vulnerability Black Markets Empirical Evidence and Scenario Simulation  Jaziar Radianti University of Agder Serviceboks 509 4898 Grimstad-Norway jaziar.radianti@uia.no  Eliot Rich School of Business University at Albany State University of New York e.rich@albany.edu Jose. J. Gonzalez University of Agder Serviceboks 509 4898 Grimstad-Norway jose.j.gonzalez@uia.no   Abstract This paper discusses the manifest characteristics of online Vulnerability Black Markets \(VBM actors, interactions and mechanisms, obtained from masked observation. Because VBM transactions are hidden from general view, we trace their precursors as secondary evidence of their development and activity More general attributes of VBMs and the exploits they discuss are identified. Finally, we introduce a simulation model that captures how vulnerability discoveries may be placed in a dual legal-black market context. We perform simulations and find that if legal markets expose vulnerabilities that go unresolved, the security and quality of software may suffer more than in the absence of a legal market. Thus the problem scope expands beyond vulnerability trading to one that requires active participation and reaction by software vendors Key words: black markets, masked observation, system dynamics, software vulnerability, simulation   1. Introduction  Software vulnerabilities are one major root of today?s computer security problems [1]. These vulnerabilities are accessible by skilled and novice infiltrators enabled by rootkits, scripting tools and other easily disseminated tools. Exploitation of security holes for commercial gain or sabotage creates the opportunity for black markets \(BMs vulnerabilities are solicited and traded The vulnerabilities and exploits circulated in the underground are already subject to public discussion and prominent in several well-known security companies reports, for example X-Force Report from IBM [2 PandaLabs [3], Symantec [4] and Finjan [5 The term ?Black Market? originally appeared in the economic literature during the Second World War, when rationing in the United States was coupled with price ceilings for many major consumer commodities [6]. BMs are ?black? as they support illegal activities occurring under conditions of great secrecy [6, p. 2]. More recently the term Vulnerability Black Market \(VBM describe illicit trading of software vulnerability information over the Internet In previous work [7], we have used system 


In previous work [7], we have used system dynamics \(SD simulate consequences of a VBM for software vulnerabilities. The nature of the VBMs is elusive and good data is scarce. An open observation of VBMs is hardly possible. Hence, we performed a masked observation of online VBM forum activities, which we describe below The purpose of this paper is to provide some eyeopening information and discuss the VBMs issue in connection with software security problems. We target several objectives: first, to assess the empirical evidence for VBMs; second, to derive more general attributes of the black market for vulnerabilities and exploits from our observations; third, using a concept model to qualitatively assess if a vulnerability legal market would improve vulnerability disclosure. We organize the paper into six sections: Introduction, Theory of Vulnerability Black Markets, Data: Method, Source and Procedures, Results Concept Model, and Conclusion  2. Theory of Vulnerability Black Markets  Literature related to the trading of software vulnerabilities is very limited, but may be categorized into three types. First, there are theoretical works on the economics of information security. Authors assume that black markets for vulnerabilities exist and focus on the mechanisms needed for a parallel legal market, such as pricing and market failures. Second, additional theoretical works on vulnerability market models have been derived from expert observation and experience. Third, recent literature infers the existence of VBM behaviors based on empirical examination of such markets. These works Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE  attempt to capture and explicate the nature, mechanism and actors, and ultimately, estimate the security threat presented by VBMs Ozment?s [8] and B  hme?s [9] works are examples of the first type. Ozment proposes an auction model for vulnerability markets and assumes that VBMs exist and may offer great rewards to hackers. In his view, the use of direct rewards for vulnerabilities will open the door for arbitrage. He discusses the use of a Dutch auction model where sellers expose their goods for sale with an initial offering price that can only be lowered, ensuring that vulnerabilities are reported immediately. A downside of such a market structure is the possible attack on bidders or their agents Ozment \(ibid is particularly troubling. Resale occurs when in-house or outsourced software testers sell vulnerability reports to third-party or malicious hackers. This is a special type of double-dipping peculiar to information-based commodities, as the testers have the opportunity to expose manifest problems to hackers before developers can patch them. Buyers of these vulnerabilities would then acquire a short-lived commodity, reducing their confidence in the process for future transactions. Ozment concludes that there are few solutions to this dilemma; but he is optimistic that having auctions for vulnerabilities would reduce the incentives for resale B  hme [9] also advocates the development of an auction strategy, where ?an adversary would have an incentive to report the bug instead of exploiting it or selling it on the black market.? These works offer some insight into the use of formal vulnerability markets to improve software quality Miller?s [10], and Sutton and Nagle?s [11] works 


Miller?s [10], and Sutton and Nagle?s [11] works belong to the second type, as they are grounded in observation rather than theory alone. Miller, for example notes that BMs for computer exploits provide alternatives for security researchers to sell vulnerability information. Claims about spammers and criminals accessibility to zero-day exploits as well as speculation about the VBM price are based on several internet sources Sutton and Nagle [11] present another picture of economic models for underground vulnerabilities focusing on their revenue stream. They propose two constructs, the contracted model and the purchase model to explain underground operations. In the contracted model, a malicious actor hires a hacker to find vulnerabilities in specific software targets. The vulnerability, if part of widely deployed tools, could be used to ?power spam,? attach spyware or insert adware. If the contract was targeted at a firm, illegal revenues could come from espionage or blackmail. The authors called this phenomenon a ?hacker-for-hire? industry. They point out the possible contacts between vulnerability sellers and buyers through underground websites and Internet Relay Chat \(IRC even post the vulnerabilities for which they are looking allowing hackers to review and decide whether they want to take the job. The authors support this argument by pointing out a web-hack site, allegedly a site for underground activities The purchase model reverses the contracted model Here, the hacker finds a vulnerability, creates an exploit and sells it to the malicious actors. The authors emphasize that all parties have to broker the deal, involving some potentially risky contracts, while making sure that they are not caught by law enforcement. Naraine [12, 13] reports on a purchase model transaction, where the Microsoft Windows WMF vulnerability was discovered and sold on the underground market to malicious actors Security companies have created their own vulnerability marketplaces. An example is the Zero Day Initiative \(ZDI  program proposes to pay researchers for data on vulnerabilities, acting as a broker between market actors The company promotes responsible disclosure by working closely with affected vendors to get patches to market quickly. This approach also counters concerns that security researchers are not properly compensated and are driven to the dark side [15]. Researchers may prefer not to deal directly with vendors, and a brokered market can prevent resale of vulnerability information to malicious agents [16]. The opportunity for a trusted market decreases the chance that vulnerability research will be marginalized and moved further underground. This, in turn, would create longer windows of consumer exposure to potential threats In recent years, other researchers have found empirical evidence of vulnerability markets to complement the theoretical research. We found several Internet black market-related studies, notably Franklin et al. [17] and Zhuge [18]. The former relies on IRC networks to collect market data. The latter uses automated browser technique on the visible web to identify websites with malicious contents. These works take a broader and more systematic approach towards establishing an empirical base for VBM observation Franklin et al. [17] study underground activities using a dataset collected over 7 months and comprising 13 million messages over IRC channels. In their work, they record illicit market discussions and solicitations. This dataset categorizes the participants, exploits and the good and service offered. Franklin et al.?s study focuses on 


and service offered. Franklin et al.?s study focuses on sensitive data trading, such as secret information related to credit cards. The study included no discussion of tools malware or other vulnerability exploits Captivatingly, Franklin et al. [17] propose direct interference with these channels as a countermeasure to interrupt BMs. Traditional law enforcement approaches Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2  are costly and the legal infrastructure surrounding software vulnerabilities is poorly developed. Sites often disappear and re-emerge under a stronger hosting infrastructure. This study proposes two techniques to turn the anonymity of the Internet back on the black hat community. The first is the use of a sybil attack, creating multiple identities, destabilizing participant verification and creating a ?market for lemons? [19] among buyer and seller. The second counter-measure they discuss is a slander attack, to blacken the reputation of other participants through false defamation. Both aim at creating distrust environment among participants and reducing the opportunity for successful transaction. The hoped-for outcome is the exit of participants from the IRC channel and the vulnerability markets Zhuge et. al [18] evaluate about 145,000 of the most commonly visited websites on the Chinese web and found that 2,149 contained malicious content. They also perform redirection link analysis which can disclose the relationship between malicious websites and the hosts of web-based exploits. Their study provides additional information about the parallel structure of the dual nature of visible and underground aspects of the problem Our previous study [20] proposes other possible methods to approach and explain this market. Although we have not yet presented a final result, we have already noticed similar characteristics of VBMs. Below we discuss how we examine the interaction between the individual actors within the market, the market mechanism, various advertisements in the forum, and scrutinization of types of virtual goods that may abuse the software vulnerabilities with malicious intention. This work allows us to create hypotheses about patterns of VBM activities over time  3. Data: Method, Source, and Procedures  Source: Our sources to explore online VBMs come from various ?underground? websites. We begin our investigation on VBM existence through a link referred by a security news article as a place to conduct online illegal activities. Through this process we are able to discover more forums, since directly or indirectly, some active participants cite, refer or even invite others to visit their forum Method: Once a site was identified, we would visit it and observe the activities related to zero-day exploit and other vulnerability-related attack tools. Observation is recommended by Luna-Reyes and Andersen [21] as one of several qualitative social methods that may contribute to developing a SD model. In this research mode, quiet observation without participation is a viable technique for data capture without interfering with the actors VBM sites often use message boards and Internet Relay Chat networks. Both of these tools are usually accessible to visitors. Occasionally, the VBM?s message boards require registration with a valid email address in enrollment. More restrictive forums stipulate certain requirements to establish poster credibility, such as minimum posting activity level, before entry to the VBM forum is permitted. During this study we registered on boards with an anonymous email address, disguising our 


boards with an anonymous email address, disguising our identity so that we could explore all message board areas We observed 12 VBM forums shown in Table 1 coded as W1?W12,  which we roughly categorize as small forums \(website with less than 15,000 members and large forums \(website with more than 15,000 participants to understand the sustainability of the VBMs. Participants appear to prefer large forums where the number of potential buyers is high, and leave unpopular, small ones  Table 1 Observed Forums and No. of Threads  In both small and large forums we found that the three criteria for a potentially viable VBM were met. We observed the presence of buyers and sellers, identified mechanisms for them to meet, and noted a viable medium of exchange. Some websites changed their hosting country, perhaps as a mechanism to remain secure. Others disappeared and re-appeared, reborn or split as new forums. Some closed before we were able to capture data VBM websites may contain VIP sections, with elevated requirements for posting activity, participant recommendation, exploit sharing tools and monthly fees Our research was limited to sites where we could observe without contributing or soliciting exploits. We believe that there are more online secretive VBM sites beyond those 12 forums which remain hidden from public view because we found 5 new VBM forums established in April-May 2008. Zhuge et. al?s study found 2,149 malicious websites in China alone, although there was no Code No. of Threads as of Earliest Post in Forum Name W1 849 \(May  2008 W2 1251 \(May 2008 W3 16  \(May 2008 W3a N/A N/A Only IRC W3b 46 \(May 2008 W4         Used to have BM Forum, now unavailable W5 82 \(N/a W6 655  \(May 2008 W7 5 \(May 2008 W8 17 \(May 2008 W9 10  \(May 2008 W10 2 \(May 2008 W11 18 \(May  2008 W12 27 \(May 2008 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3  explicit clarification of whether these malicious websites contained BMs Procedures: First, we explored all topics and advertisements in each forum and thread of activity. The text was recorded and dated. Coded archives were developed to track the each activity and conversation thread. Second, we coded crucial and relevant characteristics in a cases-attributes matrix. Attributes included title of thread name of thread originators join date and posting date membership status in the forum intention to open the thread contact method\(s payment method\(s if available offered tool?s specification  


Special notice was taken of unique discussions and distinctive cases. The bulletin board structure allowed participants to immediately reply on the same thread. Therefore we could follow development of the discussion Our goal for this effort was two-fold. First, we wanted to collect information on the types of activities that occur on public and semi-public sites purporting to support hacking activities. Second, we wanted to examine how site activities develop over time so that we could form testable hypotheses of the mechanisms and growth of black markets  4. Results  Basic Traits of VBMs: We reflect upon a number of characteristics of the observed VBM forum, and in some ways differentiate between large and small forums First, all forums carefully avoid excessive visibility and disappear intermittently for some weeks. In some cases the problem is purported to be technical, such as server crashes and lost databases. In other situations, the forums are themselves victimized through a D-DoS attack Sometimes the hosting organization cancels the forum as malicious content or activity becomes apparent. A final reason for intermittent activity occurs when the forum leaders argue or want to purge the site of registrants with invalid addresses or no postings. Not surprisingly, to avoid D-DoS attack, certain forums will redirect visitors to another URL Second, as a forum grows the administrators enact increasingly strict rules limiting and controlling the VBM activities and participant growth. For example forums may institute minimal posting levels for continued membership. They also regulate prohibited traded goods. Two public mechanisms for controlling behavior are seen. Threads that contain rule-breaking postings are locked. Offending posters are often provided multiple warnings before being banned from the site.  Smaller and emerging forums seem to have fewer restrictions. This may imply less monitoring of the board by its owners, or a laissez-faire approach that enables growth towards a desired state Third, each forum has membership levels, from newcomer or newbie to the higher rank. The administrator and moderators are typically in the highest level. We identified the rank from the member information label appearing next to a post The particular ranks and names vary among sites, but the ordinal sequence is clear. In addition, there is often a ?Banned? member category Fourth, members use nicknames rather than real names. They often use e-mail domains that are recognized as forwarding sites. In many cases, the given age and geographical location is obviously wrong. This obscurity indicates that participants want to be anonymous Fifth, nearly all forums have rules and social norms There are few formal rules to trade in VBMs, with uneven rule emphasis, strictness and consistency across forums. Many rules are unwritten, but every player understands them. Examples of common written rules include reinforcement of behaviors: limits on flaming and reminders not to scam others. The participants must be willing to provide verifiable email accounts. There are often limits on explicit discussion of clearly illegal activities, such as credit card or bank logins, botnets or hacking requests; such requests are often diverted to private messages or chats, the true back alleys of the Internet. As noted earlier, we found that there are often minimum posts to enter the VBM section of the site 


minimum posts to enter the VBM section of the site Other rules include reminders about the risks of malicious or D-Dos attacks. These rules enact some of the obvious actions proposed in the academic literature that would force the closure of the site or loss of reputation Sixth: There is no righteousness among online VBM burglars. The terms such as ?ripper?, ?leaker? or scammer? are quite popular among underground actors. A ripper is considered as a serious outrage in VBMs; it describes a buyer who violates the agreement by taking the malicious tools without paying the seller; or a seller who cheats the potential buyer by accepting their payment without delivering the virtual goods in return. Such behavior has a serious impact on the buyer?s or seller?s reputation because members distrust sellers or buyers with blemished records Actors in VBM: The structure of these sites is relatively consistent, owing in part to the features of the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4  underlying technology. We found that there is often a clear hierarchy of actors Webmaster, administrators and moderators work together to monitor and mediate all discussions occur in message board area. This is an important task within in the VBM forum, as these actors have a vested interest in maintaining the service. The administrator regulates the size of the market by adding basic requirements for new participants that want to advertise materials. They may also attempt to verify the quality of postings by reviewing the legitimacy of the posters and their wares. In some forums, administrators choose to edit postings containing inappropriate and abusive comments. Moreover, the webmaster, administrators and moderators from each forum have particular ideas about their role in the market process. Their views and perceptions are reflected from the rule or comments in their postings. From Zhuge?s study [18], we learn that in some underground websites the webmaster may act as an intermediary who attracts visitors? attention by providing free music or film downloads. Conversely, the actual motive for having many visitors is to develop and sell website visit logs to Envelope Stealers. Thus, it seems there are two interests that a webmaster should safeguard: to attract visitors and regulate ?access? for participants in certain ?restricted forum such as VBM Active sellers are identified in the forums by their postings. They may be individuals who use their technical skills to investigate and find the weaknesses in software They may also write scripts for exploits and develop malware that could take advantage of discovered problems. Observed sellers include Spammers, who extend existing spam-related tools such as mailers, spreaders, email addresses, logins and passwords Exploiters, who offer various zero-day exploits to gain access to computer administrators, or collect victim computers that can be used to host a phishing site or a spam transmission Carders, who actively offer various CC and CVV2, to create various fake CC. However, most observed VBMs reject participants advertising CC-related or online banking accounts and logins Virus / Malware Writers, who look for vulnerabilities in software and develop exploits. Some exploits may be developed from scratch, while others are modifications from previously available exploits or malware. They are also able to code certain ?obfuscator? tools to hide malicious files from anti-virus tools 


malicious files from anti-virus tools Hosting owners who offer a site for hosting scam pages Cash out for hire: a person who offers a service to cash out a certain financial account Coder, hacker for hire: a participant who offer their technical knowledge in coding to develop specific tools or to hack specific sites Active buyers may also be identified from the intention of their postings Script Kiddies, participants who want to exploit computers without having high skill, look for ?readymade? kits malware or exploits in VBMs Spammers can also be found as buyers Service Requests come from individuals looking for others to hack, create exploits, to make their malicious files undetected by most anti-virus software or to code malicious tools Card buyers are the counterparts of carders; they search for carders. Most forums reject both carders and card buyers by locking the communication when they are detected There is also a type of buyer who does not directly announce the nature of their request. Instead, they respond to a posting by asking for access to a private communication channel Active Participants are much more difficult to identify as they may only make comments without a clear indication of whether they intend to sell or buy. However some of them may be experienced hackers and their comments are sometimes quite critical, affecting the market in terms of trust and reputation Lurkers are participants who may visit VBM forums without active involvement in any activities or discussions Contact: Communication via the Internet makes the user?s real identity untraceable through observation Popular contact methods include forum-based private messaging, instant messaging, and alias e-mail addresses In our sample, private messaging is most often employed In the absence of third-party encryption, though, these messages may be visible to the board administrators Instant messaging, using the facilities of Yahoo Messenger, AIM, MSN, ICQ and IRC, are also popular These tools provide a way for sellers and buyers to reach each other outside the board and on their own schedule Some participants accept email communication. Free email accounts such as Hotmail, Yahoo, and Gmail are commonly employed. As message boards often have internal mechanisms for private messages, we assume that this approach is popular, though not visible to persons outside the domain Transaction: Payment Methods and Pricing The obscurity and secrecy of VBM trading carries over to payment methods. The use of online money transfer seems more attractive than the traditional paper methods such as cheques and money orders. The most popular payment methods are e-gold \(www-e-gold.com providing gold conversion services and webmoney www.wmtransfer.com electronic currency in circulation across various websites Within these realms our NM participants prefer WMZ, a currency linked to USD. Other currencies or mechanisms include ePassporte, PayPal, Moneybookers, Money Gram Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5  and Western Union \(WU PSC \(Paysafecard All the services purport to validate and send payments instantly. In this realm, actors are caught in a dilemma, where they want to ensure the completion of their transaction but also avoid tracing and detection. The message boards themselves sometimes contain 


message boards themselves sometimes contain discussions on the relative merits of payment schemes We find there are many different payment services in play. Each financial service has slightly different requirements for their users. Some services permit people to transfer money after providing only an e-mail address E-gold?s relatively high fees and processing steps can discourage some users. Others reject PayPal because of a belief that it is insecure and, ironically, because it is a frequent target for hackers. There are some limits on service availability in different areas. Usually payments are not recoverable ? caveat emptor E-gold?s management  recently pled  guilty to charges of money laundering and conspiracy to operate an unlicensed money transmitting business in the US courts 22]. As part of their plea agreement, e-gold?s management agreed to amend their services and procedures and increase individual accountability for transactions.  Their service is still available, although BM participants apparently possess multiple alternatives money transfer methods for their illegal virtual business Few participants discuss pricing in plain language perhaps participants prefer private messaging or a nonpublic room to discuss the transaction. A few members use flexible methods by accepting three or four different payment methods; depending on the consumers? demand We also found cases where sellers or buyers propose an escrow service, where exploits and funds are held by a third party until the fulfillment of various conditions Previous researchers have reported rather extreme seller-side prices for exploits. These reports include a 50,000 Vista flaw \(from a Romanian web forum  WMF exploit for $4,000 [12], and other zero-day attacks ranging from $5,000 and $20,000 [13]. Other solicitations include offers for a ?weaponized? exploit in for $20,000 to 30,000 [23] and zero-day vulnerabilities on the Internet black market for $25,000 [24 Our own observations find that these prices are rarely reached. It is almost impossible to find any offer in observed VBMs in these ranges. Table 2 provides a selected price quotation we observed in the VBM These do not represent the final price, of course, as we cannot see the transactions at market. The market participants appear to recognize appropriate price ranges based on the type of product and how it is developed \(i.e custom work or modification of an existing exploit interesting conversation between actors revolved around a low-cost offer for an IE6 or IE7 exploit. A potential seller criticized the offer noting that legitimate markets such as iDefense would pay much more than he is willing to pay for such bugs. This gives some indication that the availability of a legal market presence provides some bargaining power to sellers Traded Tools: Some of the exploit tools that are currently being traded include Bot tools that develop and operate automated attacks on networked computers. The advertisements in VBMs include executables, source code, and particular bot flavors, including spammers, mailers and D-Dos attacks Remote Control tools such as Poison Ivy \(a kind of malicious trojan firewall-bypassing remote administration VNC remote control software which allow users to view and interact with other computers over the network, and bifrost, a backdoor type and an advance remote administration tool that allow attackers to remotely control computers behind firewalls and routers Application Exploits, such as for various web browsers and shop administrators Hosting and domain name services for hackers Packer-related tools that hide the contents of malware 


Packer-related tools that hide the contents of malware including crypter, binder, scramble, and obfuscator Financial information, including credit card numbers and CVV2 numbers, bank accounts, logins and passwords, and PayPal and e-gold accounts Spam tools such as email addresses, php-mailers, and mass-mailer tools System Administration accounts such as root or administrative access to specific servers and admin logins Rootkits, tools used to maintain and mask root-level intrusions Password-stealing tools with various name such as trojan grabber, bruteforce, keyloggers, password stealer, password grabber, password scanner Our findings differ somewhat from Franklin et al.?s results [17]. Their sample saw significant activity surrounding stolen data, such as credit card and CVV2 information. They also found notices of machines that have been compromised and are available for mass Table 2 Examples of Some Prices of Traded Goods  Product Type Cost Packers-Related $ 50 - 100 Some exploits $ 500 ? 1,000 MPack Exploit bidding Start from $ 150 Shop Admin Exploit $ 100 ? 300 Mass mailing ? 50 ? 70 / server Undetected Obfuscators $ 80 Full admin access $ 300 Source: Observation in hacker websites, 2008 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6  mailings, electronic funds transfer fraud and phishing attacks. In our case, our larger black market sites rejected explicit sensitive data trading. When carders attempted to post, administrators often locked the threads before a public dialog ensued. There is no way to know if the transaction was completed There are many gray areas in this work, as licit and illicit activities can occur in the same location. One of our cases has VBM-related threads, targeting Microsoft products. The same site contains discussions of legal market practices among security researchers. Thus we note that sites perform legitimate roles for discussion and less savory roles hosting hackers and tools. This ambiguity of purpose is consistent with observations in the security literature that hackers are not easily classified as good or bad, and suggest that mechanisms might exist to encourage hacking to improve software quality rather than for attack. We build on this idea to develop a simulation of such a mechanism  5. Concept Model  In this section we present a ?concept model? derived from our recent understanding about the features of a black market for vulnerabilities. A concept model, a term introduced by Richardson [25], serves to illustrate a systems view of a problem through formal simulation. We use the tools of system dynamics [26] to identify how elements of the problem are causally linked to produce the problem behavior under study. Behaviors may be empirically observed or constructed from theory. Formal simulation requires the explicit specification of the components of the problem that generate the behavior and in turn makes this specification concrete and open for critical examination Further, concept models help identify what data is 


important for investigation and raise awareness about potential counter-intuitive behavior  5.1 Reference Mode  One important aspect of developing dynamic simulation models is the representation of system behaviors as they evolve over time. This is both an aspect of theory development and model refinement Problem definition starts with the depiction of how critical variables behave. These depictions are drawn from the understanding of experts, hard data, or both reflecting the robust and often contradictory perceptions of reality found in complex systems [26 In this particular problem, we considered the abstract problem of vulnerabilities within a single software product. The unknown vulnerabilities embedded in this product are ultimately discovered by Black Hat and White Hat hackers, operating in legal \(LM markets \(VBM vulnerabilities discovered will monotonically increase as the hackers pore over the software \(Figure 1 assume that having both a legal and a black market will increase the speed at which vulnerabilities will be found Arguably, paying hackers provides incentives for their efforts and draws new individuals into the search, in essence a multiplier effect based on the original incentive structure \(the cross-hatched area  5.2 Model Description  Our concept model?s objective is a formal representation of the structure of a vulnerability marketplace that produces this postulated behavior The major constructs of SD models are stocks and flows. Stocks, represented by boxes, are accumulations of physical items or information over time. Flows represented by double line arrows, represent the movement of these items among stocks, captured as a rate over time. In addition, information about the size of stocks or flows is available. In most cases we find that information about the state of stocks and flows feeds back into the system and changes the size of future flows These information flows, depicted by single line arrows form loops that reinforce or suppress future changes in the system [26 Figure 1 Hypothesized reference mode Unknown Vulnerabilities ManifestVulnerabilities Patched Vulnerabilities WH Discovery RateWH Researchers Volunteering Patch RateLM Discovery Rate BM Discovery Rate BH Researchers on BM Avg effort required to patch vulnerability BH Researchers on LM WH Researchers on LM Patch Staff Figure 2 Vulnerability Finding and Trading Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7  


 The structure of this Vulnerability Finding and Trading model includes three linked stocks representing the migration of vulnerabilities among three states \(Fig 2 number of unknown vulnerabilities. White Hat and Black Hat hackers attempt to uncover these vulnerabilities and make them manifest. White Hat hackers discover vulnerabilities and provide them to developers or to open non-profit vulnerability sites. Black Hat hackers sell their findings for our hypothesized black market. Later in the paper we will activate a third channel, representing a legal market for vulnerability exchange Once a vulnerability is manifest, it remains until software developers develop patches that address the vulnerability. Moving manifest vulnerabilities forward to a patched or hardened state is important, as software consumers are exposed for the time that any vulnerability is manifest and unpatched. In this model, the speed of patching depends on the number of patch staff and the effort required to install the patches. For the purposes of this concept model, we ignore the concerns about delays in the application of patches on the consumer side for fear of side effects The goal of a legal vulnerability market is to move Black Hat hackers \(or researchers BM LM some form, with either full or responsible disclosure of vulnerabilities to vendors. This movement is enabled by a combination of incentives that attract the attention of the Black Hats and pay them for their efforts. We have chosen to model this as a form of technology adoption 26], where after the launch of a legal market program, the prospect of legitimate payments and word of mouth dissemination of the success and safety of the new process lures some or all of the Black Hats over to the legal market \(Figure 3 Black Hat, as they do have the option of returning to the illegal marketplace. Our observations of the VBMs support these assumptions. We found hackers that simultaneously deal with legal and black markets, share experiences and provide an evaluation of legal markets The rate of movement is governed largely by the price sensitivity of Black Hats to the offering of the market and their unknown strike price. Some of the individuals who enter the market may return; others may never try it. This approach allows us to simulate the behavior of a continuous marketplace without having to model individual transactions While this model represents an abstraction, it provides a starting point for examination of the effects of introducing a legal market. It is largely an ?open loop model, as it neglects much of the theorized complexity present in a true model of the vulnerability problem. The only feedback in place is the migration of black hat hackers and the effects of that migration of vulnerabilities As we shall see, even this small structure provides some insight, including some counter-intuitive insight   5.3 Simulation  For our initial runs of the simulation we examined several scenarios. The first scenario \(Current the absence of a legal market for overtly compensating hackers for their work. A second scenario \(Legal Market assumes activation of the legal market. We assume the same number of Black Hat and White Hat hackers, and that they have the same skills. As we are modeling their efforts against a single software product, we assume a fixed number of unknown vulnerabilities \(1000 product lifetime of two years 


product lifetime of two years As expected, the cumulative of vulnerabilities discovered over time increases towards the maximum. In the absence of a legal market, with the same number of researchers and the same productivity, vulnerabilities are split evenly Figure 4a expectations are met, we see that there is the expected migration to the legal market \(LM Figure 4b productivity does not change and no new researchers come into the market \(a constraint built into our initial formulation The secondary effects of the successful movement of Black Hat researchers to a legal market are a bit more interesting. We assume that patching vulnerabilities discovered through the black market is more challenging than those discovered through legal or open market Payment per LM Vulnerability effect of BM Payment on BH shift to LM Desired Payment per BH Vulnerability BH Researchers on LM BH Researchers on BM BH to LM Rate BH to BM Rate BH Movement from Payment Program BH Movement from adoption interest BH Adoption Fraction R1 Incentives amp; WOM B2 Saturation B1 Curiosity B3 Return to Market Figure 3 Adoption of Legal Markets By Black Hat Hackers Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8  channels. Black market vulnerabilities are manifested through attacks or extortion threats. The others are manifested through reports to vendors, or postings on web sites, presumably with more information about how the problem was identified. When a legal market is open more information is available, as researchers may be expected to provide documentation, not just the exploit This in turn means that it will be easier to patch vulnerabilities in when a legal market exists. This in turn reduces the time that vulnerabilities are manifest and unpatched, reducing consumer exposure The patch rate also depends on having sufficient resources to patch manifest vulnerabilities as they arise. If there are insufficient resources for this task, then the backlog of manifest vulnerabilities grows \(Figure 5a, line 3 Figure 5b, line 3 There is therefore an unanticipated side effect worth considering. Creating a legal market for vulnerabilities 


considering. Creating a legal market for vulnerabilities may increase software hazards, even when controlling for the number of hackers and their productivity. Firms receiving information about vulnerabilities must act on them or risk increasing exposures. This is an exemplar of the ?shifting the burden? archetype identified by Kim [27 and Senge [28], where changes in one part of a complex system have unanticipated downstream effects In the absence of sufficient resources dedicated to fixing security patches, manifest vulnerabilities accumulate. The more vulnerabilities, the greater risk to the vendor and customers is. While a vulnerability may not always be turned into an attack, long-standing problems might attract attention. In the case of bots where a successful attack on one network might generate other attacks, the overall effect of neglected flaws may reach beyond the boundary of the organization and affect many others  6. Conclusion  Do vulnerability black markets exist, or are they the creation of media and security companies? After collecting data from various websites and discussion forums for months, we believe that there is evidence that such markets exist and remain viable. Our initial examination of data indicates that these forums have a lifecycle and behaviors that support their need for both visibility and invisibility. Participants have to spend time establishing their reputation before their contributions are recognized. Moderators regularly clean and purge their systems of non-contributors, either by removing users or restarting the site. Much of the transaction detail is hidden in the privacy of personal messaging, but solicitations are open. It appears that there must be some reason that these sites perpetuate, so we treat them as real. In turn it becomes useful to examine conditions under which participants in these black markets can be turned to serve more conventional needs while not adding risks to the environment Cumulative Vulnerability Discovery Rates 1,000 750 500 250 0 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 120 240 360 480 600 720 Days Cumulative WH Volunteer Discoveries : Current Days1 1 1 1 Cumulative BM Discoveries : Current Days2 2 2 2 2 2 Figure 4a Vulnerability Discovery - No Legal Market Cumulative Vulnerability Discovery Rates 1,000 750 500 250 


250 0 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 120 240 360 480 600 720 Days Cumulative WH Volunteer Discoveries : Legal Market Days1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Cumulative BM Discoveries : Legal Market Days2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Cumulative LM Discoveries : Legal Market Days3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 Figure 4b Vulnerability Discovery Legal Market Manifest Vulnerabilities 800 600 400 200 0 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 32 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 21 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 72 144 216 288 360 432 504 576 648 720 Time \(Day M anifest Vulnerabilities : Current Vulnerabilities1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 


M anifest Vulnerabilities : Legal Market Vulnerabilities2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 M anifest Vulnerabilities : Legal Market Low Patch Staff Vulnerabilities3 3 3 3 3 Figure 5a Manifest Vulnerability Discovery Consumer Exposure 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 72 144 216 288 360 432 504 576 648 720 Time \(Day No Market Vulnerability-Weeks1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Legal Market Vulnerability-Weeks2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Legal Market and Patch Backlog Vulnerability-Weeks3 3 3 3 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  Our concept model captures an abstract example of parallel legal and illicit markets. While some authors have focused on developing the conditions needed for efficient and cleared markets, we look instead at the process by which transitions from black to white markets develop and the resultant effects on overall software quality. We find that under circumstances where vulnerability discovery is accelerated, it also becomes necessary to speed the development of patches for these flaws. If this is lacking, more manifest vulnerabilities remain, which in turn may increase the exposure of customers and vendors Such counter-intuitive results argue for careful examination of the context and grounding for implementing legal markets as a counter for vulnerability black markets  References  1.] Hoglund, G. and G. McGraw, Exploiting Software: How to Break Code. 2004, Boston: Addison-Wesley 2.] IBM. IBM Internet Security Systems X-Force 2006 Trend Statistics.  2007 January [cited; Available from http://www.iss.net/documents/whitepapers/X_Force_Exec_ Brief.pdf 3.] PandaLabs. Quarterly Report PandaLabs.  2007 July 15 2007 [cited 2007 12 September]; April-June 2007:[Available from: http://www.pandasecurity.com 4.] Symantec, Symantec Global Internet Threat Report: Trend for July - Dec 07. 2008 5.] Finjan Inc. Web Security Trends Report.  2006  [cited 2006 


5.] Finjan Inc. Web Security Trends Report.  2006  [cited 2006 September 20]; Available from http://www.finjan.com/Content.aspx?id=827 6.] Clinard, M.B., The Black Market: A Study of White Collar Crime. 1969, Montclair, New Jersey: Patterson Smith 7.] Radianti, J. and J.J. Gonzalez. a Preliminary Model of The Vulnerability Black Market. In the 25th International System Dynamics Conference  2007. Boston, USA 8.] Ozment, A. Bugs Auctions: Vulnerability Market Reconsidered. In Workshop of Economics and Information Security \(WEIS 9.] B  hme, R. A Comparison of Market Approaches to Software Vulnerability Disclosure. In International Conference ETRICS 2006, LNCS 3995 2006. Freiburg, Germany Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 10.] Miller, C. The Legitimate Vulnerability Market: the Secretive World of 0-day Exploit Sales. In Workshop on Economics of Information Security. 2007. Pittsburgh, USA 11.] Sutton, M. and F. Nagle. Emerging Economic Models for Vulnerability Research. In The Fifth Workshop on the Economics of Information Security \(WEIS College, University of Cambridge, England 12.] Naraine, R. Researcher: WMF Exploit Sold Underground for 4,000 2006  [cited 2007 September 15]; Available from http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,1895,1918198,00.asp 13.] Naraine, R. Hackers Selling Vista Zero-Day Exploit.  2006 cited 2007 June 2]; Available from: http://www.eweek.com print_article2/0,1217,a=196573,00.asp 14.] Naraine, R. Price War: iDefense Doubles Bounty for Security Flaws 2005  [cited 2007 April 28]; Available from http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,1895,1841268,00.asp 15.] Schechter, S. How to Buy Better Testing: Using Competition to Get The Most Security and Robustness for Your Dollar. In Infrastructures Security Conference. 2002. Bristol, UK 16.] Kaplan, D. Threats for $ale. SC Magazine  2006  [cited 2006 August 4]; Available from: www.scmagazine.com/us/news article/556843/threats-ale 17.] Franklin, J., et al. An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Internet Miscreants. In 14 th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security \(CCS Alexandria, VA, USA 18.] Zhuge, J., et al. Studying Malicious Websites and the Underground Economy on the Chinese Website. Honeyblog 2007  [cited 2008 February 25]; Available from http://honeyblog.org/archives/2007/12/summary.html 19.] Akerlof, G.A., The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and Market Mechanism. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 1970. 84\(3 20.] Radianti, J., E. Rich, and J.J. Gonzalez. Using Mixed Data Collection to Uncover Vulnerability Black Markets. In Workshop of Information Security and Privacy. 2007 Quebec, Canada 21.] Luna-Reyes, L.F. and D.L. Andersen, Collecting and analyzing qualitative data for system dynamics: methods and models. System Dynamics Review, 2003. 19\(4 22.] Gross, G. Internet Currency Firm Pleads Guilty to Money Laundering. PCWorld  2008  [cited 2008 July 23]; Available from: http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article 148720/internet_currency_firm_pleads_guilty_to_money_ laundering.html 23.] Higgins, K.J. Bucks for Bugs.  2006  [cited 2007 July 20 Available from http://www.darkreading.com/document.asp?doc_id=99518 24.] Landesman, M. Malware Revolution: A Change in Target 2007  [cited 2007 April 10]; Available from http://www.microsoft.com/technet/community/columns/secm gmt/sm0307.mspx 25.] Richardson, G.P. and D.F. Andersen, Teamwork in Group Model Building. System Dynamics Review, 1995. 11\(2 113-137 26.] Sterman, J.D., Business Dynamics: Systems Thinking and 


26.] Sterman, J.D., Business Dynamics: Systems Thinking and Modeling for a Complex World. 2000, Boston Irwin/McGraw-Hill 27.] Kim, D.H., Introduction to Systems Thinking, in Innovations in Management Series. 1999, Pegasus Communications Waltham, MA 28.] Senge, P.M., The fifth discipline : the art and practice of the learning organization. 1st ed. 1990, New York Doubleday/Currency   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





