html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">2009 WEE  International Advaniee Computing Conference \(IACC 2009 Patiala, India, 6-7 March 2009 Fuzzy Neuro Systems for Machine Learning for Large Data Sets Rahul Kala Anupam ShuLkla, Ritu Tiwari rahulkalaiiitm\(&amp;yahoocoin, dranupamshukla@gmail.com, rt twr@yahoo.co.in Department of Information Tecehology Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management Gwalior Abstract- Artificial Neural Networks have found a 'v;ariety of industrial domains. A hge reason  for this is the working of applications that cover almost every domain. The increasing use Artificial Neural Networks. They  are gaining popularity due to of Artificial Neural Networks and machine learning has led to a the good results and ease of  applicability. The Artificial Neural huge amount of research and making in of large data sets that Networks and especially  backpropagation algorithm has are used for training purposes. Handwriting recognition, speech inspired a lot of research and  applications. They have been recognition, speaker recognition, face recognition are some of the extensively used in speech  and speaker identification [18, 211 varied areas of applications of artificial neural networks. The Another major area of  applihation is the fae recognition [24 larger training data sets are a big boon to these systems as the 261 an other biometrics. The  Handwriting recognition [7, 11 performhance gets better and better with the increase in data sets. also The higher training data set although drastically increases the isa mortrow field. Othearessincu r training time. Also it is possible that the artificial neural network navigaetion, rol[13m ,2f0  22J, lanague proedssg, corneradoes not train at all with the large data sets. This paper  proposes detection, biomdical, fiial ais, credit risk analysi a novel concept of dealing with these scenarios. The paper seris predicton noise removal etc  The research over the proposes the use of a hierarchical model where the training data years in these domains has  attracted the increase in the level of set is first clustered into clusters. Each cluster has its own neural objectives of the research  and the increase in expectations from network. When an unknown input is given to the system, the the system [27 system first finds out the cluster to which the input belongs. Then As a result there has been  an explosion in the training data the input is processed by the individual neural network of that system. The general structure of the algorithm is similar to a sets [1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 12, 25, 27  The umbcrof training datais hybrid system consisting of fuzzy logic and artificial neural always kept high to ensure a good  perfance of the system network being applied one after the othenr The more the trainnmg data, the better is the  performance of the system. The high amount of training data set has a few The system has huge applications in all the areas where disadvantages. The increase in training  data badly increases the Artificial Neural Network is being used extensively. The huge compution cost. As a result it  becomes very difficult fbr the amount of research over these times has resulted in the creation system to train. Also it is  possible that due to the presence of of big databases, which are impractical for a single artificial such a highamount of data, the  system fails to train itself neural network to train. Also the system takes us closer to the imitation of the human brain which has specialized segments for In this paper we propose a novel  approach that solves these all sorts of scenarios. In order to test the working of the proposed problems The approach is  especially useful fr a data set with system, we applied it over a synthetic dataset. The dataset was high amount of training data. We  use a hierarchical approach built by random inputs. We also applied the algorithm to the Here first the training data set is  clustered [10]. We use Fuzzy problem of face recognition. In both the cases, we got a better C Means clusterine to fonn  clusters of the given training data learning and a higher efficiency using our system. The time set required to train the system was also much less than the original single neural network structure. This shows the impact of the Every cluster has a separate  nyetral netwrk. It trins onl 


nyetral netwrk. It trins onl algorithm. the data that belong to its cluster. Likewise there are k neural networks that are trained independent of each other. Whenever Kewords- Machine Learning, Fuzy; Logic, Artificial Neural an ukow input is gi, we first ind out  the most Networks, Neuro Fuzz Sstems, High dimensionality data appropriate cluster by measuring its  distance from various Clustering clusters. Then its output is taken from that particular neural network I. INTRODUCTION Artificial Intelligence has covered almost every domain of hum life ad study. It finds its applications in various 978- 1-4244-2;928-8/09/$25.00  g 2009 IEEE 541 Select Neural Normalization Use this Neural Testing- Network, Network &lt; Output k Neural Networks Training - Nonnalization Fuzzy C Means 4 Training Clustering Data Figure 1: The hierarchical training algorithm This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 talks about the A conventional Neural Network [7  11, 13, 18, 20, 21, 24 motivation of the algorithm. Section 3 discusses the algorithm. gives the inputs to the system  and the output is calculated by Section 4 gives the results of the algorithm. Section 5 gives the the processing by the various  nodes of the system. Every time conclusion. an input is given from the input nodes and the output is collected after processing from the output nodes. The system II. MOTIVATION consists of a number of parallel processing nodes that work onthe input to  generate the output Various approaches have been applied in the past for better machine learning. Artificial Neural Networks with back In this system we do not use one, but k  number of neural propagation algorithm [7, 11, 13, 18, 20, 21, 24] is one of the networks. Each of the neural  networks caters to the needs of most commonly applied approaches. This is a type of some of the inputs that lie within its  range. Each neural supervised machine learning, where the inputs are applied network has a known range of inputs  that it serves. This is continuously and output is calculated. The error or difference decided by the clustering of the  input test data. The numbers of in actual and observed values is back propagated for clusters are thus equal to the number of  neural networks in the adjustments of weights. Another conmon approach is the system Kohonen's Self Organizing Maps \(SOMs   and testing. The of unsupervised machine learming. Petri Nets and Linear purpose of training is to make the k  Artificial Neural Networks Vector Quantization are other such methods. and decide their clusters. The training data is  clustered using Corners' Algorithm [14, 15, 17] is another algorithm that Fuzzy C Means clustering. This gives  us the center of every works for instantaneous machine learning. The instantaneously cluster. We also get the members  of every cluster. Every trained neural networks have very low generalization power a cluster has its own neural network  This neural network is very short training time. They are said to be the short term trained independently of all other  networks using the members memory of the system. of this cluster. An input is a member of a cluster is its member only when the cluster is the closest to this input in the n We also have fuzzy systems that are usually able to solve dimensional input space. When this  process is over for all the k problems. The neuro fuzzy 8 16, 23 26] systems are another neural networks, we have the networks  ready for the testing way of machine learning. These systems try to build fuzzy logic out of the given data and use back propogation algorithm In testing phase, whenever an  input is given, we select the or steepest descend approach to optimize the model. best cluster that is closest to the input  We then process the input by this neural network. The general architecture of theGenetic Algorthms 23] and particle  swarm optimizations system is given in Figure 2 116] are also being used with Neural Networks for optimization 


116] are also being used with Neural Networks for optimization of performance and getting global minima for the system. The algorithm is similar to a hybrid  system where the fuzzy Various other developments are being applied to improve the logic is applied first and the  results are fed into an artificial mathematical background for various problems [2, 3, 10]. neural network for the further  processing and to generate the For the reduction in training time of the Artificial Neural PNeural Output Networks, distributed and parallel processing systems [1, 4, 5 6, 9, 12, 25] are being built. They use various types of partitioning to distribute the whole work of training into Neural Output multiple terminals. Network 2 Neural III. ALGORITHM Input NetwoP &gt; rk In this section we have a look into all the aspects of the Select working of the algorithm. The major steps of the algorithm are or given in Figure 1 Network k Output 5427 2009 IEE InternationalAdvanceC ompu}ting Conference \(IACC 2009 Fligure 2: The hierarchical stcture of the algorithm SupPOse that our training data is We discuss more about the various phases of the algorithm &lt;12 II22, 123, 114. .120n&gt in detail in the next few subsections. We discuss the two phases 122 U, L4 Ln&gt of training and testing, one by one. J 2 lt;II1 Ilm2, Im, Im14-.I=&gt A. Training Using Fuzzy C Means Clustering we get the k centers as The purpose of this stage is to form the k Neural Networks, &lt;C c c C each trained by its set of inputs. Each neural network has its &lt;c, c22 C13, C24,C own range in which it opeates Fuzzy C Means Clustering: FuLzzy C means Clustering is &lt;Ck1, Ck, Ck1, Ck4-- - -.C&gt a clustering algorithm that is extensively used for clustering of input data in various applications. In this algorithm, we need to specify the number of clusters in advance. The algorithm Now we allocate every inlput to a  corresponding cluster clusters the input data into these many clusters. We get the This is decided based on the basis  of the distance between the centers of the clusters at the end. This clustering algorithm is iut and the cluster. We select  the cluster with the least called a fuzzy algorithm, as any data element is not a member distance from the given input. The  distance bewecn any two of Just one cluster, rather it is associated with more than one points X&lt;x1, X2, x3, x4  x0&gt; and Y&lt;y1, y. y y4 ...... Yn&gt; is cltusters each with a different mnembership degree. This given by \(1 clustering algorithm also gives us the membership degrees of the various inputs. The clustering of any general iput is given in figure 3. 4e 00\(1 0 o The cluster p to which any given input I belongs is given by 00000 \(2 9,8 @ Cluster\(l I,Cp l,C 2 Xfx % % We look at all the training data and decide the cluster to CA X K &lt;Ktwhichthey belong. We group up data and hence at the end x31* X 8 *N X each cluster has some input training dta associated with it Through this step, we have clustered the input data into various clusters Normalization.: The input data may be havin ve high ranges. Since we are using backpropagation algorithm, we need 72 DA ORe as 1 to make sure that data in every step lies within workable ranges. If the input data is very high, it is possible that it may Figure3: The 2 clusters clustered by the dalgorithm \(sho as large overshoot the workable range  in any step of internal characteres the Artificial Neural Network toolkit of MATLAB. If the input In our algorithm, we first of all need to decide the number data sizes are even slightly higher  the results are badly of clusters. This value depends of the level up to which we affected wait the system to be distributed. The higher value of k would Hence it is usually preferred to  keep all inputs betecu -l result in larger number of neural networks. The inputs would to 1 This improves the perfonrance  In order to make sure thatbe distributed over a larger ntumber of systems. This would te  siptheuts are within range, we apply a step of normalization.improve the training time. However  a neural network may fail Intitpee iptisdiie bytemxmmvleta ro X o . . . . ~~~~~In: this ste-p every inptt is divilded by the zmaxinuiLm vtaltie thatto give  


ro X o . . . . ~~~~~In: this ste-p every inptt is divilded by the zmaxinuiLm vtaltie thatto give  good performance if the number of training data in it is t t s t too small ~~~~~~~~~~~theibpvt can take. Usually we tak this maximum value as thetoo small  maximum valute that is presetnt in the training input. This is By analyzing the training data set and the system given by equation \(3 requirements, we decide the value of k. The other parameters that we need to fix in this algorithm are maximum umber of iterations, minimumn improvemnent and exponent. Once we run w S : : \(3 the algorithm, the data is anlalyzed and the various clusters arc 3 formedl. At the en of thes algortm wev get to knowv the centers ofthe kclusters thatwe had intended to fid. If the outputs are also quite large, then we need to normalize them as well. Thits can be  dIone by dividing them 200 IACC 2009 with the maximum output, as we did for the input. This would generated 1000 random cases  comprising of 5 random numbers ensure that thc output is within the range of -1 to 1, under as input and a random binary  output. We used 4 clusters in which the atificial neural network woWd be able to perform clustering of these inputs. The  clusters generated are shown in well. figure 4. The 4 neeural networks were trained independent of These maximum values need to be preserved, as we would h other and at the end of 4 neural s were need them in the testing phase as well. While testing also, ready whenever an input is applied, we first find out the cluster to which it belongs. Then we divide the input by the same value 0 as we did for all the training data of that cluster. 0 Ql Training: The most commonly used method for training is 0 the back propagation algorithm. In this algorithm, the inputs 00 d are applied one after the other and the outputs are calculated The actual results to each of these inputs are klnown. The 0 0 difference is calculated between the actual and the observed , 7 outputs. This error is back propagated to all the layers. The 0 o layers uses the concept of steepest descend to calculate the new O 60, d 0 weights. The weights are changed to the new weights. Next , 9 # d J tim:e when same inputs are applied, the errors are smaller. This process is repeated for a few iterations or epochs. 0 6 We have the k clusters ready, each with a set of normalized 00 0 6 b z a data sets from the previous step. We use the back propagation algorithm in all these k neural networks and train them 00 00 00 05 independently. The limited inputs are given and hence training is a lot better and faster. Figure 4: The 4 centers of clusters formed from training input  shown by black dots B. Testing Once the k Neural Networks are ready, we need to test We then tested the system. It was observed  that by using them for unknown inputs. This is done in the testing phase of only the conventional Neural  Network, the perfonnance was the algorithm. found to be 71.10% correct. But by using this algorithm we gotan accuracy of  79.10%. The increase in accuracy clearly shows Selecting the Cluster: We have k neural networks that are the impact of the algorithm. Also the  time needed to traim the ready. We need to select one of them. This selection is done by neural nletwork was much less in  the latter finding the cluster that is closest to the given inpt. This selection is the same as given in equations \(1 2 Normalization: As discussed above, we need to noirmalize In this dataset, we were nieeded to  identify the faces of the input as we did for the training data. Every cluster had a people. The various faes are  takein, in fomr of images aind maximum value per input which we used to divide the input to preprocessed to correct their size  and extract the relevanlt parts make it lie within the range of -I to 1. We divide the input by of the images. The features are  extracted using the image the same value as we did for all the training data of that cluster. processing toolbox in  MATLAB. The featres that were This value is given in \(3 Use of Neural Network: We have selected the Neural mouth and eye, position of mouth and eye  distance betweenUse o eualt . haveselete ur eye and miouth. These features were utsed as the  inputs to theNetwvork anld the no-rmalized input to be processed. We now sses apply the input to this neural network using the forward pass of y the artificial neural network. The various nodes process the We classified the inputs into a set  


the artificial neural network. The various nodes process the We classified the inputs into a set  of 2 cltusters and inpputs and pass the results to the sibsequent layers. The final distributed the input data set  into these 2 clusters. These were answer is given by the output ilode. This is the output to the trained independent of each  other. While training we observed given input that may be interpreted as per the requirements of that the numrber of epochs that  were required was much less the system. than the original system. We also observed the system getting trained a lot more easily. Hence this system performed much IV. RESULTS better than our original system of single neural network In order to test the working of the algorithmX, we tested it The perfomance of the single neural  network was both for the sythetic data and the face recognition data set. We measured to be 87.5%. After  applying the clustering, the give both the results in the next sections. performance got raised to 92.5%. This shows that the  system is able to perfSormr much beffecr as a result of clustering and the A. Synthetic: Data Set in:crease in perfrmace is observed We generated a rnom problem where thie system waXs to maket a Yes/No decision, based on the 5 inputs given to it. We 5:44 200:9 IEE InterntionalAdmne ompating Comnfeene \(IA4CC 2009 V. CONCLUSION [7] Draghici Sorin, "A neural network based artificial vision system for licence plate recognitionO, international Journal of Network Security,In this paper we saw that  by using a hierarchical nature, we International Journal ofNeural Systems, Vol. 8, No. 1, 1997 have successfully implemented an intelligent system. The [8] Er, Meng Joo; Zhou, Yi, 'A novel  framework for automatic generation system was much easier to train and gave better performance. of fuzzy neural networks  Neurocomputing, 71 \(2008 The system was easily able to solve the face identification [9] [9] Estevez, Pablo A; PaugamMoisy, Helene, Puzenat, Didier, Ugarte problem. The system hence can be easily used in place of the Manuel, "A scalable parallel  algorithm for training a hierarchical conventional Neural Networks. This system can be a big boon mixture of neural experts", Parallel  Computing 28 \(2002 for the systems where the training data sets are too large in [10] Feng, Zhonghui; Zhou, Bing  and Shen, Junyi, "A parallel hierarchical size. They can be used in all the problems that currently use clustering algorithm for PCs  cluster system", Neurocomputing Volume Back Propagation Algorithm or other algorithms inmArtificial70, Issues 4-6, January 2007, Pages  809-8 18Bac tion  11] Graves Alex, Fernandez Santiago, Liwicki Marcus, Bunke Horst,Noleural Noletworks  Schmidhuber Jurgen, ,Unconstrained Online Handwriting Recognition In this system, we first used Fuzzy C Means clustering to with Recurrent Neural NetworksFH  Advances in Neural Information classify the whole data into data clusters. This gave each Processing Systems 20, 2008classify  thranewhole daputawhiinto supon. h clusters each [12] Hanzalek Zdenek, "A Parallel algorithm for gradient training of cluster a range of inputs which it work u Each cluster has feedforward neural networks", Pattern  Computing, 24\(1998 its own Artificial Neural Network. Each cluster is trained using [13] Jia, Zhen, Balasuriya  Arjuna and Challa, Subhash, " Sensor fusionthe training data sets that belong to it. The training is carried based visual target tracking  for autonomous vehicles with the out-ofout using the Back Propagation algorithm. At the end of the sequence measurements solution  Robotics and Autonomous Systems testing phase we have k Neural Networks that are ready to Volume 56, Issue 2, 29 February 2008  Pages 157-176 perform. [14] Kak, S.C.;" New algorithms for training feedforward neural networks Pattern Recognition Letters, 15, 295-298 \(1994 At the testing phase we have an unknown input. We first [15] Kak, Subhash C.," On generalization  by neural networks", ELSEVIER find the cluster that would be processing this input. This is the Information Sciences 111  1998 cluster with the least distance from the input. Then we use the [16] Lin, Cheng-Jian; Hong  Shang-Jin, 'The design of neuro-fuzzy networks Neural Network corresponding to the selected cluster to using particle swarm optimization and  recursive singular value process the input and find out the output to this input. decomposition', Neurocomputing 71  2007 


17] Madineni, K.B., " Two corner classi cation algorithms for training the In this paper we have formed a system where we cluster the Kak feedforward neural network  Information Sciences 81, 229-234 data and hence setup a hierarchical structure of the system. It \(1994 may be possible sometimes that the training data becomes too [18] Mohanty, S.; Bhattacharya, S  Recognition of Voice signals for Oriya low in some clusters. This may force re-clustering with some Language using wavelet Neural  Network', ACM International Journal restrictions. The actual method of the same is yet to be studied. of Expert Systems with  Applications, Vol 34, Issue 3, pp 2130-2147 It is also preferred for the clusters to be of equal size due to [ Ozi r L perfonance rasons The custerig algrithm ay be [19] Ozdzynski, Plotr; Lin, Andy; Llljeholm, Mimi  and Beatty, Jackson, "Aperformance reasons. The clusterig algorithm may be parallel general  implementation of Kohonen's self-organizing map modified to incorporate these changes. Also we need to make algorithm: performance and  scalability", Neurocomputing Volumes 44some means to identify up to what limit we can cluster the 46, June 2002, Pages 567-571 data. There needs to be an optimal value of the parameter k as [20] Pagac, D., Nebot, E. M. and  Durrant. W., H., "An evidential approach to both the extremes will reduce the system performance. This map building for autonomous robots  IEEE Trans. On Robotics and also needs to be studied in future. Automation, vol. 14, no.2, pp. 623-629, Aug. 1998.[21  Papakostas, G. A., Karras D. A., Mertzios B. G., and Boutalis, Y. S, 'An Efficient Feature Extraction Methodology for Computer Vision REFERENCES Applications using Wavelet Compressed Zernike Moments', ACM 1] Alves, R.Lde.S.; de Melo, J.D.; Neto, A.D.D. and Albuquerque, International Journal  ofInformation Sciences, Vol 177, Issue 13, 2007 A.C.M.L, "New parallel algorithms for back-propagation learning", [22] Purwin, Oliver; D'Andrea  Raffaello; Lee, Jin-Woo; "Theory and Proceedings of the 2002 International Joint Conference on Neural implementation of path planning  by negotiation for decentralized agents Networks, 2002. IJCNN 02 pp 2686-2691, 2002 "o Robotics andAutonomous Systems Volume 56, Issue  5, 31 May 2008 2] Amin, Md. Faijul; Murase, K., Single-layered complex-valued neural Pages 422-436 network for real-valued classification problems, Neurocomputing [23] Sandhu, Parvinder Singh  Salaria, Dalwinder Singh; Singh , Hardeep 2008  Fuzzy-GA Based 3 AngJ.H. et al.,TrainingneuralnetworksforclassificationusingApproaches for Software Reusability  Evaluation', Proceedings of Worls[3]pan i..tyasTn eutworksefoclsictin usn 0got Academy of  Science, Engineering and Technology Volume 29 May,probability-based evolution, Neurocomputing  2008 doi: 10.1016/j'.neucom.2007.10.011 208 SN 3768 4] Azar N.G. and LeeS.-Y2 Hybrid partitioning for particle-in-cell [24] Shukla, Anupam; Tiwari  Ritu, 'Fusion of Face and Speech Featureswith Artificial Neural Network for Speaker  Authentication', IETE simulation on shared memory systems, Proc. of 11th International Technical Review, Vol 24, No 5  September-October 2007, pp 359-368 Conference on Distributed Computing Systems, 20-24 May 1991, pp. [25] Suresh, S.; Omkar, SN. and  Mani, V, "Parallel Implementation of Back526-533 5] Babi Sorin; Cretu Vladimir Petriu EmilM., "Performance Evaluation Propagation Algorithm in  Networks of Workstations", IEEE[5 ii t l r e u c a io Transactions on Parallel and Distributed  Systems, Vol 16, No 1, pp 24of Two Distributed BackPropagation Implementations", Proceedings of 34 January, 2005 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Orlando, Florida, [ T, JS;Tao,CNli USA, August 12-17,2007 [26] Taur, J.S.; Tao, C.W., 'A New Neuro-Fuzzy Classifier with  ApplicationUSA, August12-17,007 to On-Line Face Detection and Recognition' Journal of VLSI Signal[6] Campobello, Giuseppe  Patane, Giuseppe and Russo, Marco, ";An Processin 26 397-409 2000 efficient algorithm for parallel distributed unsupervised learning", g Neurocomputing, Volume 71, Issues 13-15, August 2008, Pages 2914- [27] Vieira, Armando  Barradas, Nuno; 'A training algorithm for 2928 classification of high-dimensional data', Neurocomputing 50 \(2003 472 20099 IEEE IternastionjqalzAdvanc Comutn Conferene \(4C 209 4 pre></body></html 


Figur e 7  Latency in different hops X axis is hop count and Y axis is delay time in millisecond unit Number of nodes is 64  sink injected packets number M  100  034  2000 ms  Cascades is much lower than Drip as is illustrated in Figure 4 With the increment of network density the hop latency of Cascades falls below that of Drip The last hop latency decides the convergence speed of the broadcasting protocol In Figure 8 we present the average last hop latency of Drip and Cascades Similar to above discussion the last hop latency of Cascades was less than that of Drip as we increased the network density Though the adaptive dt wait and changing of DT C  seq  in our implementation discussed previously help to reduce the communication cost and speed up the dissemination we still leave this as an open problem to investigate how to choose those parameters that affect dt wait  Testbed Experiment Results We did empirical experiments on an indoor sensor network testbed of 15 Micaz motes The CC2420 radio power of Micaz was set to power level 2 to form a multi-hop network In the testbed experiment we also compared the performance of Cascades to Bcast which is a blind-\003ooding protocol all the nodes in the network will rebroadcast after receiving a packet with a sequence number different from that of the last received packet There is no retry timer applied in Bcast Our testbed experiment shows that Cascades performs better than both Drip\(gossip based broadcast protocol and Bcast blind 003ooding broadcast protocol in all three aspects reliability communication cost and delivery delay Reliability\227 From Figure 9 we can see that the average reliability of Cascades is 100  while that of Drip is only 95  1  Noticed that in TOSSIM simulation both Cascades and Drip can achieve reliability with 2000 ms injected interval The performance of Drip and Cascades is similar in most of time\(the slopes are the same but after losing several packets the reliability of Drip falls a little Such packet lost could be explained as in some cases Drip cannot guarantee all nodes in the network to receive sink-injected packet within 034 period which is 2000 ms in our experiment Though such event does not always happen from user's perspective Figure 8  Last hop latency changing with density X axis is the number of nodes and Y axis is latency in millisecond unit Number of nodes is 64  the number of injected packets from sink M  100  034  2000 ms  Figur e 9  Reliability in different checking time points testbed result X axis is checking time points in second unit Y axis is reliability Number of nodes is 15  sink injected packets number M 100 034  2000 ms  it could be viewed as a temporary system failure Bcast only achieves 79  4  reliability Communication Cost\227 In the experiment it only costs Cascades 810 packets to converge while 1917 packets for Drip For each node the average number of broadcast packets is 54 for Cascades 72  4 for Bcast and 127  8 for Drip That means although Cascades uses retry timer for loss recovery its communication cost is still lower than Bcast which is lack of retry This is because Cascades exploits the bene\002ts of opportunistic broadcast Figure 10 illustrates the communication cost with varying time 5 C ONCLUSION In this paper we propose a reliable dissemination routing protocol called Cascades  to disseminate data from the sink 7 
 


Figur e 10  Communication cost in different checking time points testbed result X axis is checking time points in second unit and Y axis is the number of broadcast data packets Number of nodes is 15  sink injected packets number M  100  034  2000 ms  to all or a subset of the nodes in a short time period Cascades utilizes the parent-children relationship to ensure truly 100  reliable dissemination Each parent node monitors whether or not its children have received the broadcast messages through implicit listening e.g snoop child's broadcast or explicit ACKs Hence it guarantees that a disseminated message from the sink will reach all of the intended receivers in the network On the other hand it is also an opportunistic broadcast protocol and the dissemination 003ow does not depend on the data gathering tree structure and the path is not deterministic Opportunistic broacast speeds up the dissemination process and increases the system scalability and robustness A PPENDIX We 002rst describe the notations of data structures messages and functions in algorithm 1 1 Data Structures a C u denotes the set of children nodes of node u in the sink tree It will be updated by the TopologyMgmt module if the connectivity changes b C u  seq  denotes the subset of children of node u  who have explicitly or implicitly acked the DAT A  seq 003   Initially C u  seq   036  Notice that C u  seq  may not necessarily be the subset of C u during the topology update period c C 000 u  seq  denotes the set of children whose subtree contains the intended receiver but have not acknowledged the DAT A  seq 003   In broadcast routing C 000 u  seq   C u 000 C u  seq   i.e the set of nodes in C u  but not in C u  seq   d dt wait is the wait time interval for all children's implicit or explicit acknowledgements e rt wait is the time interval of waiting for the new parent's transmission of missed messages during topology update f expectingSeq is the next-in-order sequence of data that u is expecting Initially it is 1  g hig hestSeq is the highest sequence of data that u has received Notice that highestSeq may not equal to expectingSeq 000 1 if there is a gap in data Initially it is 0  h DT  seq  is the data rebroadcast timer of DAT A  seq 003   i RT is the data request timer to ask the new parent to send missed data if any after parent changes j hasData  seq  is TRUE if DAT A  seq 003  has been received otherwise FALSE 2 Messages a DAT A  seq 003  is a data message with sequence number seq  b ACK  seq x  is the acknowledgement message of DAT A  seq 003  to x from its children or some other nodes happens only when topology is inconsistent c REQU EST  seq parent  is the request message of DATA with sequence number seq to the parent  d N ODAT A  seq  is a message to notify children that messages with sequence number equal or larger than seq have not been received 3 Functions a isActive  timer  is TRUE if the timer is active otherwise FALSE b send  msg x   send msg to node x  c broadcast  msg   broadcast msg  Algorithm 1 Cascades Dissemination Protocol Each node u runs the following event-driven procedure switch event  f 1 message DAT A  seq C 000 x  seq  received from node x   add into Cu  C u  seq   C u  seq  S x   Packet with sequence seq has been ACKed by all children  if  C 000 u  seq    036  isActive DT  seq   f stop timer DT  seq   g if f buffer it and copy it to the up layer for process   TR UE if seq  highestSeq  highestSeq  seq  if seq  expectingSeq  f while\(hasData[expectingS e xpectingSeq  if expectingSeq  highestSeq  isActive RT  start repeat timer RT  rt wait  g  Not receiving ACK from each child  if C 000 u  seq  6  036  f broadcast DAT A  seq C 000 u  seq   start repeat timer DT  seq   dt wait  g else f send ACK  seq parent   parent  g g else f  receive old message  8 
 


if  u 2 C 000 x  seq   f  my parent does not receive ack from me  send ACK  seq parent   x  g g break 2 message ACK  seq x  received from node y  C u  seq   C u  seq  S y  if  C 000 u  seq    036  isActive DT  seq   f stop timer DT  seq   g  The parent address in ACK message is not me delete it from C u  if x 6  u  C u  C u n y  break 3 timer DT  seq  002red if  C 000 u  seq    036  f stop timer DT  seq   g else f broadcast DAT A  seq C 000 u  seq   g break 4 parent switched to node x  parent  x  if\(!isActive RT  f send REQU EST  expectingSeq parent   parent  start repeat timer RT  rt wait  g break 5 timer RT 002red send REQU EST  expectingSeq parent   parent  break 6 message REQU EST  seq x  received from node y  if x 6  u  break C u  C u S y  if\(hasData[seq f broadcast DAT A  seq C 000 u  seq   g else f broadcast N ODAT A  expectingSeq   g break 7 message N ODAT A  seq  received from node x  if x 6  parent  break if\(!isActive\(RT break if seq 024 expectingSeq  f stop timer RT g else f expectingSeq  seq  stop timer RT g break g A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The research described in this paper was supported by NASA ESTO AIST program and USGS Volcano Hazard program under the research grant NNX06AE42G Many thanks to Prof Rong Zheng from University of Houston for their insightful comments on this paper R EFERENCES  J Hui and D Culler  223The dynamic beha vior of a data dissemination protocol for network programming at scale,\224 in The 2nd ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems SenSys'04  2004  P  Le vis N P at el D Culler  and S Shenk er  223T ri ckle A self-regulating algorithm for code propagation and maintenance in wireless sensor networks,\224 in Proceedings of the First USENIX/ACM Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation NSDI 2004  2004  223O ASIS Optimized Auto nomous Space In-Situ S ensor Web http://sensorweb.vancouver.wsu.edu.\224  G W erner Allen K Lorincz J Johnson J Lees and M Welsh 223Fidelity and yield in a volcano monitoring sensor network,\224 in Proceedings of the 7th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation OSDI  2006  K V isw anath and K Obraczka 223Modeling the perfor mance of 003ooding in multihop ad hoc networks,\224 in Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS  2004  K W hitehouse A W oo F  Jiang J Polastre  and D Cutler 223Exploiting the capture effect for collision detection and recovery.\224 in The Second IEEE Workshop on Embedded Networked Sensors EmNetS-II  2005  A E phremides and T  V  T ruong 223Scheduling broadcasts in multihop radio networks,\224 vol 38 no 4 pp 456\226460 April 1990  R Zheng L Sha and W  Fe ng MAC layer support for group communication in wireless sensor networks  2005  B W illiams and T  Camp 223Comparason of broad casting techniques for mobile ad hoc networks,\224 in ACM MobiHoc  2002  F  Stann J H eidemann R Shrof f and M Z Murtaza 223Rbp robust broadcast propagation in wireless networks,\224 in SenSys 06 Proceedings of the 4th international conference on Embedded networked sensor systems  New York NY USA ACM Press 2006 pp 85\22698  M Ag arw al L Gao J H Cho and J W u 223Energy ef\002cient broadcast in wireless ad hoc networks 9 
 


with hitch-hiking,\224 INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third AnnualJoint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies  vol 10 no 6 pp 897\226910 2004  P  K ya sanur  R R Choudhury  and I Gupta 223S mart gossip An adaptive gossip-based broadcasting service for sensor networks,\224 in The Third IEEE International Conference on Mobile Ad-hoc and Sensor Systems MASS  2006 pp 91\226100  F  Stann and J Heidemann 223Bard  Baye sianassisted resource discovery in sensor networks,\224 USC/Information Sciences Institute Tech Rep July 2004  Q Huang C Lu and G.-C Roman 223Spatiotem poral multicast in sensor networks,\224 in SenSys 03 Proceedings of the 1st international conference on Embedded networked sensor systems  New York NY USA ACM Press 2003 pp 205\226217  R Zheng 223 Information dissemination in po wer constrained wireless networks,\224 in INFOCOM 2006 Proceedings of the 25th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications  2006 pp 1\22610  C.-Y  W an A T  Camp bell and L Krishna murth y  223Psfq a reliable transport protocol for wireless sensor networks,\224 in WSNA 02 Proceedings of the 1st ACM international workshop on Wireless sensor networks and applications  New York NY USA ACM Press 2002 pp 1\22611  S.-J P ark R V e dantham R Si v akumar  a nd I F  Ak yildiz 223Garuda Achieving effective reliability for downstream communication in wireless sensor networks,\224 IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing  June 2007  P  L e vis N Lee M W elsh and D Culler  223T ossim Accurate and scalable simulation of entire tinyos applications,\224 in Proceedings of the First ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems SenSys  2003 B IOGRAPHY Yang Peng received his master degree in computer science from Washington State University Vancouver in July 2008 Before that he was a research assistant of sensorweb research laboratory His research interest includes reliable data dissemination and smart sensing on wireless sensor networks His master thesis is 223Smart Sensing Design for Environment Monitoring Sensor Networks\224 He received BS degree from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications Wenzhan Song is an assistant professor in computer science from Washington State University Vancouver He is the Principal Investigator of Optimized Autonomous Space In-Situ Sensorweb project which is supported by NASA ESTO AIST program and a multidisciplinary team involving earth scientists computer scientists and space scientists His research interest spans sensor networks peer-to-peer networks distributed systems and algorithms He has published extensively in these areas including number of journal articles conference papers and book chapters and serves many conferences and journals He received PhD from Illinois Institute of Technology MS and BS degree from Nanjing University of Science  Technology He is a member of the AGU IEEE and ACM Renjie Huang is an PhD student in computer science from Washington State University His research interest mainly focuses communication scheduling and optimization in wireless sensor network He received his B.S degree from South China University of Science  Technology and received his Master degree from Huazhong University of Science  Technology Mingsen Xu is a PhD student in computer science from Washington State University Vancouver He currently is a research assistant of sensorweb research laboratory His research interest focuses on data correlation and reduction on sensor networks He received his MS and BS degree from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications Behrooz A Shirazi s the Huie-Rogers Chair Professor and Director of the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science His research interests are in the areas of pervasive computing software tools distributed real-time systems scheduling and load balancing and parallel and distributed systems He has received grant support totaling more than 8 million dollars from federal agencies including NSF DARPA and AFOSR and private sources including Texas Instruments and Mercury Computer Systems He has received numerous teaching and research awards He is currently the Editor-inChief for Special Issues for Pervasive and Mobile Computing Journal and has served on the editorial boards of the IEEE's Transactions on Computers and Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing 10 
 


  Picture 6 PCS layout with virtual infrastructure and SAN  The second very important step was the installation and commissioning of a Storage Area Network SAN\, because only a network storage enables to make use of virtualization infrastructure features such as failover. This is due to the fact that virtual machine disk files may not exist on a certain host, as in case of failure it would not be accessible and available any longer to be restarted on a different physical host  SANs are either based on Fibre Channel or iSCSI Technology. The idea of both technologies is to extend the \(usually\nal data lines between hard disk controllers and hard-disks to external devices Fibre Channel has been a proven technology for this type application for years. It has a slightly better performance, but is more expensive than iSCSI iSCSI stands for Internet Small Computer System Interface It  means encapsulation  of the SCSI protocol within TCP/IP packages. Today iSCSI delivers sufficient performance to build up SANs for process automation purposes at a cement works  In such an arrangement, from a failure point of view, the SAN is the most critical peace of hardware in virtualized computer architecture  Although SANs are built up internally fail safe \(redundant power supply, NICs, hard disk controllers,\205 and data sheets give impressive figures for availability, any concept for process control purposes should allow for setting up auto-synchronizing SANs at different spots  User interface VMs running on a host are comparable to applications running on a Terminal Server. In other words, VMs obviously need input and output devices to be handled. Fat clients \(PC\222s\o good choice if it is intended to simplify the maintenance of the process control system hardware. Moreover, they are costly and sometimes prone to error Another step forward -with limited risk only- was to replace some operator stations of a segment by Thin Clients without hard disk The connection between thin client and VM is either done by vendor specific client software, RDP or VNC  Obstacles Minor issues may occur while transferring physical control systems into virtual ones Most of the problems the reference plant encountered had to do with the hardware interfaces such as serial and parallel ports and multi-media features  


Unresolved points \(minor\are to date realizing failover with legacy interfaces and sound output with Windows NT guests   CONCLUSION  Virtualization is no new but a revitalized technol ogy. First virtualization solutions \(purely based on software\ell as computer emulation deliver poor results in terms of performance  Hardware supported virtualization and pure software virtualization are totally different approaches  Virtualization today is most powerful when it combines the strengths of the different technologies. CPU demanding applications are wasting less performance than memory-intense application. \(TLB miss costs  VMware ESX is a good example of this. ESX uses Para-virtualized drivers for the most critical I/O components \(but not for the CPU\, emulation for the le ss important I/O and Binary Translation in order to avoid the high "trap and emulate" performance penalty. In this way, virtualized applications perform quite well, in some cases almost as if th ere were no extra VMM layer involved  The user benefit of virtualization is manifold. Virtualization 225  decouples software from hardware \(provides availability for \223legacy platforms\224, enables software in a cloud 225  utilizes installed hardware more efficient 225  safes space, energy, and invest cost 225  eases system administration extensively  225  but requires additional know-how of system administrators  At this point in time we can say that virtualization has met all of our expectations and offered \226in particular with respect to system administration- even more. The number of plants that started using Virtualization is growing  The process automation staff is still on a learning curve with virtualization in order to take maximum benefit of this technology  Unexploited potential is likely to be found in the field of setting up systems, handling of back-ups and disaster recovery procedures     REFERENCES  200  K. Lawton, Running muliple operating systems concurrently on an IA32 PC using virtualization techniques,http://plex86.org/research/paper.txt 200 www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/001029.html 200 it.anandtech.com 200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_virtualization 200  Virtualization for dummies SUN and AMD special edition 200 www.intel.com/technology/virtualizatio n/technology.htm?iid=tech_vt+tech 200  2008 Automation Summit - ID#: 1474 - Dow Chemical R&D\222s Global Rollout of PCS7\256 Using VMWare\256, Chicago    200 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_\(computer_security 


  13 edge of the aperture.  The distance of the reflected beam from the center of the aperture is then used to calculate I  which varies from about -0.8\260 to +0.8\260 in the experiment Figures 24-28 show the change r I    found by taking the difference of the center of each spectral image and subtracting from its location when I and compared the modeled values over the same range of I Figure 23 illustrates that there is some amount of random error in these measurements, but overa ll the data is grouped around r 0 pixel difference between the measured and modeled values.  The 404.7nm source shows the most variation  Figure 23 \226 The difference in pixel displacement at the detector array between measurements from modeled and collected data as a function of I     Figure 24 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 404.7nm spectral line   Figure 25 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 435.8nm spectral line   Figure 26 \226 Measured and modeled r   p or the 546nm spectral line   Figure 27 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 577.5nm spectral line   Figure 28 \226 Measured and modeled r   p  for the 635nm spectral line   Given that the model is able to predict the displacement of energy as a result of an error in p   due to incident angle data was collected similar to that with the tilted camera to examine the effect system atic error due to unknown I  caused by a misaligned prism Here, the prism was angled in the mount in two directions to create the angles x and y  between the prism face and the normal to the optical axis as shown in Fig. 10.  The mo unt itself was tilted in two directions to create the misalignment angles x and y as shown in Fig. 12.  The magnitudes of these angles were measured by a laser as described above.  The aperture was placed such that each mm of separation at the aperture equates to 0.25\260 of angle at th e prism.  Misalignment in the instrument was used that gave values x  0.5\260 y  0.5\260 x 0.75\260 and y  0.5\260 with the instrument design again limiting the amount of error that could be imparted  The r   p  expression from Equation 17 will be compared to see how the displacement of each of the 5 wavelengths as a function of rotation angle varies given the different I  due to misalignment as the prism rotates.  The estimation in 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 r from model \(pixels I degrees 404.7nm 435.8nm 546nm 578nm 635nm 400 390 380 370 360 350 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 404 nm, measured 404 nm, modeled 258 255 252 249 246 243 240 237 234 231 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 435 nm, measured 435 nm, modeled 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 546 nm, measured 546 nm, modeled 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 578 nm, measured 578 nm, modeled 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 0 90 180 270 360 r   p pixels p degrees 635 nm, measured 635 nm, modeled 


  14 error for angles and is +/-0.2\260 and is incorporated into the model prediction.  Results are shown in Figures 24-29  Here, the measured data match the overall trends of the model very well, with some slight offset of about 2 pixels in each of the r   p  comparisons.  This would lead to the assumption that the estimate of x is not accurate, but is likely not the case since the mean of the model is too high in the 404nm data, and too low in the 435nm data.  This indicates that there are other errors being observed, as again it is nearly impossible to lim it the measurement to error in the intended so urce.  Also, note the decrease in impact the rotation error has as wavelength increases.  This is due to the lowered bearing P has on p as shown in the previous section.  However, the error magnitudes are a ratio of the distance from the undeviated wavelength, and in this data set are large due the large fractional error of and   4  R ESULTS  The systematic errors in a CTI instrument affect the spectral and spatial resolutions and locations in the reconstructed hyperspectral data cube in similar ways that these errors would affect the results of a traditional prism spectrograph This would be expected since the 3-D data is constructed from 2-D projection data.  The CTI becomes much more sensitive to error dependent on how the error kernel in the reconstruction behaves as a function of the prism rotation angle p and degree of freedom not in a fixed element dispersion system.  Four type s of systematic error were examined in this study; those due to tilt in the detector array  between the det ector array and the lens L 3  d   error in knowledge of the angular prism dispersion p    and error in estimation of the prism rotation angle p   s that can be inse rted into the error kernel functions were developed for each to model the effects For reasonably large array tilts of up to 3\260 and error in distance of up to 2mm, only a slightly noticeable shift of less than a pixel in spatial location was observed, mostly dependent on the tilt angle.  A more substantial spectral peak shift resulted which was due to error in distance, with a 7nm shift seen at the longer wavelengths at d  2mm.  The spatial and spectral resolu tions remained virtually unchanged, indicating that an accurate construction occurs in a shifted location The dispersion angle can be in error due to faulty estimation of prism performance.  This w ill cause an apparent shift of spectral peaks as shown in Figu re 8.  A more complicated  is the result of its dependence on the incident angle to the prism face I This is caused by mi salignment of the prism in the mount, or misalignment of the mount itself.  Mount misalignment is similar to cons tant error in estimation of p   with a shift in spectral p eaks observed.  For the AFIT CTI, this shift is only a few nm per 1\260 of misalignment Mount misalignment produces a more complex error kernel as shift and loss of resolutio n occur for relatively smaller angular errors.  More impor tantly, the spectral peaks become split into two peaks for errors of total misalignment in both the x and y directions of 1\260.  The spectral resolution may be recovered if the entire spatial area of the image is integrated.  However, simila r to splitting of peaks, the spatial distribution is a donut shape in the bin of emission  Finally, the error in projection angle p was examined though in a more obligatory fa shion since it is a relative error \(i.e. not a systematic erro r necessarily, but an error in choice of the reference coordinate system\.  There is no shifting of spectral peaks or lo ss of spectral resolution however there is a circular displacement of the spatial image again causing donut shap es for large enough   Most importantly, the error mode l was verified by collecting measured data from the AFIT CTI instrument with systematic error intentionally created in the instrument to assess the effect.  While in some cases it was apparent that sources of error other than those being investigated were influencing the results, the data did match the model for the situations where th e studied error effect was dominant usually at higher angular dispersi on, or spectral resolution Further investigation of some error may be necessary, as our CTI system design could only support a certain degree of component alteration to assess er ror.  In some cases, due to sampling of the detector array w ith respect to the size of the PSF of the system, slight changes in performance caused by error could not be resolved  4  C ONCLUSIONS  The purpose of this study wa s to assess the effect of systematic error on the reconstr ucted data sets collected by a rotating prism CTI instrument While the results are specific to the AFIT CTI desi gn, it is intended that the relative magnitude of each error and result on the reconstructed data will apply to any set of data given the general nature of the equations describing the reconstruction and error kernel that is con volved with each spectral bin  The consequence of each systematic error was quantified by the shift in spectral and/or spatial location, and degradation of spectral and/or spatial reso lution.  Table 2 summarizes the contribution of each analy zed error to these quantities   Table 2 \226The effect of systematic error.  An \223x\224 indicates an effect exists, a \223-\223 indicates no effect is observed   


  15 The model of the system allows for a quick assessment of the error, and provides a more illustrative demonstration of the prism misalignment error an d how each spectral peak is affected differently.  Figure 29 shows how the spectral peak changes as the prism mount alignment is increased in both the x and y directions for the 400nm and the 450nm spectral peaks   Figure 29 \226 The 400nm and 450nm peak shapes with varying misalignment of the prism mount   Similarly, Figure 30 represents the situation where the prism mount misalignment is constant at x  y 0.5\260 but the misalignment of the prism in the mount is changing so that a constant shape is produced, but shifted as x increases   Figure 30\226 Shifting of the 400nm spectral peak as x  increases.  The shape remains the same as the misalignment of the mount is constant   Though presented independently, the obvious contribution of the errors of the system are cumulative and must be considered in total.  Given th e great number of variations possible, this was not attempted here, but can be done based on the mathematics  This study is intended to explore the effect of systematic error for the purpose of examining sensitivity of performance when designing th e instrument.  In practice the reconstruction of collected data is done using after calibration of the instrument to directly measure r  p   without regard for the sources of error.  While this measurement can be a diagnostic of the instrument, the fact that it is well known is enough to perform acceptable reconstructions.  If instrume nt components are accessible the diagnostics be used to correct for second order error created in the instrument.  For example, errors in distance to the focal plane or tilt also result in a defocus error which cannot be easily recovered in the reconstruction algorithm R EFERENCES  1  C G r o s s, G  P. Perram an d R. F. Tu ttle, \223Mo d el i n g  infrared spectral intensity data from bomb detonations\224 Proceedings of SPIE  5881 p. 100 \(2005  2 o oney, \223A ngu l arly Mu ltip lex ed  Sp ectral Im ag er\224 Proceedings of SPIE  2480 pp. 65\22677, 1995   a ster, \223De sign and M o del Verification of an Infrared Chromotomographic Imaging System.\224 AFIT Masters Thesis, 2004  4 bb ins D  J. Go dfrey 223D ig ital x-ray tomosynthesis: current state of the art and clinical potential\224 Phys Med. Biol 48, pp. R65-R106, 2003   R.A Br oo ks an d G Di Chi r o 223Pri nci p l e s o f Com p u t er Assisted Tomography \(CAT\n Radiographic and Radioisotopic Imaging\224 Phys. Med. Biol  21 No. 5, pp 689-732, 1976  6 R.L. Bostick, G.P. Perr am, \223Hyperspectral Imaging Using Chromotomography: A Fieldable Visible Instrument for Transient Events\224 International Journal of High Speed Electronics and Systems  18 no. 3, pp. 519\226529, 2008  7 Bo stick   G  P.Perram an d R.F.Tu tt le 223Characterization of spatial and spectral resolution of a rotating prism chromotomographic hyperspectral imager\224 Proceedings of the SPIE  Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies II Conference, April 2009  B IOGRAPHY  Randy Bostick is a part-time PhD student at AFIT developing a metrology for a rotating prism chromotomographic imaging system.  Mr. Bostick is employed full time at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base as an intelligence analyst for national remote sensing assets  


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





