Aligning Service Maps - A Methodological Approach from the Financial Industry   Falk Kohlmann University of Leipzig Marschnerstrasse 31 04109 Leipzig, Germany Kohlmann}@wifa.uni-leipzig.de  Rainer Alt University of Leipzig Marschnerstrasse 31 04109 Leipzig, Germany rainer.alt}@uni-leipzig.de   Abstract Service-orientation is commonly recognized as an important enabler for improved efficiency and 
flexibility of transformation processes in business. The ability to flexibly bundle heterogeneous services in a homogeneous cross-organizational business process is a key requirement. Shared service models may be one approach to overcome the restrictions of existing approaches which are either business process centric or application centric. Nevertheless applying different design approaches increases the risk of the emergence of service-oriented-architectures \(SOA\mplying heterogeneous service maps. Especially the design of service maps on different layers leads to significant integration efforts in practice. This paper presents an approach how service maps that differ in scope 
granularity and design may be integrated. A case of a Swiss bank has been chosen to demonstrate the applicability of the suggested model    1  Introduction  1.1  Motivation  Service-orientated architecture \(SOA\as been in debate for several years as it promises from a technological view the integration of heterogeneous application environments. From a business view it promises a more flexible allocation of business activities, represented as services, among business 
partners in a value chain. In order to reach the claim of Steen et al. that SOA provides better handles for architectural alignment and business and IT alignment in particular  A com b in i n g t h e bu s i n e s s a n d  technological perspective may be one solution to the challenges in several industries. Many contributions and discussions focus on either side the design of services as key requirement for implementing any SOA. However no unified approach for service design has been reached ye d th e application o f  
different procedure models for service identification and design may lead to different sets of services Service maps structure these services along with their relationships and dependencies. Existing approaches suggest top-down [22 o ttom u p 26, 36   or meet-in-the-mi t rateg ies  ai m i ng at  different granularity levels and solving various integration goals. Hence the risk of the emergence of heterogeneous service maps is increased \(cf figure 1  Standard software providers design specific and fine 
granular services \(e.g GetLoanAgreement may represent one service\n order to construct their applications on a modular basis. Concurrently the affiliated banks are \(re\ning their functional models by identifying and specifying services on high granularity to serve standardization efforts in business processes and to provide a bank-wide functional reference \(e.g. customer rating may be one service Hence service maps on different granularity levels are necessary as they solve different objectives supporting the analysis and design of business models 
providing a comprehensive understanding between IT and business or reducing integration costs of applications. Challenges occur when banks implement the applications from these standard software providers and need to integrate their service map with the services offered by the provider \(cf figure 1 s both sides are using different origins, goals and granularities a formalized procedure is needed to integrate and match the different service maps But even though SOA is in debate for several years a methodological approach combining business and 
technological perspective while addressing the integration of service maps on different granularity levels or domains has not been developed yet. Existing frameworks from Zachma a pg e m i n i 7 address the Business/IT Alignment, but don t incorporate the formalized association of service maps with business-oriented services, which are not Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


described using common ontologies like OWL. This paper proposes a procedure how different service maps may be integrated from a business context   Figure 1. Risk of the emergence of heterogeneous service maps  Another challenge in the financial industry is the business transformation with its inter-organizational business processes. Business transformation is currently expressed in the financial industry by the integration of applications and the networking among companies \(business networking\. Contrary to other industries such as the automotive industry most European banks developed proprietary applications over the last decades. This resulted in complex heterogeneous and monolithic application landscapes with numerous proprietary interfaces and an increased total cost of ownershi s s t ated in  sev e ral  interviews with bank representatives during our research, many banks therefore aim at introducing standardized application architectures which may be maintained on a modular basis from a third party. The bank of the future will not only seek differentiation via an extended service offering but additionally via decreased vertical integration h eref ore m a ny banks are in the process of \(re\ining their core competencies d d e v e loping n e w   m o re  networked business models [1, 14 am pl es  w oul d be Vontobel, a Swiss private bank expanding their portfolio by offering securities processing or Swissquote which centralizes access to \(non electronic exchanges as a broker. Tapping the potentials of specialization effects in business networks is necessary in order to cope with increased competition, customer expectations and changing markets T h e  industrialization of the finance industry as well as the emergence and redesign of networks is currently in progress and requires adequate and business aligned application architectures to manage the growing complexity S w i t zerlan d e.g  t h ree n e t w orks emerged, grouped around the software providers for core-banking applications Finnova, Avaloq and RTC Real-Time-Center\d were initiated by Swiss cantonal banks o n c ern i ng t h es e bus in e s s transformations the financial industry and the case of one Swiss bank serves to motivate and demonstrate the applicability of the suggested model  1.2  Methodology and Structure  By elaborating a methodology/architecture this research adopts a design science approach d  presents results which have been elaborated in a multilateral, two-year research program that started in summer 2006 focusing on the management of serviceoriented networks in the banking industry. The research team consists of academics from two universities as well as practitioners from 18 companies covering the whole banking value chain \(e.g. retail and private banks, outsourcing and software providers The companies contribute to the research following the paradigm of emphasizing collaboration between researchers and practitioners  p.9 5  pla y ing a n  active role in biannual steering committee meetings and quarterly workshops to ultimately enhance the development of the envisioned methodology as well as to verify its applicability. Hence the guidelines proposed by Hevner et al. [15 w e re applied in orde r to  ensure a structured collaboration with the practitioners and an iterative approach developing the artifacts This research paper focuses so far on a procedure to integrate two service maps providing a static structure to describe and visualize services on different granularity levels. The activities are exemplified by using an example from the loans entry domain as part of a project at a Swiss bank. The single case study is based upon the recommendations elaborated by Dub  u re t h e ri g o r in ca s e res earc h T h e central research question concerning the case study focuses on the applicability of the procedure to integrate service maps of diverse granularity in a heterogeneous environment. As data source direct observation in combination with structured interviews supplemented by the documentation of the project was used The structure of the paper reflects its goals   Section 2 provides the theoretical foundation   Section 3 presents an approach for linking different service maps varying in scope and granularity Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  Section 4 applies the approach to the financial industry domain using the case study of a Swiss bank   Section 5 summarizes the results and provides an outlook  2  Foundation    2.1  Enterprise Architecture  Existing enterprise architecture \(EA\ approaches  o cu s i ng on proces s e s  obj ectiv es a n d  organizational structures and deduce business requirements for systems design lacking in terms of cross-enterprise processes and business networking EA is aiming at integrating and consolidating different modeling techniques, models and tools already existing in companies 13 A N S I IEEE [17 is def i n i ng EA as the organization of a system implying its components, relationships and governance structures Lankhorst et. al. are broadening this definition by incorporating information systems and infrastructure  3 f r a m e w or k s pro v i de Meta m odels des i g n  methods, common vocabulary and reference models Fischer et al  i ng  th e co m p le x i t y  by enumerating various business and IT related artifacts. In summary, most of the EA frameworks differentiate five layers: business architecture, process architecture, integration architecture, software architecture and technology architecture  2.2  Service-Oriented Architecture  SOA is recognized as an important concept for business transformation and is discussed from a technological and a business perspective. The technical view conceives SOA as a paradigm that supports modularized exposure of existing application functionality to other applications as services   p.41\. On a broader scope it can be defined as the policies, practices, frameworks that enable application functionality to be provided and consumed as sets of services published at a granularity relevant to the service consumer  5f f   e rviceorientation from a business view denotes the ability of reusing tasks and processes by solving them at one location  p 236  O A pres e n t s i t s e lf a s a s u itable option for improving the integration of heterogeneous application environments as well as the sourcing of entire or fractional business processes in a business network. The services, core elements of any SOA, are modelled in general by two approaches: technicaldriven \(bottom-up\d business-driven \(top-down supplemented by a third: meet-in-the-middle. The topdown identification of services is based upon business processes or business events while applying widespread design principles of SOA \(e.g  Bottom-up refers to service modelling based upon the analysis of existing applications and their IS functionality [26 fo c u si ng o n c o nso l i d a t i ng a n d  rationalizing access to IS functionality by using services. For a combination of bottom-up and topdown, the term meet-in-the-middle can be used [2, 22  Since numerous classification schemes for services as part of a SOA have emerged [5, 9 d a  consolidated classification scheme is missing \(s p.756\is paper differentiates business services application services and IT services. Business services are described as representation of a specific business activity and transaction. Coexistent the terms process services t e n t a n d tran s actio n s e r v ices 28] or task services f   e e m erg e d. Moreov er composed business services combine other usually finer grained business services of logical and functional proximity. The objective is to provide a user oriented perspective in a business model design scenario. Application services are focusing on independently usable and elaborately specified functional components. In practice and theory also the terms integration serv tit y serv ice s [9] are  used. IT services finally represent reusable basic functionalities and are out of scope within this paper as they are not covering domain specific functionalities  2.3  Service-Orientation and EA  Following Winter et al. the integration architecture represents the fundamental organization of information system components in the relevant enterprise context   ov ides t h e f oun dati on f o r al ign i n g bus in e s s and IT as aimed by SOA. The integration architecture will be regarded therefore in this paper as the SOA representing the service model or service layer As the presented approach is focusing on the integration of business and technological perspectives and substantiating design potentials of network and sourcing models, the Business Engineering Model  see  a s been chos en a m o n g ot h e r la y e r  approaches such as f o u n d atio n  prov iding consistency across three layers: strategy, process and system aiming at the business model, the process model and the IS model. In terms of EA the IS model combines the software and technology architecture The service model representing the SOA layer can be regarded as intermediate layer covering aspects from the process and the IS model \(see figure 2  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 Figure 2.  Cross-model view of artifacts  3  Towards Integrated Service Architecture  This section outlines a first proposition of a procedure to integrate service maps covering different granularity levels based upon different design methods The analysis of different procedures models as presen dicated on on e s i de th e n eed f o r an extended hybrid approach taking sourcing models and legal requirements into account while simultaneously linking the used instruments to instruments on other layers such as the network model. On the other side the analysis signified that service maps can vary when different service identification methods are used Service maps are regarded as instrument to structure services by visualizing them within a specific domain Furthermore they can be used to exemplify relationships and dependencies. To prevent often suspected complexity especially in cross-boundary value chains and to contribute to the objectives of EA these different service maps need to be integrated by taking into account that the functionality and interfaces of business services are usually not described in technological concepts such as WSDL. Where the semantics of the services are not expressed using topic maps and ontologies \(e.g. OWL\ as proposed in several models es e approach es can t be applied. The approaches using ontologies are aiming at dynamic service integration at runtime, whereas the procedure proposed in this paper will be used for integration at design time. Moreover a procedure for integrating industry-specific service maps would contribute to the standardization efforts, e.g. currently made in the financial industry domain The proposed procedure, shown in figure 3  consists of four phases covering preparation, analysis verification and detailing. The differentiation of the four phases follows common classifications \(e.g. [2  d h a s bee n  v e ri f i ed i n  w o r k sh ops a n d interviews. Part of the preparation phase is the comparison of the underlying elements of the two service maps in order to reach a comprehensive understanding. The comparison is based upon the Meta models of the service maps and result in an assumed linkage. Following Gehlert [13 th ree ty p e s o f  comparison conflicts can occur: structural, naming and type conflicts. Structural conflicts arise from different levels of abstraction. Naming conflicts represent synonym and homonym terms. Type conflicts occur by using different constructs of the modelling language for the same fact. The type conflict can be resolved automatically based upon manual inputs preliminarily Furthermore rules as derived in plied  describing the requirements of the Meta models for a comparison One of the regarded service maps is on a high granularity covering business services focusing on the collaboration in business. It can be summarized as a service map with a clear business view representing the service orientation on a business level close to business processes and network model and will be referred to as business service map Composed business services such as rating, transaction checking or booking are providing the highest granularity within such a service map and can be assigned to certain business roles, such as integrator \(e.g. in the investment domain it can be compared to a broker, which centralizes access to exchanges like Swissquote in Switzerland\, sales bank or back office specialist \(e.g. payments processing offered by PostFinance in Switzerland\he second service map covers a finer granularity focusing on application services, still with a focus on domain specific functionalities, e.g. differentiating numerous services to manage a business partner. As the business service map is used to substantiate the analysis and design of financial networks, business models and sourcing alternatives, providing therefore a useroriented view, the second service map focuses on the realisation still being technology independent A further step in the preparation is the linkage towards further models such as a network model describing the different business roles of a network, the process model of the business processes, the as-are or to-be sourcing models as well as an application model exemplifying the active application landscape Furthermore the service catalogues underlying the two service maps have to be consolidated providing the basis for the integration as well as the linkage between the two service maps. For that reason a scheme of criteria such as functional result, functional requirements, addressed business objects, input and output, organizational responsibility as well as dependencies of the services has to be reached, taking company specific requirements into account Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 Figure 3.  Procedure for integrating service maps on different granularity levels  Based upon the criteria scheme the information for selected business services and application services have to be gathered in the analysis phase using the service specification provided by the service catalogue Based upon a representative selection of services a comparison can be made in order to reach a first indication how the services are linked \(similar to prototyping in the software engineering process Following this approach, it s supported to differentiate various service types within the categories business and application service. After allocating the application towards the business services a top-down and bottomup verification similar to the mentioned service design strategies has to be made in the verification phase. The top-down verification focuses on the consistency from a business point of view, whereas the bottom-up verification concentrates on the technical and implementation aspects. The fourth phase detailing of the proposed procedure seeks to generalize the founded linkage of the two service maps. The application is again followed by a top-down and bottom-up verification in order to verify the generalizability Subsequently the assumed Meta model connections have to be updated if necessary and documented. Three results are possible   a documented linkage between the Meta models   an unified core representing the intersection of the Meta models   an unified Meta model Building a unified service map is an optional step afterwards as interviews with practitioners have indicated that a documented linkage scheme would meet the requirements in practice and an unified service map provides additional efforts if services are changed or further added especially if the service maps are developed by external providers   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


4  Application of the Proposed Procedure  4.1  Application at two initiatives  This section focuses on the instantiation of the proposed procedure to a concrete scenario in the finance industry. The procedure will be applied to a service map \(see figure 4 rom our research program focusing on the support of the design of financial networks, being therefore on a high granularity level The service map limits to the transaction specific parts of a bank and elides functionalities like human resources, controlling. It exemplifies the composition of business services. These composed business services can directly be associated to a certain business role in a financial network, such as a rating or digitalization specialist substantiating analytic and design approaches for business network redesign. The second service map \(see figure 5 represents an approach from the BIAN \(Banking Industry Architecture Network\ering also industry specific business functionalities, however on a finer granularity with a very detailed specification as prerequisite for implementation e.g. in a core banking system such as SAP, Finnova or Avaloq. BIAN replaces the IVN Industry Value Network\ for banks  Figure 4.  Service map covering composed business services for the financial industry   Figure 5.  Service map covering application services for the financial indu  The reduced service map shown in figure 4 focuses on the exemplification of the composed business services, which encompass 90 business services, such as pricing rule service, foreign currency supply service or routing service. Banking-specific business rules with high complexity and high alteration rates are encapsulated in particular business services. The objective of the service map is to provide a substantial Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


support for analyzing and optimizing network positions and sourcing relationships. Furthermore it provides an internal linkage between business and IT via application services. Additionally the reduced service map, shown in figure 5 focuses on business functionalities on a finer granular level. The aim is to further enhance standardization efforts in the finance industry by providing standardized domain specific application services, which can be implemented by providers or banks. For its application services the BIAN is using the term service operations To provide some structure these service operations are linked within sub domains shown in figure 5 The 52 sub domains, shown in figure 5 contain to this date about 120 service operations verified with more than 30 banks involved in the BIAN. As the service map is still in progress it will reach some hundred service operations, such as CreateLoanContract ManageBusinessPartnerRole, QuoteCreateFXDeal and CheckLegitimatingControl for the finance industry Due to space restrictions loans entry was chosen to apply the proposed approach \(cf section 3 oans entry is represented by one composed business service see figure 4 which contains 15 business services Three business services were chosen to exemplify the linkage to the service operations \(application services of the second service map \(cf figure 7    Figure 6.  Concerted Meta model elements Before, the Meta model comparison of the two service maps is summarized. First, all the concerted elements were identified and extracted together with the associated parts. Second, the structural and naming conflicts were resolved by analyzing the description of the elements complemented by expert interviews. The semantic differences of the elements were documented as input for the next phases. By that time a first linkage scheme was resolved as a combined Meta model visualizing solely the concerted elements \(cf figure 6  A composed business service consists of several business services. Simultaneously one business service may be implied in several composed business services as they are used for analytical objectives and external offerings \(e.g. as in the case of the mentioned private bank Vontobel offering securities execution as composed business service to other banks\he business service uses several application services. The second Meta model covers the term service operation which is a semantically coherent set of functionalities provided by a logical IT system to be consumed by other logical IT systems  T h e term s e r v ice  operation covers scope and granularity of the term application service in the first Meta model providing the central linkage The variation in the abstraction level on the organizational layer between the two Meta models can coexist by supporting the different intentions analytical support for business network redesign on one side and enhanced standardization to lower integration costs on the other side. The linkage of the two Meta models was documented but did not result in a unified Meta model. Reasons are unnecessary dependencies and long update cycles of a core Meta model in practice. Instead the transformation rules were formalized Following the Meta model comparison the service catalogues were harmonized and criteria extracted to describe business services and service operations Applying the next steps in the proposed procedure the business services were reassembled by a set of service operations Figure 7 exemplifies the linkage for three business services: authorization, loans data and partner master data. The loans data business service e.g Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


incorporates the functionalities provided by the five service operations Get Loan Agreement  Close Loan Agreement  Change Loan Contract Partner Assignment  Change Organizational Assignment and Change Loan Borrower encapsulated in the business sub domain loan maintenance of the second service map. The business service partner master data covers service operations from three business sub domains with more than ten service operations   Figure 7.  Application to loans entry domain A further advantage for both projects is the implicit verification of functional completeness. The integration of the two service maps indicates missing service operations. Simultaneously the business services receive a deepening towards the IS-layer Especially enterprises from the banking industry participating in both initiatives benefit from the analysis and the formalized procedure  4.2  Case of a Swiss bank  The proposed procedure has been applied to a Swiss bank, which aims to develop a bank-wide service model. Services are seen as a possibility for cost and complexity reduction, integration of the existing heterogeneous application landscapes standardization and enhancement of more individual pricing models The objective of the project was the development of a service model representing business services and being the basis for the realization of the described functionalities into technical services. The intention of the service model is to ensure a comprehensive understanding between IT and business of the functionalities and to provide a bank-wide reference blueprint\rthermore the service model is used as basis for a to-be IT-architecture. Simultaneously the service model facilitates the identification of redundancies in existing applications and processes Not-used but maintained functions can be identified as well and would lead to cost reduction. It s seen as an opportunity to increase standardization and to align existing architectures and models As the bank has access to both initiatives besides their own service design activities, it was chosen to analyze a possible integration. The characteristics and goals of the project were: to encapsulate all business functionalities in business services; to consider variations in financial instruments and channels; to leverage from the specified business services of the research project and to ensure that the business services can be assembled by the service operations of the BIAN. Following this characteristics and considering the general conditions some challenges appeared \(cf table 1 which were partly covered by the original procedure  Table 1: recognized challenges in aligning service maps challenges description Incompleteness of the service maps The definition of the service operations at BIAN is still ongoing and therefore several business functionalities couldn t be underlined by service operations. The business service map is focusing on the transaction specific services solely by now Terminology The terminology of the Meta-models of the two service maps had to be linked to the existing Metamodel of the Swiss bank. Therefore the identified concerted elements \(cf. figure 6\ had to be adjusted to the elements of the Meta-model in the method guidelines of the bank Enhanced Alignment Besides the integration of the two service maps, an integration and alignment to existing process and business object models was necessary Existing basic service model A first effort to specify a service model was made previously by the bank, but didn t match the objectives above as it was focusing on the application-oriented service identification Therefore, besides the integration of the two service maps \(cf section 4.1 this service map had to be taken into account: alignment of 2 + 1 service maps  As the service model had to provide business services for all existing functionalities in the bank the business services of the input service map needed to be extended and not solely aligned with the service operations. Therefore the procedure, presented in this paper, was supplemented by a service identification methodology. Subsequent the further identified business services were aligned with the service operations according the proposed procedure. The 90 business services were enhanced and the service model in the Swiss bank reached about 150 business services in total. The described linkage of the Meta-models in section 4.1 could be verified. Simultaneously the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


adoption of the proposed procedure could formalize the alignment of the 2 + 1 service maps and resulted in reduced efforts and higher credibility of the service model within the Swiss bank The consolidated service catalogue covers among others the criteria: description, process connection associated service operations, composed business services, ownership, associated applications, aimed service quality Table 2 provides some lessons learned from the project. A next step is the anchoring of the described procedure in the Swiss bank as part of their methodknowledge  Table 2: lessons learned in aligning service maps The unification of the underlying Meta-models eases the matching procedure and reduces efforts The application of broadly discussed and specified services prevents from encapsulating functional ities solely on the basis of as-is processes and/or applications and enhances the development of to-be models The integration procedure can contribute to verify the services itself as well as the completeness of the service map. E.g. a 80 assembling-rate of a business service calculate customer rating by service operations indicates further service operations The establishment of a functional SOA by integrating the two service maps is the basis for the enhancement of the existing business object models and business process landscapes  5  Summary and Outlook  As Swiss banks aim to redesign their application landscapes for more standardization and modularization in order to fulfill current challenges such as reduced customer loyalty and globalization \(cf section 1 open architecture with exchangeable business partners is important, but still in its infancy Currently, sourcing offerings and networks often rely on proprietary interfaces. Though service orientation may be used as an instrument, there is a lack of methodologies of combining and integrating service maps reached by different approaches. Only by providing a consistent service architecture, which even may rely on services standardized by numerous banks and providers, the goal of enhancing flexibility and efficiency can be reached  Based on existing analysis such as approach  for integrating existing service maps has not been reached yet \(cf section 2 s a holistic approach for service identification is lacking as well, the possibility of dealing with different service maps in-house and from external providers is increasing. Simultaneously increased business networking and value chain decomposition in the financial industry lead to a growing amount of business partners requiring standardized interfaces and exchangeable services This paper presented a first approach \(cf section 3  how service maps of different granularity levels may be integrated to reach consistent service architecture The procedure has been applied to a concrete scenario cf section 4 based upon a service map covering business services from a research project and a service map covering application services from the BIAN. It has shown how service maps from independent initiatives can be linked in order to increase credibility verification and therefore standardization Section 4.2  then related it to the case of a Swiss bank developing a service model by applying the procedure in order to integrate a basic in-house service map with the two service maps analyzed in section 4.1 The bank benefited from services already discussed with numerous practitioners and verified in workshops and interviews The formalized procedure is a first step of the research on the way to a more automated integration of service maps covering business services, designed by banks and providers \(cf figure 8    Figure 8.  Research stack in aligning service maps Further research will focus on the integration of the proposed procedure in existing BPM-platforms to enhance the integration of different service maps/models. A prototype will verify the practicability of such integration. Secondly our research will analyze how standardized business services can be parameterized in order to achieve different variants These variants would enhance the differentiation of e.g. sales banks without depreciating the benefits of standardized business services  References  1 A lt, R. a nd Sm its, M.: Ne tw ork a b ility of Org a niz a tions  and Business Networks  In ECIS '07: Proceedings of the 15th European Conference on Information Systems  St. Gallen 2007: pp. 119-130 2 A r s a nja n i, A  Se rv ic e orie n te d Mo de lling a n d  Architecture, In IBM DeveloperWorks   2004: pp  Avi s o n  D  et al    A c t i o n Research  In   Communications of the ACM  47 1  1999: pp. 94-97 4 Ba sk e r v ille R., e t a l Ex te nsible A r c h ite c t ure s: T h e  Strategic Value of Service-oriented Architecture in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Banking  In ECIS 05: Proceedings of the 13th European Conference on Information Systems  Regensburg 2005: pp. 761-772 5 Bona ti, B Re g u tz k i J a nd Sc hrote r M  Ente r p ris e  Services Architecture for Financial Services. 2006 Boston: Galileo Press 6 Brink k e m p e r S., Sa e k i M., a n d H a rm s e n, F.: Me ta modelling based assembly techniques for situational method engineering, In Information Systems  24 3  1999: pp. 209-228  Cap g e m i n i ed   A r ch i t ect u r e an d  t h e I n t e grat e d Architecture Framework, 2006 8 Du b  L  an d  P a ré, G  Rig o r i n In f o rm atio n Sy st e m s  Positivist Case Research Current Practices, Trends and Recommendations, In MIS Quarterly  27 4  2003: pp. 597-635  E r l  T   S e rvi ce-Ori e n t ed A r ch i t ect u r e Con cep t s   Technology and Design. 2006, Boston: Prentice Hall 10  Fe rg us on, D  a n d St oc k t on  M.: Se rv ic e orie nte d  Architecture: Programming Model and Product Architecture, In IBM Systems Journal  44 4  2005 pp. 753-780 11  Fis c he r, R Ste pha n, A a n d W i nte r R.: A Fe de ra te d  Approach to Enterprise Architetcure Maintenance  In EMISA '07: Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Enterprise Modelling and Information Systems Architecture St. Goar 2007: pp. 9-22 12  Foe g e n M A r c h ite k t ur un d A r c h ite k t urm a na gem e nt Modellierung von Architekturen und Architekturmanagement in der Softwareorganisation In HMD - Praxis der Wirtschaftsinformatik  40 232  2003: pp. 57-65 1 G e h l ert   A  an d  P f ei ff er D  A  f r a m e w o r k f o r  comparing conceptual models  In Proceedings of the Workshop on Enterprise Modelling and Information Systems Architectures 2005: pp. 108-122 1 G e i g er H an d H rzeler H T h e T r an s f o r m a tio n o f th e  Swiss Private Banking Sector, In Journal of Financial Transformation  9  2003: pp. 93-103 1 Hevn er  A  R  et al   Desi gn S c i e n ce i n In f o rmat i o n Systems Research, In MIS Quarterly  28 1  2004: pp 75-105 16 Hom a nn, U., Rill, M a n d W i m m e r A  Fle x ible V a lue  Structures in Banking, In Communications of the ACM  47 5  2004: pp. 34-36 17 IEEE \(e d c o m m e nde d P r a c tic e  f o r Architectural Description of Software Intensive Systems, IEEE 1471-2000.  2000; Available from http://standards.ieee.org/reading/ieee/std/se/14712000.pdf  18  In d u stry V a lu e Net w o r k  f o r Ban k s e d   N  Metamodel Annotations, 2007, Walldorf 19  In d u stry V a lu e Net w o r k  f o r Ban k s \(ed   ice  Landscape Version 4.2, 2007, Walldorf 20 J a ns s e n, W Ste e n M.W  A a nd Fra n k e n, H  Bus ine s s  Process Engineering versus E-Business Engineering   In HICSS 03: Proceedings of the 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2002: pp 135c 21  K a g e r m a nn, H  a nd s t e r le  H  G e sc h f t sm ode lle  2010. Wie CEOs Unternehmen transformieren. Vol 2nd. 2006, Frankfurt: Frankfurter Allgemeine Buch 2 Kl o s e K  K n ackst e d t  R  a n d Beveru n g en  D    Identification of Servic es - A Stakeholder-Based Approach to SOA Development and its Application in the Area of Production Planning  In ECIS '07 Proceedings of the 15th European Conference on Information Systems St. Gallen 2007: pp. 1802-1814 23  K now le dg e  W h a r ton \(e d Spe c ia l R e port   Unraveling Complexity in Products and Services 2006 Philadelphia: pp. 1-12 24  K ohlm a nn, F.: Se rv ic e Mode lli n g   A Hy brid A pproa c h  In Decomposed Financial Value Chains  In EMISA 07: Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Enterprise Modelling and Information Systems Architecture St. Goar 2007: pp. 205-218 25  L a nk hors t M.: Ente rpr i s e A r c h ite c t ure a t  W o rk 2005   Berlin: Springer 26  N a dha m  E G  Se v e n Ste p s to a Se rv ic e orie nte d  Evolution, In Business Integration Journal   2004: pp 41-44 27   s t e r le H  Bus i ne s s in the Inf o rm a tion A g e  1995   Berlin Springer 28 sterle, H. and Reichm a y r C.: O u ttask ing m it WebServices, In Service-Engineering: Entwicklung und Gestaltung innovativer Dientsleistungen H.J Bullinger and Scheer, A.-W., Editors. 2005, Springer München pp. 567-592 29  P a pa z o g l ou M P  a n d G e org a kopo ul os D  Se rv ic e oriented Computing, In Communications of the ACM  46 10  2003: pp. 25-28 30  SA P  En terp r ise Serv i c es Design G u id e, 2 0 0 5    31 Sprot t, D. a nd W ilk e s  L   U nde rsta nd ing Se rv ic e Oriented Architecture, In The Architecture Journal  January  2004: pp 3 S t een M  W  A et al.: S e rvic e Orien ted E n terp rise  Architecture, In Service-Oriented Software System Engineering: Challenges and Practices Z. Stojanovic and Dahanayake, A., Editors. 2005, IDEA Group. pp 132-154 33 V itv a r T e t a l  Se m a ntic SOA t o  P r om ote Inte g ra tio n  of Heterogeneous B2B Services  In CEC-EEE '07: 9th IEEE International Conference on E-Commerce Technology and 4th IEEE International Conference on Enterprise Computing, E-Commerce and E-Services  2007: pp. 451-456 34 W i nte r R. a nd Fisc he r, R Esse ntia l L a y e rs A r ti f a c t s and Dependencies of Enterprise Architecture, In  Journal of Enterprise Architecture May  2007: pp. 718 35  Zach man n  J.A  A Fra m e w o r k f o r In f o rmatio n  Systems Architecture, In IBM Systems Journal  38 5  1999: pp. 454-470 3 Z h an g Z   L i u  R   and Yan g  H  S e rvi ce Id en t i f i c at i o n  and Packaging in Service-oriented Reengineering  In SEKE '05: Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering 2005: pp. 620-625  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Figure 9. Comparison of estimated Ps to simulated Ps The results show that the estimate can provide a reasonable although inexact, approximation to the simulation. The major benefit of the estimate is its speed. Whereas the VDL simulations took over 2 full days to perform the simulations on a single computer, the same machine was able to estimate the results for all 100 scenarios in less than 3 minutes total. These simulations represent just 100 samples of the infinitely-many combinations of aircraft and ground station locations. The speed of the analytical estimate makes it possible to investigate many more deployment scenarios than would be possible by simulation alone Mixed-Visibility Dynamic Scenario To demonstrate the utility of the estimate, we tested the process for a large dynamic scenario using flight track information for an entire day from 2005. The flight track data included all aircraft within 7 of the 21Air Route Traffic Control Centers \(ARTCCs portion of the United States. VDL ground stations were assumed to exist at 66 FAA locations within these centers Aircraft were assumed to connect to the nearest ground station The flight data was processed in one minute increments Each instance of time was treated as an entirely new set of inputs to the estimate process. Under this approach, there is no memory from one instance to the next Not all aircraft in the data set are used in the analysis. Since we are assuming an en route traffic profile, only aircraft above 16,000 feet and within 200 NM of one of the ground stations are eligible for equipage. Over the course of the day, 22,654 aircraft met the requirements. To account for the fact that not all aircraft will equip with VDL Mode 2 and those that do will likely be distributed over several independent frequencies, only a portion of the eligible aircraft are considered. Aircraft are randomly chosen to be equipped, with all aircraft equally likely to be chosen. In this scenario we tested overall equipage rates between 1 and 10 percent in one percent increments Figure 10. Ps values versus the equipage rate The Ps values were estimated for the entire day for each equipage rate. Figure 10 shows the ranges of Ps ranges where the shades of green represent Ps values of 0.83 or better, yellow represents values between 0.8 and 0.83 9 orange from 0.76 to 0.8, and shades of red below 0.76. The yellow and orange regions fall in the indeterminate region with yellow representing regions where the mean error tends to be above the limit and orange for regions where the mean error is below the limit. The results show that a single channel should support a 5 percent equipage rate, while a 7 percent equipage rate would not meet requirements for all aircraft at all times. With an equipage rates of 6 percent, the estimate produced some Ps values that fall within the indeterminate range Even though the estimate for an equipage rate of 6 percent does not conclusively determine whether or not the channel can support that load, it provides useful information that may be used for further analysis. For example, the plot of the Ps value against time, shown in Figure 11, identifies specific times at which indeterminate estimates of Ps exist These times usually coincide with a peak in the total equipped aircraft. The number and location of aircraft at these peak times can be used to construct simulations to better understand channel performance at these times Additionally, the estimate can identify the aircraft that need to be examined in more detail, reducing the amount of analysis that needs to be performed Figure 11. Ps values for 6 percent equipage rate Simulations created for the peaks at 12:03 PM, 2:04 PM and 5:23PM with a 6 percent equipage rate verified that the Ps values were above the 0.78 limit for Segment 1, and more importantly that the 95th percentile delays for the 


more importantly that the 95th percentile delays for the aircraft were all below the 3.8 second requirement. The mean errors and standard deviations were similar to those from the static scenario tests, verifying that the estimate is providing \(within limits simulations 6. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, an analytical means of estimating the performance of VDL Mode 2 in the presence of hidden transmitters was introduced. Comparison with results from simulation models show that, for the scenario tested, the estimate was able to provide a reasonable, although imperfect, approximation to the simulation over a limited loading range. The advantage of the estimate lies in the fact that results can be computed in several orders of magnitude less time The drawback of the estimate lies in its limitations. It cannot account for variances in the VDL MAC parameters, which were noted in [8] to impact the simulation results. It also cannot account for effects of higher layer protocols such as queuing and packet segmentation. It has also shown to be less accurate under highly loaded conditions, although this is considered to be a minor issue since this occurs outside the useful operating range of our studies The usefulness of the estimate was shown through its application to a dynamic scenario. The ten equipage-rate scenarios evaluated over an entire day \(in one minute increments to provide the same data. The speed at which the estimate is able to calculate the expected results makes it possible to explore more of these dynamic scenarios in a reasonably short period of time. Where are the optimal locations for the ground stations? What happens if certain types of aircraft are more likely to equip than others? What happens if certain airlines equip faster than others? What happens when considering the future projected air traffic growth Future studies will use this process to help answer these questions in order to provide the best possible understanding of the future VDL Mode 2 environment It is important to note that the estimate is not meant to be a complete replacement for the current simulation models when evaluating system performance of VDL Mode 2. It can provide a reasonable first-order estimate to narrow down scenarios that must be investigated further. As demonstrated in the previous section, the estimate was able to provide an approximate capacity, in terms of overall equipage, and identified a few specific times which required simulations for final verification Caution should be used when using this method in scenarios that diverge from the scenario presented. In cases where the traffic profile or VDL operating parameters differ significantly from those used here, the estimate may fail to be a useful model. Further testing of this model is necessary under these varying conditions to bound the limits of its usefulness Future additions are planned for the estimate to more closely reflect effects that are available to the simulation models. A simple power and path loss model will be added to better create the visibility matrix based on the expected received power. This may also be used to implement a basic capture effect, where a frame can still be received in the presence of a relatively weak interfering transmission Airborne co-site interference due to off-channel voice 10 transmissions and additional increases in the vulnerable period due to hardware sensing delays will also be included  APPENDIX A The analyses derived here consider all radios identical i.e having the same transmission rate, message size, view of the network, and even propagation delay to other radios Following this assumption, we can replace matrix D with a 


Following this assumption, we can replace matrix D with a constant propagation delay d and matrix L with constant message length l. We can assume that rtotal is a constant as well. As such, we can define G = N * rtotal * l, where G is defined in messages per unit time and N is the number of radios in the system. We assume a sufficiently large radio population  such that \(N - 1 For the case where all radios are visible to each other, the vulnerable period is two propagation delays. The total transmitted rate is N * rtotal. Since every radio sees every other radio, the channel is commonly blocked for N * rtotal l. To align the equation for a substitution to G, we multiply the entire exponent by the quantity l / l, resulting in         l ld lrN rNP total total s 2 1 exp We note that, in the classical analysis, the quantity d / l is denoted by a. Substituting G and a into the above equation for Ps, and using S = G * Ps, we arrive at the following      G aGGS 1 2exp We can similarly evaluate the case where all interferers are hidden. In this case, the vulnerable period is the length of two messages, or 2l. Since all other radios are hidden, the channel is never commonly blocked      lrNP totals 21 exp Substituting G into the above equation for Ps, and using the equation for S produces  which is the classic formula for the throughput of ALOHA systems [2 REFERENCES 1] Communications Operating Concepts and Requirements for the Future Radio System, Version 2.0 EUROCONTROL / FAA Document 2] Leonard Kleinrock and Fouad A. Tobagi  Packet Switching in Radio Channels: Part I - Carrier Sense Multiple-Access Modes and Their Throughput-Delay Characteristics  IEEE Transactions on Communications Vol. 23, No. 12, December 1975 3] Brian T. Hung  Modeling and Simulation of an Aeronautical CSMA Subnetwork  MITRE Technical Paper, February 2001 


Paper, February 2001 4] Steven C. Bretmersky, Robert W. Murawski, and Vijay K Konangi  Characteristics and Capacity of VDL Mode 2 3, and 4 Subnetworks  Journal of Aerospace Computing Information, and Communication, Vol. 2, November 2005 5] Fouad A. Tobagi and Leonard Kleinrock  Packet Switching in Radio Channels: Part II - The Hidden Terminal Problem in Carrier Sense Multiple-Access and the Busy-Tone Solution  IEEE Transactions on Communications, Vol. 23, No. 12, December 1975 6] Athanasia Tsertou and David I. Laurenson  Revisiting the Hidden Terminal Problem in a CSMA/CA Wireless Network  IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Vol 7, No. 7, July 2008 7] Signal-in-Space Minimum Aviation System Performance Standards for Advanced VHF Digital Data Communications Including Compatibility with Digital Voice Techniques, RTCA Standard DO-224B, August 2005 8] Rafael D. Apaza and Steven C. Bretmersky  Findings of VHF Data Link Mode 2 Analysis  14th Ka and Broadband Communications Conference Proceedings September 24-26, 2008 BIOGRAPHY Steven Bretmersky has been working as a research associate with Cleveland State University \(2002 - present cooperation with the NASA Glenn Research Center, he has supported research of aeronautical communications links with a focus on VDL. He is currently engaged in supporting FAA spectrum assessment studies through modeling and simulation. He  11 holds a BEE from Cleveland State University \(2000 MSEE from Cleveland State University \(2002 Rafael Apaza works for the Federal Aviation Administration specializing in Communications and Surveillance systems \(1987   present 1985 and MSEE \(1994 Wayne State University and a MCIS degree from The University of Michigan \(2001 working with the Federal Aviation Administration Aviation Research &amp; Technology Development Office at the NASA Glenn Research Center Field Office conducting Communications Navigation and Surveillance Research pre></body></html 


Senate  13] Office for Civil Rights. \(2002 Individually Identifiable Health Information; Final Rule [45 CFR Parts 160 and 164  14] Office for Civil Rights. \(2006 Simplification [45 CFR Parts 160, 162 and 164  15] Rowe, Gene, George Wright \(1999 Technique as a forecasting tool: issues and analysis International Journal of Forecasting, 15  16] Westbrook, Lynn. ?Information Access Issues for Interdisciplinary Scholars: Results of a Delphi Study on Women?s Studies Research?, Journal of Academic Librarianship, 23:3, \(May 1997  17] Williams, S. \(2004 troops. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. October 4, 2004  18] Wolfowitz, P. \(2002 Privacy Protections for DoD Medical Records Memorandum to Committee on Armed Services. March 1 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


                                                      


                         L A                                        


          L A  Table 7. Table of Granules at left-hand-side is isomorphic to  at right- hand-side: By Theorem  3.1 one can ?nd patterns in either table as a single generalized concept  Internal points  are:[4]\(1, 1, 0, 0 tions; [5]\(0, 1, 1, 0  0, 1, 0, 1  0, 1, 1, 1  1, 1 1, 0  1, 1, 0, 1  1, 0, 1, 1 11]\(1, 1, 1, 1 form and simplify them into disjoint normal forms 1  T E N    S J    T E N    S J 2  T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A 3  T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   A 4  T W E N T Y            L A 5  T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N    T W E N T Y   A   S J    T W E N T Y   A      T H I R T Y    L A     Y 7  T E N      T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y   L A    T E N   L A    S  J   A 8  T W E N T Y      T E N      T W E N T Y    L A    T E N   T W E N T Y      T H I R T Y 9  T W E N T Y    N Y    T E N    S J    T H I R T Y    L A      T W E N T Y    L A  1 0  T W E N T Y    N Y    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y   A    J 1 1  T W E N T Y          T W E N T Y    L A   T H I R T Y    L A    a l l If the simpli?ed expression is a single clause \(in the original symbols non-generalized the following associations 1   T E N     S J    T E N    S J  2. SJ   J 4   L A    T W E N T Y    L A    T H I R T Y    6 Conclusions Data, patterns, method of derivations, and useful-ness are key ingredients in AM. In this paper, we formalize the current state of AM: Data are a table of symbols. The patterns are the formulas of input symbols that repeat. The method of derivations is the most conservative and reliable one, namely, mathematical deductions. The results are somewhat surprising 1. Patterns are properties of the isomorphic class, not an individual relation - This implies that the notion of patterns may not mature yet and explains why there are so many extracted association rules 2. Un-interpreted attributes \(features can be enumerated 3. Generalized associations can be found by solving integral linear inequalities. Unfortunately, the number is enormous. This signi?es the current notion of data and patterns \(implied by the algorithms 4. Real world modeling may be needed to create a much more meaningful notion of patterns. In the current state of AM, a pattern is simply a repeated data that may have no real world meaning. So we may need to introduce some semantics into the data model [12],[10],[11 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE References 1] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases  in Proceeding of ACM-SIGMOD international Conference on Management of Data, pp. 207216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 


216, Washington, DC, June, 1993 2] Richard A. Brualdi, Introductory Combinatorics, Prentice Hall, 1992 3] A. Barr and E.A. Feigenbaum, The handbook of Arti?cial Intelligence, Willam Kaufmann 1981 4] Margaret H. Dunham, Data Mining Introduction and Advanced Topics Prentice Hall, 2003, ISBN 0-13088892-3 5] Fayad U. M., Piatetsky-Sjapiro, G. Smyth, P. \(1996 From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery: An overview. In Fayard, Piatetsky-Sjapiro, Smyth, and Uthurusamy eds., Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI/MIT Press, 1996 6] H Gracia-Molina, J. Ullman. &amp; J. Windin, J, Database Systems The Complete Book, Prentice Hall, 2002 7] T. T. Lee  Algebraic Theory of Relational Databases  The Bell System Technical Journal Vol 62, No 10, December, 1983, pp.3159-3204 8] T. Y. Lin  Deductive Data Mining: Mathematical Foundation of Database Mining  in: the Proceedings of 9th International Conference, RSFDGrC 2003 Chongqing, China, May 2003, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence LNAI 2639, Springer-Verlag, 403-405 9] T. Y. Lin  Attribute \(Feature  The Theory of Attributes from Data Mining Prospect  in: Proceeding of IEEE international Conference on Data Mining, Maebashi, Japan, Dec 9-12, 2002, pp. pp.282-289 10] T. Y. Lin  Data Mining and Machine Oriented Modeling: A Granular Computing Approach  Journal of Applied Intelligence, Kluwer, Vol. 13, No 2, September/October,2000, pp.113-124 11] T. Y. Lin, N. Zhong, J. Duong, S. Ohsuga  Frameworks for Mining Binary Relations in Data  In: Rough sets and Current Trends in Computing, Lecture Notes on Arti?cial Intelligence 1424, A. Skoworn and L Polkowski \(eds 12] E. Louie,T. Y. Lin  Semantics Oriented Association Rules  In: 2002 World Congress of Computational Intelligence, Honolulu, Hawaii, May 12-17, 2002, 956961 \(paper # 5702 13  The Power and Limit of Neural Networks  Proceedings of the 1996 EngineeringSystems Design and Analysis Conference, Montpellier, France, July 1-4, 1996 Vol. 7, 49-53 14] Morel, Jean-Michel and Sergio Solimini, Variational methods in image segmentation : with seven image processing experiments Boston : Birkhuser, 1995 15] H. Liu and H. Motoda  Feature Transformation and Subset Selection  IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol. 13 No. 2, March/April, pp.26-28 \(1998 16] Z. Pawlak, Rough sets. Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM  04 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





