html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Trusted  Computing - Opportunities &amp; Risks Nor Fatimah Bt Awang Department of Computer Science Faculty of Defense Science and Technology National Defense University of Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Malaysia norfatimah@upnm.edu.my Abstract- Computer security is undeniably important in IT era nowdays. Most computer users today are fighting for - either by battling viruses, spam, phishing or other malware, or by fending off schemes to compromise privacy and extract confidential information. With these worries in mind, the Trusted Computing Group \(TCG trusted computing building blocks and software interfaces that could address the problems and aims to enhance security by using the transitive properties of trust. However, the implementation of this technology seems to have consequences for many people. At present, there is no standard mechanism for establishing trust in the Trusted Computing \(TC machine. The TC specification is not rigidly defined when it comes to implementation, leaving many open issues for research and development efforts. There are major issues, especially related to privacy. One big worry is the potential loss of anonymity and the threat of unwanted surveillance and even control. TC also affects areas other than purely technical ones The capabilities of TC technology have legal as well as economic consequences. The main legal concerns are copyright, anti-trust law, data privacy law and digital rights management, the impact on which are not yet clear. This paper will discuss the TC in concept and study on the opportunities and risks of the system in existing computing system environment particularly related to security matters hardware support needed for all the major feature groups in Next-Generation Secure Computing Base \(NGSCB Therefore a single body or organisation is crucially needed to streamline end-to-end trusted platform requirements and to further drive in developing standard guidelines and specifications. As a result in 8th April 2003, a not-for-profit industry-standards organization namely as Trusted Computing Group \(TCG open, vendor-neutral industry specifications for trusted computing[I I TCG has extended it scope beyond PCs to other devices and system such as storage, mobile devices, servers infrastructures, and peripherals. A bigger workgroup has been created to defme implementation architectures for respective element. The Storage Work Group, for example, plans to build on existing TCG technologies and address standards for security services on dedicated storage systems, such as disk drives, removable media drives, flash storage, and multiple storage device systems. To date, TCG specifications have been developed for desktop and portable computers, mobile devices storage devices, and the network itself. Of course, these specifications only provide an improved level of trust if they are implemented Figure I. Trusted Computing Group Standard [2 Notebooks Desktops Security hardware Input devices Credentials Operating Applications.. \\I systems Mobile r.J t2J 1 phones 8~~c~r PMs   TRUSTED .-- ' Storage CoMPlITlNG GROUP oo   Savers I. INTRODUCTION 


I. INTRODUCTION There are many promising approaches to improve security in computing environment in all possible angles and aspects ego redesigning operating systems, changing programming methodologies, or altering the PC's hardware itself. This broad term as well as scope drives a mix of initiatives by individual processor manufacturers, software makers, service providers networking and original equipment manufacturers\(OEM respond to the well-known security challenges Microsoft has started with a software-based project referred as the Microsoft Next-Generation Secure Computing Base, or NGSCB which specifies software changes that take advantage of the security benefits made available by a planned new PC hardware design[4]. On the other hand, Intel and AMD are in midst of developing a processor-based solution namely as Intel's LaGrande Technology \(LT Execution Mode \(SEM Keywords-component; Trusted Computing, security, network Digital Object Identifier: 10.4108I/CST.COLLABORATECOM2009.8402 http://dx.doi.org/10.41081ICST.COLLABORATECOM2009.8402 II. OPPORTUNITY OF TRUSTED COMPUTING The Trusted Computing \(TC over proprietary hardware security solutions, and inherently hardware security is stronger than software-only approaches Existing research shows that the TC can be used to establish trust in the software executing on a computer A. Storage Protection This threat arises from the fact that mobile devices or notebook computers are more susceptible to be stolen than their desktop counterparts. Once stolen, notebooks can be subject to a variety of hardware as well as software attacks. It is often found that the stolen data is more valuable than just the cost of the notebook hardware[10 TCG has introduced a Trusted Computing Platform TCP data directly on the drive and the encryption speed matches the throughput of the drive interface so the process is essentially unobservable to the user in normal operation. If a trusted drive is stolen, repurposed, or taken out of service, it remains protected. Simple user and security ID keys make end of life and repurposing instantaneous and secure. In the enterprise, a trusted storage system allows authorized access to critical data while preventing unauthorized access or modification of that data In addition to an unobservable cryptographic processing of secrets and use of custom logic to provide fast, secure operation for the cryptographic functions, protecting data on a hard drive requires tight access control for secret information Once again, the TCP provides the key with its hardware-based key generating capability B. Secure Online Transaction Notebooks often operate outside of corporate frrewalls Also, they use various means of communication to access the corporate network or the Internet. There are a number of ways in which a determined hacker can attack the communication channel used by the notebook to steal the data being transceived [10 To protect customer and employee data from Internetbased attacks, Personal information Manager \(PIM secured by the hardware based chip in TCP, isolates contact information, passwords, bank access codes, and credit card numbers. With multi-factor authentication, some employees reach their programs with a single factor while others require at least dual-factor authentication for network access providing the appropriate level of security for each department Instead of using third-party vendors to encrypt content before backing it up, these transactions are now performed locally in house. With encryption keys residing locally in the TCP, copies are automatically passed to the Key Transfer Manager Server providing both protected and recoverable 


Manager Server providing both protected and recoverable information Digital Object Identifier: 10.41OB/ICST. COLLABORATECOM2009. B402 http://dx.doi.org/10.410B/ICST.COLLABORATECOM2009. B402 C. Data and Network Protector from Virus and Malware In today's security environment, a worm, virus or other malware on a PC that connects to the network can easily spread across it. Relying on anti-virus and personal frrewall software for portable computers is not acceptable for a secure corporate network. An authorized user can gain access to the network from an external site to simply check email. If the user's computer has a virus or rootkit, a software tool that conceals running processes, these unwanted software items can spread to the network. By taking advantage of the TCP deceptive or lying endpoints can be detected. Using the hardware-based security of the TCP for integrity measurement and remote attestation, the limitations of software-based protection can be overcome With the TCP, the specification establishes a level of trust in the state of an endpoint and also ensures the presence, status and software version ofmandated applications D. Digital Rights Management Trusted Computing would allow companies to create a digital rights management system which would be very hard to circumvent, though not impossible. An example is downloading a music file. Remote attestation could be used so that the music file would refuse to play except on a specific music player that enforces the record company's rules. Sealed storage would prevent the user from opening the file with another player or another computer. The music would be played in curtained memory, which would prevent the user from making an unrestricted copy of the file while it is playing, and secure I/O would prevent capturing what is being sent to the sound system. Circumventing such a system would require either manipulation of the computer's hardware capturing the analogue \(and possibly degraded recording device or a microphone, or breaking the encryption algorithm[7 III. TRUSTED COMPUTING CONCEPTS The demand that gave birth to the trusted computing system normally originated from military or security related agencies They are the users or groups that are very cautious about every single aspect of security threats to their operations and organizations. Therefore most of trusted computing system has been developed according to military security models and requirements. A secure military personal computers built from common off-the-shelf components has been a long dream of the military and security agencies world-wide as it's would save large amounts of money. Common requirements of such a system are as follows[18  Any data on the system must be wiped out both before and after it is used  The system must be able to securely identify itself  The user must be able to securely identify himself  Information passed to the system must not be visible during the transfer  Confidential information on the system must not be available to other processes running on the system All of these objectives could be accomplished as follows A system is designed that has no hard disk, but lots of RAM This is becoming more doable now that 64-bit architecture chips are shipping, but even 2 gigabytes of RAM is sufficient for most purposes especially the fact that RAM is easier to erase than a hard disk. The machine boots to the network over an Internet Protocol Security \(IPsec other end loads a secure operating system into the RAM These requirements have motivate most of sectors related to trusted computing system to innovate or create an integrated platform that cover the criteria. It may now be possible to build such a system using a Trusted Platform Module \(TPM module at its core 


module at its core The basis of Trusted Computing, as defined by TCG, is a collection of one or more security devices that can be embedded within a Trusted Computing Platform. The first device defmed by TCG is the TPM, which is encapsulated within a Trusted Computing Platform by affixing a single chip to the motherboard or embedding the functionality within another silicon component. The TPM is typically a microcontroller that stores passwords, digital keys, and certificates to provide unique identification. Either a standalone integrated circuit \(IC such as an Ethernet controller, the TPM uses standard software interfaces to work with other security methods to deploy secure applications The other critical supporting component in completing trusted computing model is TCG Software Stack \(TSS is a module that similar to Microsoft Next-Generation Secure Computing Base module, or NGSCB. The TSS is comprised of modules and components that provide the supporting functionality to the TPM. Based on the TCG specification certain functions and services are outside of the scope of the TPM hardware. These functions and services are delivered using the host CPU and system memory. The TSS provides the necessary software architecture to support the offloading of security functions from the TPM to the main CPU and memory resources of the system. TSS communications with the TPM can occur either locally or remotely. The TSS provides a standard set of application programming interfaces APIs IV. RISKS OF TRUSTED COMPUTING It is clear that trusted computing hardware provides security benefits when nicely blended with right software that is prepared to take advantage of it. But trusted computing has been received skeptically and remains controversial. Some of the controversy is based on misconceptions, but much of it is relevance. Trusted computing \(TC including some benefits for large corporations. Here discuss more about risks involved in TC Digital Object Identifier: 10.41OB/ICST.COLLABORATECOM2009. B402 http://dx.doi.org/10.410BI/CST.COLLABORATECOM2009.B402 A. Attestation By using Remote Platform Attestation, an unauthorized changes to software can be detected via a network. For the legitimate user, it is a best feature to detect tampering. This attestation technique involve third party to check the software running on the system in order to create certificate to system This third party can get sensitive information about the user's device and able to influence privacy by linking requests of the customer because of the usage of unique keys like the Endorsement Key. For computer device, attestation technique is performed using hash value. Hash value is created and checked against a database to verify the values as correct Hash value could be invalid if an unknown program is running on the computing device and thus a service provider can deny services Remote attestation could cause other problems. Currently web sites can be visited using a number of web browsers though certain websites may be formatted such that some browsers cannot decipher their code. Some browsers have found a way to get around that problem by emulating other browsers. With remote attestation a website could check the internet browser being used and refuse to display on any browser other than the specified one \(like Internet Explorer so even emulating the browser would not work B. Hardware Failure Any hardware component, including the TC hardware itself, has the potential to fail, or to be upgraded and replaced A user might rightly conclude that the mere possibility of being irrevocably cut-off from access to his or her own information, or to years' worth of expensive work-products with no opportunity for recovery of that information, is 


with no opportunity for recovery of that information, is unacceptable[7]. The concept of basing ownership or usage restrictions upon the verifiable identity of a particular piece of computing hardware may be perceived by the user as problematic if the equipment in question malfunctions. TPM has a unique key and this key identifies a single TPM and also the main key for all further operations. TPM is embedded on the motherboard and all important keys are stored and used inside the TPM. That means for instance a software lisence for a certain computing device could be bound to hardware integrated keys C. No Standard Testing Procedure The TCG only released a specification, but no conformance tests are forced onto the vendors. Up to now there is no feasible test methods to judge whether they are compliant to TCG specifications or not. Therefore it may be difficult for an end user to tell whether his trusted platform is compliant to the whole specification or only to a subset of it as there isn't any a prototype with full funtion can test TPM Non-corformance and bugs of TPM can lead to serious security problems D. No Interoperability Trusted Computing requests that all software and hardware vendors will follow the technical specifications released by the Trusted Computing Group in order to allow interoperability between different trusted software stacks. However, even now there are interoperability problems between the TrouSerS trusted software stack \(released as open source software by IBM   the fact that the technical specifications are still changing, so it is unclear which is the standard implementation of the trusted stack E. Cryptographic Issues TCG uses standard algorithms like RSA and SHA-l. But like SHA-1 will not fulfil near future security requirements and should be substituted by better techniques[15]. Implement cryptographic chips in TPM platform has introduces a lot of security-related improvement and also a lot of memory usage then it will slow the process F. Open Source Software Trusted computing puts the existence of free operating systems and free applications at risk, as TPM will block this kind of software. Some versions of trusted computing would require the operating system to be specifically authorized by a particular company. Free operating systems could not be installed. Some versions of trusted computing would require every program to be specifically authorized by the operating system developer. To run free applications on such a system could be a crime[14]. On the other words, the downloaded videos and music can be played only on one specified computer. Digital Right Management technology in Trusted Computing will prevents users from freely sharing and using potentially copyrighted or private files without explicit permission G. Malfunction ofSoftware or Application The technical idea underlying trusted computing is that the computer includes a digital encryption and signature device and the keys are kept secret by manufacturers. Proprietary programs will use the TPM to control which other programs can be run, which documents or data can be accessed, and what programs can be pass them to. These programs will continually download new authorization rules through the Internet, and impose those rules automatically, refuses to obtain the new rules periodically from the Internet might causes some capabilities will automatically cease to function[14 v. RECOMMENDATIONS The TCG technical committee considered few intiatives to improve the weaknesses and risks from the existing TC privacy policies. The TCG privacy model generally follows the privacy guiding principles established by the World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C 


A. Notice and Communication Many software systems need to provide services continuously and uninterruptedly. Meanwhile, these software systems need to keep evolving continuously to fix bugs, add functions, improve algorithms, adapt to new running environments and platforms, or prevent potential problems Digital Object Identifier: 10.41OB/ICST. COLLABORATECOM2009. B402 http://dx.doi.org/10.410BI/CST.COLLABORATECOM2009.B402 This situation makes online evolution an important issue in the field of software maintenance and evolution. On the other hand, one of TPM most important role is to protect data from virus or worm attacks by comparing in and out value as a mechanism to identify threats from outside, for instance the trusted" boot functions provide the ability to store in Platform Configuration Registers \(PCR information throughout the boot sequence. Once booted, data such as symmetric keys for encrypted files under a PCR. The sealed data can only be unsealed if the PCR has the same value as at the time of sealing. Thus, if an attempt is made to boot an alternative system, or a virus has back-door the operating system, the PCR value will not match and the unseal will fail, thus protecting the data.[20]. To overcome the situation, software providers and TPM should provide timely and effective notices of their information practices, software providers and TPM should provide effective tools for users to access these notices and make decisions based on them, eg alarm of pop up message to remind users on mismatch value prior to delete any data automatically B. Choice and Control Currently, the specification from TCG does not allowed the owner of the system or the owner of the computer to load an alternate trusted storage root. It also prevent anyone from running an operating system or running other software of their choice. Users should be given the ability to make meaningful choices about the collection, operating system and applications, and disclosure of personal information[19]. Users should be allowed to completely disabled the TPM or it is easily unplugged as praticed by IBM on LPC bus daugtherboard. Computers or terminals must be workable with or without presence of TPM. TPM should act as an added features and independent in which not inter-dependent with other components or softwares. This feature can avoid sofware developers from abusing the TPM and limit users choice C. Fairness &amp; Integrity Users should retain control over their personal information and decide the conditions they want it. Service providers should treat users with fairness and integrity. This is essential for protecting privacy and promoting flexibility Users are permitted to completely disable or modify all endorsement keys in order to give complete privacy and freedom. This basically will offer flexibility to users to reuse or reinstall software to new computers or terminals. This feature is critical for software that bind with TPM in order to operate and open source-source softwares that often changed on source code D. Open platform development model Encourage the open development model that enables any party to develop hardware, software, or system platformsbased on TCG specifications, and to preserving consumer freedom of choice[2]. TPM togther with software developers should make peer-to-peer communication within community easier Where group of computer \(that is safe from outsider 7] Trusted Computing, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trusted Computing 6] Trusted Computing Group . TCG Software Stack \(TSS http://www.trustedcomputinggroup.org/specsrrSS 4] Trusted Computing - Promise and Risk, http ://www.eff.orgwotrustedcomputing-promise-and-risk 2] Frank Molsberry , Brian Berger , "Enhancing IT Security with Trusted Computing Group Standards ," http://www.dell .com/powersolutions TCPA,"ofControl[8] Safford , David, "Take 


TCPA,"ofControl[8] Safford , David, "Take http://www.linuxjoumal.com/article/6633 5] Yianna Danidou , "Legal Implications of Trusted Computing http ://www.bileta.ac.uk/Document..1020Librarv/I/Legal%20Implications%200 f''1020Trusted%20Computing.pdf 3] Eimear Gallery, "Who are the TCG and what are the trusted computing concepts http://www.trust2008.eu/downloadslEdu Event Monday/2 Eimear Gallery Who is the TCG and what are TC concept s.pdf monitoring complex authentication process. This features also will make data-backup activities \(on other hardware VI. CONCLUSIONS One of the frequent issues related to network security is the lack of strong device or machine identities for computer systems connected to the corporate network. For instance, the IP networking industry has purely relied on ethernet MAC address on the NIC hardware of PC client computers to identify the computer as an endpoint within the network the found in. The available Software-only security solutions may not be sufficient to protect networks or information from threats. Even firewalls protecting intranet environments can prove inadequate, especially when software attacks bypass the firewall or originate from internal users.[17] Therefore combination of Hardware &amp; Software based embedded security solutions crucially important element of secure environments With Trusted Computing \(TC consistently behave in specific ways, and those behaviors will be enforced by hardware and software. The primary TCG specifications rely on the Trusted Platform Module \(TPM hardware component, which is in widespread deployment and the TCG Software Stack \(TSS as a foundation for various applications Unfortunately Trusted Computing is a young technology and struggling with some drawbacks. For example questions on the issue of privacy, the internet and TC from a new perspective. TC is primarily seen as a threat to privacy as a political concept, giving multinational companies access to information we would prefer to keep private. Unsurprisingly the TC has provoked and given rise to number of controversies between its proponents and opponents. This is due to the fact that the aim of TCG will provide more trustworthiness from the point of view of software vendors and the content industry but will be less trustworthy and freedom from the point of view oftheir owners.[5 Fortunately, the TCG as well as independent researchers is working seriously to address the limitations and weakness of the TC. For instance, Open Platform Development Model initiative will improve TC platform openness and flexibility in offering benefits to both vendors and users. TC can be very useful for secure infrastructure commons if its limitations and critical points are carefully taken into account and ultimately will covert all the risks to opportunities in which will develop a better secured community 9] Siani Person, "Trusted Computing Platform, the next security solution," http://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2002/HPL-2002-221.pdf 10] Sundeep Bajikar , "Trusted Platform Module \(TPM Notebook PCs - White Paper 11] Protecting Your Vital Business Data with Trusted Platform Module http ://www.intel.com/design/mobile/platform/downioadrrrusted Platform M odule White Paper.pdf 12] David Challener, Kent Yoder, "A Practical Guide to Trusted Computing," IBM Press, 2008: 77-92 13] Burmester, M., and Mulholland, J. \(2006 computing: implications for digital forensics " Proceedings ofthe 2006 ACM sympos ium on Applied computing, Dijon, France, 283-287 14] Free Free Software Free Society: selected essays of Richard M Stallman, http ://shop.fsf.org/product/free-software-free-societv IS] Ruediger Weis, Stefan Lucks, Andreas Bogk,\(2004 with the ' Frits' chip 16] Huanguo Zhang , Jie Luo, Fei Yan, Mingd i Xu, Fan He, Jing Zhan , "A 


16] Huanguo Zhang , Jie Luo, Fei Yan, Mingd i Xu, Fan He, Jing Zhan , "A Practical Solution to Trusted Computing Platform Testing 17] Thomas Hardjono, " Strengthening Enterprise Application Using Trusted platform Modules 18] A Practical Guide to Trusted Computing http ://my.safaribooksonline.com/9780 132398428/ch 131evIsec14 REFERENCES I] Trusted Computing Group . TCG Specification Architecture Overview http://www.trustedcomoutinggroup.org/groupsrrCG I 4 Architecture Over view.pdf 19] P3P Guiding Principles http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-P3PI Oprinciples 20] David Safford , \(2002 Research Digital Object Identifier: 10.41OBI/CST.COLLABORATECOM2009.B402 http://dx.doi.org/10.410B//CST.COLLABORATECOM2009.B402 pre></body></html 


 In the US, consumers do not change their phones that frequently. So in order to develop suitable marketing, general ads should be developed to play on Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 all phones by adopting the strategy of working to the lowest common denominator, which will help get penetration into as broad a target market as possible On the flip side, if one was to focus only on users with advanced phones, then this niche is a community that could also be well-served as they are expected to be early adopter and tech-savvy users. In our opinion, the mobile advertisers should focus on breadth rather that depth? when trying to spur adoption of mobile advertising in the market place. Again we believe simplicity is key for quick adoption by users and complicated and time-consuming, graphics heavy features can be added on later, when user has seen the value of mobile advertising and is fully engaged  Interactivity will assist advertisers in their 'call to action' and it will be a necessary part of a successful mobile advertising promotion. Most experts see device interactivity and intelligence technologies as playing the ?complimentary? enablers role rather than forming the core of the mobile advertising experience to begin with. Speech input, predictable text input, offline content review and consolidation of messages/advertising offers are some of the areas in which further technological advancement can help simplify the mobile advertising value proposition for the end-users. Similarly the development of a bar-code like mobile coupons which work seamlessly at retail stores and are widely compatible on all mobile devices is also an aspect of mobile device software intelligence which proves useful for mobile advertisers  However, pure technology will never provide a better and comprehensively pleasant user experience Advertisers will have to focus more on the user experience rather than getting carried away with usage of the latest technology. We believe that a well executed and valuable text messaging campaign will win over a more complex and technological solution if the user experience is complex or non-intuitive Having said that, larger screen-size on mobile devices Voice-response capabilities to advertising messages and fast carrier networks \(3G or 4G interfaces etc. will definitely improve mobile advertising?s appeal to the consumers? imagination once this advertising medium has gain some traction  4.4. Media  Standards and regulatory measures are going to play an important role in facilitating the adoption of mobile advertising. It is very important to get industry to work together to get market acceptance by overcoming the key consumer concerns around privacy and security. We believe that currently mobile phone users trust their mobile operators more than any thirdparty content providers and the mobile operators will have to guarantee a spam-free environment \(as well as the ability to report spam easily if there is any consumers? the confidence to experiment with mobile advertising. On a regulatory level the regulatory organizations like the EU and governments are also building core frameworks around mobile advertising these days with concerns around spam, managing and abstracting subscriber information, strict privacy protection and age controls being the core focus areas 


protection and age controls being the core focus areas Some envision mobile advertising to propagate better if the mobile operators orient their networks on Open and non-proprietary lines, like the Internet \(as opposed to the current closed cell phone network models adopted by some of the American and European operators  Keeping tight and practical limits on the usage of Location Based Services is also important. Recent research in 2006, in which a research firm surveyed 2000 European mobile users to get their perspective on mobile advertising, the overall response showed a great resistance to the idea of LBS-linked advertising because consumers are still fearful of exposing realtime information about the location on a round the clock basis. No one wants a device in their pocket that tells advertisers where they are at all times. Regulation and tight consumer control around such LBS data might help build the consumers confidence to a certain extent but advertisers will need to act responsibly in this regard  Telecommunications and marketing regulators need to come up with fool-proof policies to ensure that consumers are protected from unscrupulous marketers and advertisers. Consumer privacy and absolute control of their information and ability to be reached by marketers must be protected at all cost. The basic concerns of the consumers are quite simple .e.g. who will get my data, how can I eliminate spam, etc. As long as consumers know that policies are in place, and working, they will feel safe and will open up to advertisements  5. Conclusion  Mobile marketing adoption and acceptance is on the rise [5], but without a clear understanding of the elements effecting mobile advertising, marketers will have little ability to constantly generate positive returns from their programs. Previous studies [11] identified the influential variables affecting consumer behavior Based on author?s review the main factors which are affecting consumer behavior are 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 to which personal information is not known by others 2 to satisfy by using a mobile device, and 3 Performance; respond and attitude towards mobile advertising. According to Kotler [6], formulating the message is critical in mobile advertising and will require solving four problems: what to say \(message content message structure how to say it symbolically \(message format should say it \(message source the following factors are critical regarding messaging in mobile advertising; 1 king? in mobile advertising, content being informative and entertaining, 2 of the truthfulness and believability of advertising in general, 3 customer?s goal in specific context with a business?s goal in its respective context  Mobile handsets are seen as very powerful communication devices by advertisers, due to the personal, immediate, and interactive nature of them 12]. The mobile device may be an attention getter, but an attention getting device that is unrelated to the message will not attract consumers interested in the message or the product [13]. The device should have 


the following characteristics to maximize user experience in mobile advertising: 1 and suitable user interface maximizes user experience 2 communication between mobile marketer and consumer, 3 telecommunications platforms and also location based technologies. For mobile advertising to succeed business models that can capture the synergy of two existing industries, advertising and telecommunications, must be conceived. In any future sustainable business model, all players will have to reach a consensus on the structure of the system and on the importance of each player in that system [9]. The factors affecting the mobile advertising media are: 1 Players; key players and their roles, 2 relationship and cross media working in mobile advertising value chain, 3 regulation which place sets of rules for the collection and procession of location-based data  This paper delineates the results of an empirical study conducted to evaluate the strength of set of hypotheses around selected conceptual model. A five point Likert-Scale survey of a convenience sample of 115 Mobile marketing experts was conducted to help evaluate the hypotheses and statistical hypothesis testing techniques have been employed at 95 confidence level to evaluate the results. The paper also documents some valuable suggestions received from the mobile marketing expert community  The results of the survey have proven the conceptual model in the respective areas of Consumer Privacy, Purpose &amp; Performance Content Credibility and Customization Price Process &amp; Policy believe that this proposed Conceptual Model/Framework can serve as a solid base for the evaluation of the critical success factors for a marketworthy mobile advertising strategy  The main objective of this article was to explore mobile advertising?s challenges and future directions by evaluating factors that seem to influence mobile advertising. The theoretical contribution of this article lies in outlining the key factors of mobile advertising Author hopes that this article opens new dialogues on multiple unexamined issues concerning mobile advertising industry. The paper has addressed an important and topical subject, as there has not been sufficient empirical evidence to date to substantiate any of the theoretical models that have been proposed regarding the factors that influence the success of mobile advertising. This paper its conclusions will be a valuable contribution to the debates in academia  A potential extension of our research is to field this same set of survey  questions, \(which was fielded to mobile advertising experts for the sake of this paper be fielded to mobile phone consumers across different demographics in different countries to assess how the consumers? perceptions stack-rank against the experts opinions. The authors hopes that this article opens new dialogues on multiple unexamined issues concerning mobile advertising industry  6. References   1] Balasubramanian S., Peterson R. A. and Jarvenpaa, S. L Exploring the Implications of MCommerce for Markets and 


Exploring the Implications of MCommerce for Markets and Marketing", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 30\(4 2] Stewart D. W. and Pavlou, P. A. "From Consumer Response to Active Consumer: Measuring the Effectiveness of Interactive Media", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 30\(4 3] Bulander R., Decker M., Schiefer G., and Kolmel B Comparison of Different Approaches for Mobile Advertising? Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE  International Workshop on Mobile Commerce and Services \(WMCS '05 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7  IEEE Computer Society, Munich, Germany, July 2005. pp 174-182 4] Vatanparast R., Asil M. ?Factors Affecting the Use of Mobile Advertising? International Journal of Mobile Marketing, December 2007  Volume 2, No 2 5] Becker M. ?Effectiveness of Mobile Channel Additions and A Conceptual Model Detailing the Interaction of Influential Variables? access Nov. 2005 http://www.iloopmobile.com/news/mb_research_111705.htm access Jan 2007 6] Kotler P. "Marketing Management", Pearson Education Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, 2003 7] Koranteng J., ?ZAP! There?s no escaping the mobile ad Ad Age Global, January, Vol. 1, No. 5, 2001, p.9 8] Ogilvy D., "Confessions of an Advertising Man Ballantine Books, New York, 1963 9] Lepp  niemi M., Karjaluoto H., and Salo J., ?The success factors of mobile advertising value chain?, EBusiness Review IV, 2004 pp. 93-97 10] Duchnicky, R. L., and Kolers, P. A. \(1983 of text scrolled on video display terminals as a function of window size. Human Factors, 25, 683-692  11] Bauer H. H, Barnes S. J., Reichardt T. and Neumann M M., "Driving Consumer Acceptance of Mobile Marketing: A Theoretical Framework and Empirical Study," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, Vo. l6, No.3, 2005, pp 181-192 12] Koranteng J., ?ZAP! There?s no escaping the mobile ad?, Ad Age Global, January, Vol. 1, No. 5, 2001, p.9 13] Ogilvy D., "Confessions of an Advertising Man Ballantine Books, New York, 1963 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 pre></body></html 


acquisition of transport information by selecting OWLQoS documents which describe quality of Web services from a repository that contains 3 OWL-QoS documents discovered previously. Similar to the example in Figure 2, the Filter Schema FS1 is used to read and select appropriate OWL-QoS documents, and the Filter Schema FS2 to create new OWL-QoS documents for the place ?OWL-QoS document?. As Filter Schema provides no means for formulating inequality operators like ?&gt;? and ?&lt;=?, which are usually used to express constraints with parameters whose quantitative values are limited to a certain interval, transition inscriptions Figure 4. XML net for Web service discovery Figure 5. Filter Schemas for Web service discovery definitions 1 service name: \\s*flight\\s*/i c definitions service name: \\s*train\\s*/i b a definitions 1 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 can be used in combination with Filter Schemas to formulate QoS constrains Suppose that the traveler wants to use only the Web services that cost no more than 100 US Cent. The Filter Schema FS1 should then be created as shown in Figure 7. The variable of the attribute filter ?rdf: resource? of the element filter ?owl: onProperty? is instantiated with a regular expression to filter OWL-QoS documents specifying the property ?costUSCent?. To ensure that the maximal cost of the Web service doesn?t exceed 100 US cent, the inscription of the transition ?select transport info service? should be formulated as owl:maxCardinality &lt;= 100?. In process simulation or execution, the inscription is parsed and integrated into XQuery statements using XPath inequality operators  6. Conclusions  In this paper we presented a WSC method based on XML nets, which inherit advantages of Petri nets such as formal semantics and graphical expression. XML nets have additional strengths in the description of process and data objects, and the exchange of XMLbased structured data. The advantage of using XML nets for WSC is that control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling, and WS discovery and selection can be realized using a uniform powerful modeling language. Some uncomplicated tasks, as illustrated before, can be fulfilled without developing or using additional software components or agents. Naturally XML nets can also be combined with other Web service techniques to fulfill more complicated and demanding tasks  7. Acknowledgement  The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for many valuable comments on an earlier version of this paper  8. References  1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching 


1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching Web Service Coordination and Composition by Means of Petri Nets: the Case of the Nets-within-Nets Paradigm?, ICSOC 2005, LNCS 3826, pp.185-197, 2005 2] M. ter Beek, A. Bucchiarone, and S. Gnesi, ?Web Service Composition Approaches: From Industrial Standards to Formal Methods?, Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services \(ICIW?07 Computer Society, 2007 3] X.N. Feng, Q. Liu, and Z. Wang, ?A Web Service Composition Modeling and Evaluation Method Used Petri Net?, LNCS Volume 3842/2006, pp. 905-911, SpringerVerlag, 2006 4] H. Foster, S. Uchitel, J. Magee, and J. Kramer, ?Modelbased verification of Web Service Compositions?, 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 152- 161, 2003 5] X. Fu, T. Bultan, and J.W. Su, ?Analysis of Interacting BPEL Web Services?, WWW2004, pp. 17-22, New York USA, May 2004 6] J.D. Ge, H.Y. Hu, P. Lu, H. Hu, and J. L  Translation of Nets Within Nets in Cross-Organizational Software Process Modeling?, SPW 2005, LNCS 3840, pp. 60-375 Springer-Verlag, 2005 7] Group for program system, faculty of Information Technique University Dortmund, ?PDDL?, http://ls5www.cs.uni-dortmund.de/~edelkamp/ipc-4/pddl.html 8] R. Hamadi and B. Benatallah, ?A Petri Net-based Model for Web Service Composition?, Fourteenth Australasian Database Conference \(ADC2003 CRPIT, Vol. 17, pp. 191-200, 2003 9] S. Hinz, K. Schmidt, and C. Stahl, ?Transforming BPEL to Petri Nets?, BPM 2005, LNCS 3649, pp. 220?235, Springer-Verlag, 2005 10] H. Kang, X.L. Yang, and S.M. Yuan, ?Modeling and verification of Web Services Composition based on CPN 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing-Workshops, pp. 613-617, 2007 11] H.M. Kim, A. Sengupta, and J. Evermann, "MOQ: Web Services Ontologies for QOS and General Quality EvaluaFigure 6. XML net for Web service selection Figure 7. Filter Schema for QoS-aware WS selection owl:Ontology owl:Class rdfs:subClassOf owl:Restriction rdf :resource : "\\s+#costUSCent owl:onProperty owl:maxCardinality   rdf:RDF Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 tions", European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2005 12] S. Klink, Y. Li, and A. Oberweis, "INCOME2010 - a Toolset for Developing Process-Oriented Information Systems Based on Petri Nets", International Workshop on Petri Nets Tools and APplications \(PNTAP 2008, associated to SIMUTools 2008 March 2008 13] O. Kluge, ?Petri nets as a Semantic Model for message Sequence Chart Specifications?, proceedings of INT 2002 pp. 138-147, 2002 14] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, ?Inter-Organizational Business Process Management with XML Nets?, H. Ehrig, W Reisig, G. Rozenberg, H. Weber \(Eds gy for Communication Based Systems, LNCS 2472, pp. 243263, Springer-Verlag, 2003 15] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, "Workflow Services: A Petri Net-Based Approach to Web Services", Int. Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Pa 


Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Paphos/Cyprus, November 2004 16] L. Lin and I.B. Arpinar, ?Discovery of Semantic Relations between Web Services?, IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS?06 17] Q. Lin, J.D. Ge, H. Hu, and J. Lu, ?An Approach to Model Cross-Organizational Processes using Object Petri net?, 2007 IEEE Congress on Services \(SERVICES 2007 pp. 146-152, July 2007 18] H. Ludwig, A. Keller, A. Dan, R. P. King, and R Franck, ?Web Service level Agreement \(WSLA Specification version 1.0?, IBM, 2003 19] N. Lohmann, P. Massuthe, C. Stahl, and D. Weinberg Analyzing Interacting BPEL Process?, S. Dustdar, J.L. Fiadeiro, and A. Sheth \(Eds 32, Springer-Verlag, 2006 20] S.A. Mcllraith and T.C. Son, ?Adapting Golog for Composition of Semantic Web Services?, 8th International Conference on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning KR2002 21] S.A. Mcllraith, T.C. Son, and H.L. Zeng, ?Semantic Web Services?, IEEE Intelligent Systems, March/April 2001 16\(2 22] N. Milanovic and M. Malek, ?Current Solution for Web Service Composition?, IEEE Internet Computing, NovemberDecember 2004 23] S. Narayanan and S.A. Mcllraith, ?Simulation, Verification and Automated Composition of Web Service?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 24] The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards \(OASIS Process Execution Language Version 2.0?, 11 April, 2007 http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsbpel/2.0/wsbpel-v2.0.pdf 25] S.R. Ponnekanti and A. Fox, ?SWORD: a Developer Toolkit for Web Services Composition?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 26] Z.Z. Qian, S.L. Lu, and L. Xie, ?Colored Petri Nets Based Automatic Service Composition?, 2007 IEEE AsiaPacific Services Computing Conference, pp. 431-438, 2007 27] C. Ouyang, E. Verbeek, W.M.P. van der Aalst, S. Breutel1, M. Dumas1, and A.H.M. ter Hofstede1, ?Formal semantics and analysis of Control flow in WS-BPEL?, BPM center Technical Report, BPM-05-15, 2005 28] J.H. Rao and X.M. Su, ?A Survey of Automated Web Service Composition Methods?, SWSWPC 2004, LNCS 3387, pp. 43-54, Springer-Verlag, 2005 29] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Application of Linear Logic to Web Service Composition?, 1st International Conference on Web Services, Las Vegas, USA, June 2003 30] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Logic-based Web Services Composition: From Service Description to Process Model?, 2004 International Conference on Web Services, pp.446-453, San Diego, USA, July 2004 31] M. Sgroi, A. Kondratyev, Y. Watanabe, L. Lavagno and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, ?Synthesis of Petri Nets from Message Sequence Charts Specifications for Protocol Design?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp. 193-199, 2004 32] W.M.P. Van der Aalst, "The Application of Petri Nets to Workflow Management", The Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 8\(1 33] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C Semantic Markup for Web Services?, 22 November, 2004 http://www.w3.org/Submission/OWL-S 34] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vices Choreography Description Language Version 1.0?, 17 December, 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-ws-cdl10-20041217 35] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Choreography Interface \(WSCI 


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





