 Early Virus Detection for Windows Mobile  B. Scorgie, Prakash Veeraraghavan and Somnath Ghosh Department of Computer Science and Computer Engineering La Trobe University, 3086, Victoria Australia    
  Abstract 227 The threat of mobile viruses is important problem that needs to be addressed in the near future There has been a lot of research conducted regarding PC viruses and worms, but very little work has been done concerning the same issues in the mobile environment.  As of now, mobile viruses have not 
caused a big problem, however there is future potential for more severe virus attacks that could cause physical damage, denial of service, theft of data or even monetary loss.  The limited research that has been done on mobile worm detection has taken the approach of trying to discover viruses that have already infected a device and had a chance to cause damage  In this paper, we present a method of detecting the presence of a mobile virus at the time of infection.  An application is developed that takes advantage of the fact that if a virus wishes to survive a device-restart it must \223hook\224 onto a point in the operating system that 
will automatically launch it.  User will be given an alert whenever an application tries to hook into autostart  I  INTRODUCTION  OBILE  viruses need to be detected as early as possible, because they have the ability to cause physical damage, denial of service, theft of data or even monetary loss by making unwanted phone calls and sending messages from an infected device There have not yet been any significant and widespread outbreaks of a mobile virus, but it is important to build a knowledge base in the area before 
it does become a major problem  The idea of viruses that target mobile devices is relatively new, and it has not received the attention that the PC virus threat has seen.  Most of the work that has been done regarding mobile viruses has looked at worm propagation models, or examined the differences and similarities between them and PC viruses [1 2  3  4   Some research has been conducted on detecting and limiting mobile viruses [5       7 8] w ith pos it iv e res u lt s, but so f a r w e  hav e no t  
seen anyone attempt to detect a mobile virus at the time of infection stage itself  With devices such as smart phones being used by businesses to give employees access to email and other work related material while on the move, it is important to be able to ensure the integrity and security of sensitive information stored on these devices.  A device that is on the move and has the ability to communicate using Bluetooth and MMS messaging is more vulnerable than a PC containing sensitive data behind a corporate firewall  In Section II, we discuss current mobile virus detection methods and show that there are no current 
m e thods of v i rus det e c tio n at th e t i m e of i n fe ct ion    Section III introduces the concept of Auto-Start Extensibility Points, and describes how these can be monitored to detect virus installations.  Section IV describes the virus detection method and outlines how this is achieved.  The performance of the detection system is covered in Section V.  Examples of how the system would be useful are shown in section VI Finally, Section VII provides explanations of where limitations exist in the proposed method, as well as the future work  II  R ELATED WORK   
The primary method of virus detection for mobile devices at present is signature-based virus scanning  T h e r e a r e s ev eral dr aw back s to t h is appr oach    Signature scanning relies on having a list of predefined virus signatures in order to be able to identify viruses In the event that a device is infected with a virus that is not known to the scanner might go undetected Furthermore, the device needs to have a regular connection to a central database of signatures so that it can receive updates on the latest definitions. This is not as easy to achieve as it is on a PC with a constant 
Internet connection.  Mobile devices have limited storage space in comparison to a PC, and with every new virus definition it downloads the signature scanner is using more of the limited resource.  The nature of the scanning method also means that a virus has to have infected a device and most likely already be M  Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE 9th Malaysia International Conference on Co\mmunications\r\n                                    15 -17 December 2009\ Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 978-1-4244-5532-4/09/$26.00 ©2009 IEEE 295 


spreading and doing damage before it can be detected  Other methods that have been researched have taken a different approach in an attempt to relieve the device of the majority of the work to detect a virus, mindful of the limited battery life, processing power and memory.  One such method requires the device to keep a log of all communication activities, and send the log regularly to a central serv T h e s e rv er t h e n  checks the log for any unusual behaviour that would indicate a virus has infected the device.  This method actually requires the virus to be active and spreading from a device in order to detect it, which would not be acceptable for a device that contained sensitive business data that could have been stolen in the meantime  There is currently no way of detecting a virus on a mobile device until it has had time to do some damage As stated earlier, with devices such as smart phones being used for business purposes, it is essential for the information stored on a device to be kept secure.  If a virus has time to work before it is discovered, then it has an opportunity to steal or corrupt critical information stored on the device  III  A UTO S TART E XTENSIBILITY P OINTS   In order for a virus to be effective, it needs to have the ability to remain active after a device restart.  It is with this in mind that we introduce the concept of Auto-Start Extensibility points \(ASEPs\om n   s des c r i bed as any poin t in t h e OS or a  commonly used application that can be \223hooked\224 onto in order to enable auto-starting of programs without explicit user invocation.  These points are designed to help a user who wants to have an application running at all times, and does not want to have to manually launch it every time the device is restarted If a virus wants to be able to survive a device restart it will need to hook onto one of these ASEPs otherwise a user could simply turn their smart phone off and then on again to neutralise it.  It is this fact that forms the basis of the virus detection method presented in this paper  In de scr i bed a sy stem tha t wou l d m onito r  ASEPs in Windows XP and alert the user of any hooking operations that were detected in an attempt to keep users informed of spyware that was being installed on a PC.  The same technique could be adapted to the mobile environment to alert users of ASEP hooking operations that could indicate a virus infection  IV  M ONITORING ASEP S   We decided to use the Windows Mobile operating system, Visual C# with the .NET Compact Framework, and a set of add-on classes called the Smart Device Framework to design a proof of concept application for monitoring ASEPs to detect virus installations.  Whilst in [9 they iden ti fie d 34 A S E P s i n  the Windows XP operating system, we have identified only two for Windows Mobile  The first ASEP is one that is shared with Windows XP, the Startup folder Each time a device running Windows Mobile is powered on, the operating system checks the Startup folder for any executable files or shortcuts.  Then all executable files will be run, as well as any files that are linked to by a shortcut contained within the Startup folder  The second ASEP is contained within the windows registry.  When a Windows Mobile device is powered on the operating system looks at the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key for a list of applications to run  T h e op era t i n g sy stem uses  two types of registry values to determine the order that applications are auto-run using this method; these can be seen in Figure 1.  The first entry is given the name Launch_nn where nn is a number used to determine the order of execution from lowest number to highest The Launch_nn value contains the full path of the application that is to be auto-run.  Each auto-run application that is using the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key method needs to have a Launch_nn value.  There is a second entry that can be optionally used to indicate that an application must be run after another.  This value is given the name Depend_nn where nn must have the same number as a Launch_nn value.  The Depend_nn  value contains a series of words in hexadecimal notation that represent one or more applications that the auto-run application depends on.  There can be a maximum of 32 applications set to auto-run via the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key    Fig 1 Entries for the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key 296 


A  Monitoring the Startup Folder ASEP  In order to monitor the Startup folder we use the FileSystemWatcher class from the Smart Device Framework Through this class we register the application to receive event notifications from the OS when a file in the Startup folder is changed, created deleted or renamed  When an event notification is received, the application determines if the file is an executable or a shortcut by checking the file extension.  If the file has a 223.lnk 224 extension it is considered to be a shortcut otherwise it is considered to be an executable file.  If it is an executable file, the application writes the current time and date, event type and the files full path to a log file.  If the file was a shortcut, the same information is written to the log file, with the addition of the full path of the shortcuts target file.  The shortcut target is easily extracted from the shortcut because in Windows Mobile they are simple text files [11    B  Monitoring the \223init\224 Registry Key ASEP  In order to monitor the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\Init registry key, the application uses methods that are part of the RegistryKey class in the .NET Compact Framework these can be seen in Figure 2.  Because neither the Compact Framework nor the Smart Device Framework provide a way of receiving event notifications for adding or deleting registry values, we use a timer to periodically poll the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key for any changes  In the ASEP monitoring system, a new RegistryKey  is created pointing to the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE  key.  The init key is then opened using the OpenSubKey method.  A loop is then executed; using the GetValueNames method we count how many Launch_nn values are there  within the init key Another loop is used to fill an array of Strings with the value names within the init key using the GetValueNames method.  Within the same loop another array of Strings is filled with the values associated with the value names using the GetValue  method.  Only Launch_nn values are monitored because the Depend_nn values do not contain information that is relevant to monitoring which application performs ASEP hooking operations  A timer is used to call a method that polls the registry for changes in every five seconds.  The five Second interval was chosen so as to try to minimise the usage of the processor while still polling often enough that the application can alert the user of changes within a few seconds of the ASEP hooking operation  Firstly, the application checks for any new entries in the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key This is done by using the GetValueNames method and looping through each value name, comparing it to the list of names already stored in the array.  If a value name is found to be new, then the name and its value are stored in an array of new values, and the number of new values is counted.  Once all the new values have been identified, they are placed at the end of the arrays that store the value names and values.  The new total number of values is calculated during this process  Next the application checks for any values that have been removed.  This is done again using the GetValueNames method and looping through each name in the registry to see if it matches a String stored in the array of value names.  An array of Boolean values is used to keep track of which elements of the array of names have been found to match the names currently in the registry.  After this is done, any names in the array of Strings that have a corresponding value in the array of Booleans set to false are then removed from the array of names and their corresponding values are removed from the array of values.  The new total number of values is calculated during this process  Finally, the application checks for any values that have changed.  Again this is done using the GetValueNames method and looping through each name in the registry.  This time the GetValue method is used in another loop to check if each value matches one that has been stored in the array of values.  If a value is found to not match any in the array, then both it and its corresponding value name are stored in a new array.  Next the new value names are checked against those in the array of names.  When a match is found the corresponding value in the value array is updated to reflect the new value  When a value has been created, deleted or changed the current time and date, event type, value name and value contents are written to a log file.  In the event of a value change, both the old and new values are written to the log  C  Informing the User  In addition to writing ASEP hooking event details to a log file, the application also displays an alert message on the screen for the user.  As can be seen in Figure 3, the alert message contains the time and date of the alert, as well as the file name and file path.  The user is given the option to dismiss the alert or to have 297 


the alert appear again after one of the given time intervals  This user alert is the only interaction the application has with the user.  The alert is intended to keep them notified of when an application or a virus is setting itself to be able to auto-run on device startup.  If an ASEP hooking event was occurring at a time when they were not expecting one then it is a good possibility that it was due to a virus infection.  The user could then take action to have the virus removed by some other means, such as contacting their IT department if it was a business device  V  P ERFORMANCE  A  Detecting ASEP Hooking Operations  Inorder to test the ability of the application to detect ASEP hooking operations and alert the user, a couple of very small applications were created that would hook onto the two Windows Mobile ASEPs.  A nonharmful application that would perform this task was created because it would not be right  \(or legal\y to obtain real world viruses when a closed testing environment that could guarantee the viruses would not spread could not be provided  Two simple applications with non-harmful contents were created with installation packages.  One of the applications when installed would add a shortcut to itself in the Startup folder, and the other would add a value to the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key containing the path of the newly installed executable file  The application designed to test the monitoring of hooking operations on the Startup folder contained code that when executed would rename the shortcut that was created on installation.  Then it would change the shortcut target to point to another file.  Uninstalling the application would then remove the shortcut, to finish testing detection of the four event types  The application designed to test the monitoring of hooking operations on the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key contained code that when executed would change the registry key value that was created on installation to point to a different application.  Uninstalling the application would remove the registry value to complete the test  In all cases we found that the monitoring application was successful in notifying the user of any ASEP hooking operations that were occurring.  In addition to this all relevant data was correctly stored in the log file B  Effect on Device  We performed a test to see if the effect the monitoring application would have on a device\222s performance and battery life would be perceivable by a user.  An install package was created for the application that included a shortcut in the Startup folder so it would run every time the device was switched on The application was left running on an HTC P3600 smart phone for a period of one week of normal use as a personal phone.  The usage included regular phone calls, SMS messaging and Internet usage with a mobile broadband connection.  There was no noticeable effect on performance or on the battery life when compared to similar device usage without the application running  In order to check that the application was still active all of the tests mentioned above would be performed at random times of each day.  On each occasion, the application produced the correct output  VI  A PPLICATION U SAGE   A couple of example scenarios are presented now where the basic functionality of receiving notifications about ASEP hooking operation would prove useful as an early detection method  If a person received an MMS message claiming to contain a picture from a friend, naturally they would open it.  It is possible that the message had been sent automatically by a friend\222s phone that was infected with a virus.  A vulnerability in the way the receiving device displays photos from MMS messages could have been used to execute some malicious code installing a virus.  It would be expected that this virus would hook onto an ASEP, otherwise the user would simply be able to restart the device to neutralise it   Fig 3 ASEP Hooking Operation Alert 298 


When the ASEP hooking operation occurs a notice will appear on the users screen alerting them that it has happened.  In this situation there is no reason why you would expect an ASEP hooking operation, so the user immediately knows that a virus has installed itself and can take action to remove it  Another scenario is one where the user is attempting to install an application on their device.  This application is a third party alarm program that provides functionality that is not available with the application provided with the operating system.  This program needs to launch automatically every time the device restarts otherwise the user may not be alerted at the time they have set an alarm.  When the application installs, it hooks onto an ASEP and the user is notified This notification was expected by the user and is dismissed; the data is still saved to a log file Suddenly a second alert appears, this time with a program filename that was not expected by the user This is most likely an indication that the program came bundled with some spyware or a virus.  The user can monitor the device for any unwanted behaviour, use a virus scanner to try to remove the virus if the installation file was infected, or if the software was bundled with spyware it may be possible to remove the bundle by uninstalling it  VII  D ISCUSSION  A  Limitations There are two limitations we have identified to the ASEP monitoring method described in this paper 1   Message Interception The ASEP monitoring application assumes that the functions of the OS have not been compromised.  It is possible for a virus to intercept event notifications from the OS, stopping the application from being notified about ASEP hooking operations in the Startup folder 2   Target File Replacement It is possible for a virus to replace a file that is already set up to automatically launch on startup instead of hooking onto an ASEP itself.  Since this would not actually alter any of the ASEPS the application would not pick it up in its current form.  Future work could add the ability for the application to monitor files that have legitimate ASEP hooks B  Future Work Receiving ASEP hooking notifications can give users a good indication of when virus infections are occurring.  This is due to the rarity of legitimate hooking operations, which if occurring during normal usage would raise suspicion and call for further investigation into the application that performed it The functionality described in this paper does not provide any way of removing a virus once it is discovered, it is intended to be complimentary to existing virus removal systems such as virus scanners It could even be used to help identify new viruses by including a function that sends any new ASEP hooking log data to a central location to study trends that might indicate a virus outbreak.  Future work can incorporate ASEP monitoring into a virus removal system and test its effectiveness in aiding early virus detection and removal  VIII  C ONCLUSION  The area of mobile viruses is quite new, and as yet there has been little research done in the area.  Up until now most of the research conducted on mobile viruses has concentrated on developing worm propagation models, and very limited work has been done in the area of worm detection and removal.  All existing detection systems seem to be successful in achieving their goals, and in most cases could compliment each other to protect from the threat of mobile viruses however none of these systems aim to detect the presence of a virus at the time of installation  We have taken an idea presented in [9 abou t us ing  the concept of Auto-Start Extensibility Points \(ASEP to detect spyware at the time of installation on a PC and adapted it to detect viruses in the Windows Mobile environment.  Viruses need to be able to survive a device restart, and to do this they need to hook onto an ASEP, which is any point in the operating system where an application can be set to automatically launch without direct user interaction.  These points can be monitored to capture information about applications that set themselves to be auto-run when a device is powered on  We have identified tw o ASEPs in the Windows Mobile operating system; applications are able to place an executable or a shortcut to one in the Startup folder or they can add a value to the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key to get the operating system to launch them automatically.  Visual C#, and an add-on pack of classes called the Smart Device Framework have been used to monitor these two ASEPs, as well as log details about ASEP hooking operations and alert the user when they occur.  The Smart Device Framework provided a way of registering the application with the operating system to receive a notification every time there is a change in the Startup folder.  This enables the application to monitor this ASEP without using any extra device resources.  There however does not exist any equivalent way of monitoring the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key using Visual C# or the Smart Device Framework.  Instead, a timer has been used to manually poll the 299 


HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key for changes every five seconds, resulting in a small amount of processor usage every time the application performs the check  The tests we have conducted show that the methods described have been successful in identifying ASEP hooking operations in both the Startup folder and the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\init registry key.  Relevant data about these hooking operations has been successfully captured and stored.  Constant running of the application on a device has shown that the application does not cause any noticeable degradation in device battery life or speed when compared to similar device usage without the program running  The usefulness of the functionality described in this paper would be greatly increased if it were integrated into a full virus detection and removal system, such as being used as an early detection method to complement a signature based virus scanning system  R EFERENCES   1  G. Yan, L. Cuellar, S. Eidenbenz, H. D. Flores, N. Hengartner and V. Vu, \223Bluetooth Worm Propagation: Mobility Pattern Matters!,\224 in ASIACCS\22207, 2007, pp. 32-44 2  A. Bose and K. G. Shin, \223On Mobile Viruses Exploiting Messaging and Bluetooth Services,\224 Securecomm and Workshops, 2006, pp. 1-10 3  J. Su, K. K. W. Chan, A. G. Miklas, K. Po, A. Akhavan, S Saroiu, E. Lara and A. Goel, \223A Preliminary Investigation of Worm Infections in a Bluetooth Environment,\224 in WORM\22206 2006, pp. 9-16 4  C. Fleizach, M. Liljenstam, P. Johansson, G. M. Voelker, A M\351hes, \223Can You Infect Me Now? Malware Propagation in Mobile Phone Networks,\224 in WORM \22207, 2007, pp. 61-68 5  D. Venugopal, \223An Efficient Signature Representation and Matching Method for Mobile Devices,\224 in WICON\22206, 2006 6  J. Cheng, S. H. Y. Wong, H. Yang, S. Lu, \223SmartSiren: Virus Detection and Alert for Smartphones,\224 in MobiSys\22207, 2007 pp. 258-271 7  U. Sarwar, S. Ramadass, Rahmat Budiarto, \223A Framework for Detection Bluetooth Mobile Worms,\224 IEEE International Conference on Telecommunications, 2007, pp. 343-347 8  A. Bose, K. G. Shin, \223Pro active Security for Mobile Messaging Networks,\224 WiSe \22206, 2006, pp. 95-104 9  Y. Wang, R. Roussev, C. Verbowski, A. Johnson, M. Wu, Y Huang, S. Kuo, \223Gatekeeper: Monitoring Auto-Start Extensibility Points \(ASEPs\or Spyware Management,\224 LISA XVIII, 2004, pp 33-46 10  Microsoft, \223Configuring the Process Boot Phase\224, 2008 http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms901773.aspx 11  Askarya Technologies, \223Understanding Windows Mobile Shortcuts\224, November 2007 http://www.askarya.com/articles/winmobile_shortcuts.asp  300 


x Algorithm for the second phase: Based on the fuzzy relationship between the transitive closure of the clustering method According to the formation of sim matrix, we use fuzzy clustering to divide. The sim matrix meets symmetry and reflexiv ity, and doesn’t meet the transitivit so calculated the sim matrix’s transitive closure by square method. According to a given threshold ?, mapped the number of transitive closure to \(0,1 element in each column of R? equating 1 is the same type[6 The following analysis is PKM algorithm's time complexity. The time complexity of running M times K-means algorithm to build the sim matrix is O\(nkl*M in which n is the number of data points, k is the number of clusters, t is the number of iteration, usually k<<n and t<<n. The time complexity of using fuzzy clustering methods to divide data sets is O\(n2 complexity is O\(n2 IV. EXPERIMENT AND ANALYSIS A. Experiment 1 IRIS data set is a common-used testing data in clustering analysis. It contains 150 data points totally, be make up of three kinds of plants: Setosa, Versicolor and Virginica, and one king\(Setosa other two linear, at the same time, the rest two have partly overlap in characteristic space. Each kind has 50 data points, every data point has four numeric attributes Assume each kind of data points set is Si, data points as a matter of fact is Fi after algorithm’s completion number of cluster is K. For assessing algorithm’s clustering effect, we define clustering’s precise rate formalized Precise rate= 1 1 k i i i k i i S F S     100%, in fact 1 k 


i i i S F   indicates all correct divided data points Experimental results are as Table 1 and Table 2 TABLE 1.  CLUSTERING CORRECT RATE BY USING TRADITIONAL K-MEANS TO IRIS Choosing random clustering center fairly good Clustering result kind1 kind 2 kind 3 total cluster’s precise rate cluster 1 0 47 14 61 77 cluster 2 50 0 0 50 100 cluster 3 0 3 36 39 92.3 Precise rate=86.7 Choosing random clustering center fairly bad Clustering result kind 1 kind 2 kind 3 total cluster’s precise rate cluster 1 18 4 0 22 81.8 cluster 2 32 0 0 32 100 cluster 3 0 46 50 96 52.1 Precise rate=66.7 We can know obviously from those two tables that effect of K-means caused by initial random clustering center TABLE 2.  CLUSTERING CORRECT RATE BY USING PKM TO IRIS? M= 15 , ?=0.65 Clustering result kind 1 kind 2 kind 3 total cluster’s precise rate cluster 1 0 48 3 51 94.1 cluster 2 50 0 0 50 100 cluster 3 0 2 47 49 95.9 Precise rate=96.7 Clustering’s precise rate of PKM algorithm is higher than that of K-means, and PKM will not be affected by initial clustering center point, can divide more accurate B. Experiment 2 This experiment describes the effect of choosing attributes to PKM’s precise rate emphatically. Car Evaluation Database[5], totally has 1728 data packets 


which have 7 attributes described as  Table 3 and 526 Classification’s description as Table 4 TABLE 3.  ATTRIBUTES DESCRIBED Attribute’s name classification buying—buying price vhigh  high  med  low maint—price of the maintenance vhigh  high  med  low doors—number of doors 2  3  4  5more persons—capacity in terms of persons to carry 2  4  more lug_boot—the size of luggage boot small  med  big safety—estimated safety of the car low  med  high TABLE 4.  CLASSIFICATION’S DESCRIPTION Classification name amount percentage unacc—unacceptable 1210 70.023 acc—acceptable 384 22.222 good—good 69 3.993 vgood—very good 65 3.762 For enhancing algorithm’s performance and decreasing computing amount under the prerequisite that assuring precise rate, we only need extract some attributes appropriately to analyze and compute. We introduce the idea of informat ion gain. Information is based on entropy in information theory. Entropy is a measurement of in definitude of objects’ corresponding attributes The bigger an attribute’s entropy is, the bigger the in definitude information it has, the more beneficial to classify the data. We can choose the attribute which has higher information gain as the classification attribute Assumed S is a set of s data samples. Supposed class mark attribute has m different value, define mm d ifferent class Ci \(i=1,2,…,m class Ci. Expected informat ion for a sample classification is given by I\(s1,s2,……,sm 0 1 ij ij t j t OO O  t in  which pi is the probability of any sample belongs to Ci, can be estimated by SiS  usually Assumed attribute A has v different value a1,a2,……,av}. We can use attribute A to divide S into v subsets{S1,S2,……?Sv},in which, Sj contains the samples 


in S whose value is aj in A Assumed sij is class Ci’s sample number in subset Sj entropy based on the subsets divided by A is defined as E\(A 1 2 1 2 1  v j j j j j S S I S S S PM PM?6 ?6  Here, 1 2j jS S S PM?6  is served as weight of jth subset, and equals subset’s\(whose A value is aj number divide sample total is S. the smaller entropy is the higher pure degree of subset’s division is Pay attention, according to the expected information computing formula above, to some subset Sj, its expected information is: 1 2 1  m ij ij i p lb p   where pij =  Sij|Sij | , is the probability of samples in Sj belonging to class Ci We can get the corresponding information gain value from expected information and entropy. Information gain which will be get from div isions on A is given by the formula Gain\(A s1, s2,……, sm A Through the information gain’s computing method above, we get each attribute’s information gain in Car Evaluation data set is Gain\(buying Gain\(maint Gain\(doors Gain\(persons Gain\(lug_boot Gain\(safety According to the information gain, firstly we only choose persons and safety as testing attributes, and map 


the value of these two attributes to numeric, result of running PKM is not ideal. Result is shown in the Table 5 TABLE 5.  RESULT OF RUNNING PKM IS NOT IDEAL \(M=11, ?=0.6 Clustering result kind1 kind2 kind3 kind4 total precise rate cluster 1 673 38 8 10 729 92.3 cluster 2 214 47 17 34 312 12 cluster 3 239 205 6 19 469 43.7 cluster 4 84 94 38 5 221 17.2 Precise rate =55 527 Rechoose buying, maint, persons, safety four attributes to test, map the attributes firstly also. Result is shown in the Table 6 TABLE 6.  RESULT IS BETTER \(M=11, ?=0.6 Clustering result kind1 kind2 kind3 kind4 total precise rate cluster 1 892 39 3 5 939 95 cluster 2 101 20 8 44 173 25.4 cluster 3 97 275 7 4 383 71.8 cluster 4 120 50 51 2 223 22.9 Precise rate =73 From this experiment, we can see that choosing different attributes can affect the algorithm. So appropriate attributes can enhance algorithm’s performance effective C. Assessment of parameter Precise rate in this algorithm is affected by iteration times M and threshold value ?, section matrix is most influenced by parameter ?. The bigger parameter ? is, the higher “fuzzy degree” is[6]. Use Iris standard data to test the effect that parameter ? does to the algorithm Iteration t imes was fixed  at 21 various parameter ? affects division’s precise rate Precise rate  Threshold Figure 3.  various parameter ? affects division’s precise rate V. SUMMARY AND FORWARD This paper proposes an improved K-means numerical algorithm and eliminates the influence of traditional K-means numerical algorithm on random init ial clustering center and isolated points , which has good accuracy and effectively discern the isolated points 


Different experiments have illuminated the effectively and stability of PKM. In comparison of traditional K-means numerical algorithm, PKM has been proved with a better performance. This paper also provides tests on real traffic data, which proved the better performance of this algorithm on non-convex data set But there are some things we need to take into account in the future, like the effect of using transitive closure method on execution speed, the high time complexity to calculate equivalent matrix and parameter optimization As this numerical algorithm has a good effect on identifying the isolated points, we may use it in distinguishing the abnormalities of traffic data and other aspects in the future work ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work is supported by the National High Technology Research and Development Program of China under grant No. 2007AA01Z404 REFERENCE 1] A Fred, A K Jain, Data clustering using evidence accumulation The l6th Int’l Conf on Pattern Recognition \(ICPR 2002 Canada , 2002 2] A.K. Jain, M.N. Murty and P.J. Flynn, Data Clustering: A Review ACM Computing Surveys, 1999, 31\(3 3] Dechang Pi, Chuhua Xian, Xiaolin Qin. An improved C means clustering algorithm. International Journal of Computer Systems Science and Engineering, 2008, 23\(1 4] Jiu-Lun Fan , Wen-Zhi Zhen , Wei-Xin Xi \(2003 fuzzy c-means clustering algorithm, Pattern Recognition Letters 24\(9-10 5] KDD Cup99 Dataset . http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99 kddcup99.html,1999 6] CHAN C C.A Fuzzy set approach to attribute generalization in datamining, Journal of information science, 2000:119-176 7] FAHIM A.M., SALEM A.M. An efficient enhanced k-means clustering algorithm, Journal of Zhejiang University-Science 2006.A1626: 1626-1633 8] Y. Linde, A. Buzo, and R. M. Gray. An algorithm for Vector Quantizer Designs. IEEE Transactions on Communications, 1980 28\(1 9] S. Guha, R. Rastogi, and K. Shim. CURE: an efficient clustering algorithm for large database, Information Systems, 2001, 26\(1 35-58 10] Shui-Geng Zhou, Ao-Ying Zhou, A Fast Density—Based Clustering algorithm, Journal of Computer Research and Development,2000, 37\(11 In chinese 11] W. Wang, J. Yang, and R. Muntz. STING: A Statistical Information Grid Approach to Spatial Data Mining, The Proceeding of International Conference on Very Large Data Bases 1997, 186-195 


12] D. Fisher, Knowledge Acquisition via Incremental Conceptual Clustering ,Machine Learning, 1987, 2\(2 13] E. A. Maharaj. Cluster of time series, Journal of Classification 2000, 17\(2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 528 


systems against shilling attacks  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9  10. References  1] Lam, S., and Riedl, J. 2004. Shilling Recommender Systems for Fun and Profit, In Proceedings of the 13th International WWW Conference 2] Mehta, B., Hofmann, T., and Nejdl, W. 2007. Robust Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, 49-56 3] Mobasher, B., Burke, R., Bhaumik, R., and Williams C. 2007. Towards Trustworthy Recommender Systems: An Analysis of Attack Models and Algorithm Robustness, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, 7\(2007 4] Burke, R., Mobasher, B., and Bhaumik, R. 2005 Limited Knowledge Shilling Attacks in Collaborative Filtering Systems, In Proceedings of Workshop on Intelligent Techniques for Web Personalization 5] Konstan, J., Miller, B., Maltz, D., Herlocker, J Gordon, L., and Riedl, J. 1997.  GroupLens: Applying Collaborative Filtering to Usenet News Communications of the ACM, 40, 3\(1997 6] Herlocker, J., Konstan, J., Borchers, A., and Riedl J.1999. An Algorithm Framework for Performing Collaborative Filtering, In Proceedings of  SIGIR ACM, 77-87 7] Sarwar, B., Karypis, G., Konstan, J., and Riedl, J 2001. Item-based Collaborative Filtering of Recommendation Algorithms. In Proceedings of the 10th International WWW Conference 8] MovieLens data set,www.grouplens.org  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 Current Time \(min  Healthy Failure Expected Just-in-time line Actual Remaining Life  Figure 17. Results of failure prognosis 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 Time \(min Sp al l S iz e  m m 2 Interpolation of spall growth according to feature values 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Time \(min Fe a tu re V a lu e    Interpolation of feature value with noise Interpolation of feature vlaue snapshot with ground truth data 11 CONCLUSIONS This paper shows that enhancements to diagnostic techniques are desirable as well as attainable additions to Health and Usage Monitoring Systems \(HUMS particularly in the case of rotorcraft component monitoring Enhancements like those presented support CBM efforts primarily in two ways: reduce the sensitivity of diagnostic processes to both signal noise and variations in environmental and operating conditions, and improve the performance of detection systems as well as the task of fault identification \(e.g., severity quantification instantiation of reliable prognostics Representative examples, motivated by the interest of the U.S. Army in transitioning from time-based \(using TBO definitions drive train bearing, illustrates the potential benefits of 


pursuing an integrated approach to diagnostics and prognostics, combining technologies for enhanced data preprocessing, advanced diagnostic-support algorithms, fusion at the sensor/feature levels, and an adequate framework for false alarm mitigation and uncertainty management. An architecture for achieving such integration is presented, with emphasis on supporting a robust performance of diagnostics operations, even in the presence of such kinds of disturbances as those observed in data acquired by HUMS vibration sensors. The present study also gives relevance to seeded fault because the technologies discussed can integrate knowledge about damage mechanism interactions or physics-of-failure models, as well as make use of multiple-sensor and multiple-feature data sets representative of known fault conditions For this reason, the team behind this project is evaluating a potential opportunity to perform a series of tests on rotorcraft drive train bearings with varying fault severities and under multiple, though realistic, operating conditions Such tests are being planned to provide algorithm/model validations, as well as diagnostic/prognostic performance assessments, in support of providing the U.S. Army with technologies that make detection systems more robust allow for the implementation of prognostics, and extend the useful life of drive train components. Component degradation testing thus remains as future, follow-up work to the research reported in this document ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work has been partially supported with a cooperative agreement by the Army Research Laboratory under contract number W911NF-07-2-0075. In addition to the primary authors, we would like to thank government and contractor representatives from organizations supporting the Army Utility \(Blackhawk Estes, Mr. Carlos Rivera, and Dr. Jon Keller. This work has also benefitted greatly from consultations with other Army Research Laboratory and NASA Glenn researchers such as Dr. Timothy Krantz, Dr. David Lewicki, Dr. Harry Decker Dr. Hiralal Khatri, Mr. Ken Ranney and Mr. Kwok Tom REFERENCES 1] Branhof, R.W., Grabill, P., Grant, L., and Keller, J.A  Application of Automated Rotor Smoothing Using Continuous Vibration Measurements  American Helicopter Society 61st annual forum, Grapevine, Texas June 1  3, 2005 2] Dora, R., Wright, J., Hess, R., and Boydstun, B  Utility of the IMD HUMS in an Operational Setting on the UH60L Blackhawk  American Helicopter Society 60th annual forum, Baltimore, Maryland, May 7  10, 2004 3] Zakrajsek, J.J., Dempsey, P.J., et al  Rotorcraft Health Management Issues and Challenges  NASA report TM  2006-214022. February, 2006 4] Suggs, D.T., and Wade, D.R  Vibration Based Maintenance Credits for the UH-60 Oil Cooler Fan Assembly  American Helicopter Society, CBM Specialists Meeting, Huntsville, Alabama, February 13 2008 5] Baker, C., Marble, S., Morton, B.P., and Smith, B.J  Failure Modes and Prognostic Techniques for H-60 Tail Rotor Drive System Bearings  IEEEAC paper #1122 IEEE, 2007 6] Keller, J.A., Branhof, R., Dunaway, D., and Grabill, P  Examples of Condition Based Maintenance with the Vibration Management Enhancement Program   American Helicopter Society 61st Annual Forum Grapevine, Texas, June 1  3, 2005 7] Zhang, B., Sconyers, C., Byington, C.S., Patrick, R Orchard, M.E., and Vachtsevanos, G.J  Anomaly Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of 


Detection: A Robust Approach to Detection of Unanticipated Faults  International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management, Denver, Colorado October 6-9, 2008 8] Byington, C.S., Watson, M., Lee, H., and Hollins, M  Sensor-level Fusion to Enhance Health and Usage Monitoring Systems  American Helicopter Society, 64th Annual Forum, Montreal, Canada, April 29-May 1, 2008 9] Engel, S.J., Gilmartin, B.J., Bongort, K., and Hess, A  Prognostics, the Real Issues Involved With Predicting Life Remaining  Proceedings of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, Big Sky, Montana, March 18-25, 2000 12 BIOGRAPHY Romano Patrick is a Project Manager at Impact Technologies. He received a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology specializing in model-based machine health diagnostics and prognostics. He also holds an MBA from Georgia Tech and degrees from U Texas, Arlington and U. Panamericana, Mexico. With career focus on interdisciplinary integration of technologies, his recent work involves practicable diagnostics/prognostics design for complex systems, such as rotorcraft drive trains Past experience includes automation and design for a variety of industrial and government sponsors \(DARPA, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, etc and program coordination at U. Panamericana, and some entrepreneurial R&amp;D Matthew J. Smith is a Senior Project Engineer at Impact Technologies. During his tenure with Impact, Matthew has performed multiple efforts pertaining to bearing vibration analysis, diagnostic and prognostic system development, and experimental study of faulted system reponse and fault progression. Previously, as a research assistant at Penn State and the NASA Glenn Research Center, Matthew performed experimental and analytical oil-free bearing analyses Matthew received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from The Pennsylvania State University. His research interests include: prognostic health assessment for bearing and actuator systems, grease degradation modeling and fault classifier development Bin Zhang received his Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore in 2007. He received his BE and MSE degrees from Nanjing University of Science and Technology, China, in 1993 and 1999, respectively. He is a senior member of IEEE. From 2005 to present, he has been a Post-Doc with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA His current research interests are fault diagnosis and failure prognosis, systems and control, digital signal processing learning control, intelligent systems and their applications to robotics, power electronics and various mechanical systems Carl S. Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies. He directs R&amp;D in pursuit of advanced, automated systems health management for land-based, shipboard, and airborne machinery for military and commercial customers. He is Chairman of the Machinery Diagnostics &amp; Prognostics Committee of ASME and a member of IEEE, AIAA, SAE and AHS. He has a BS degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an MS in Aeronautical Engineering from George Washington University, and has published over 60 papers, book chapters, magazine and journal articles related to diagnostics and prognostics technologies George Vachtsevanos is Professor Emeritus at the Georgia Institute of Technology and also serves as the Chief Scientist at Impact Technologies, LLC. He directed the Intelligent Control Systems laboratory at Georgia Tech for the past 28 years where faculty and students are conducting research in fault diagnosis/prognosis and fault-tolerant control of engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial 


engineering systems, intelligent control of industrial processes, neurotechnology and cardiotechnology, and unmanned systems. His research work has been sponsored by government and industry and has published over 250 technical papers in his area of expertise. He is the lead author of a book on "Intelligent Fault Diagnosis and Prognosis of Engineering Systems" published by Wiley in 2006. He is the recipient of the Georgia Tech Interdisciplinary Activities award and the ECE Distinguished Professor award Romeo de la Cruz del Rosario, Jr. is the Chief of the Electronics Technology Branch at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. He also serves as the Army Technology Objective ATO P&amp;D Operational Readiness and Condition Based Maintenance He received the B.E.E. degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., and the M.S.E. and Ph.D degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD. Since 1991 he has been an engineer at the Harry Diamond Laboratory then U.S Army Research Laboratory working in several areas including high power microwave technology characterization &amp; modeling of heterostructure RF devices and fabrication and failure analysis of electron devices and circuits  pre></body></html 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





