html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Ontology  Modeling for Goal Driven E-Government   Peter Salhofer FH JOANNEUM University of Applied Sciences, Graz peter.salhofer@fh-joanneum.at   Bernd Stadlhofer FH JOANNEUM University of Applied Sciences, Graz bernd.stadlhofer@fh-joanneum.at   Abstract This paper presents an approach to model ontologies in the e-Government domain so that they can be easily used to assist a citizen in formally expressing a goal that can in turn be used for service discovery. This process is also known as  goal discovery  and can become relatively complex depending on the regulations that have to be applied By introducing some guidelines and constraints on the model, this process can be simplified and complexity can be hidden from the user. We found that the concept tree, used to guide the user in uniquely identifying the goal, is a good basis to start with, since it is easy to use and also easy to maintain in comparison to other approaches. Our next steps will be to automatically generate forms based on ontologies 1. Introduction The basic idea of the approach presented in this paper is based on comprehensive experience in some eGovernment implementation projects with a clear focus on G2C \(Government to citizen solutions are becoming increasingly mature and fully transactional[1], the actual interaction between system and citizens, which in most cases is a form that has to be filled in, is becoming the central point of the application. Users expect ?intelligent? forms that are able to perform interactive plausibility checks on the information just filled in as well as auto-completion of fields. Thus more and more logic is integrated in the form itself which undermines well established software system design patterns like the Model View Controller pattern \(MVC  postulates the separation of every software application into the layers model \(the data the application works with elements that are used to display model elements controls how model elements are manipulated enhanced maintainability of the entire system Over the last couple of years the application of semantic methodologies and technologies in the eGovernment domain has become an important field of research. A significant number of these approaches aim at automatic service discovery and service orchestration[3][4] by adding and utilizing semantic annotations to web services Semantic methodologies can be used to add a layer of logic to any \(text based see Figure 1 Thus the idea was born to use semantic methodologies in a more forward-engineering approach to create a semantic model first and to use this model e.g. as the basis for the automatic creation of ?intelligent? web forms The principle is rather straightforward. Every public service is semantically modeled and contains references to the required input elements. Any 


references to the required input elements. Any constraints on the service input element ? also known as preconditions - can be expressed by semantic rules and evaluated by semantic reasoners. This allows for an automatic creation of \(web plausibility checks of data gathered from the user Instead of scattering logic over numerous functions and procedures in all possible layers of an application, it is now consistently kept in the semantic model. Another key advantage of this approach is that the knowledge of public services becomes available in a machine processable form which allows for much more than Figure 1: The Semantic Web Tower[5 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE just form creation. Discovering the citizen's actual goal is one of these use-cases and is actually the first step that has to be taken. Even if all frameworks for modeling semantic web services contain the notion of goals that is used for service discovery, the process of expressing goals can become rather complex 2. GEA-PA ? an e-government metamodel To ensure that all public services are modeled in a consistent way, a meta-model that acts as a modeling guideline is needed. Therefore we choose a model proposed in the Government Enterprise Architecture Public Administration \(GEA-PA  Figure 2 GEA-PA is technology neutral. Thus it does not make any assumption about the semantic framework or the nature of the actual implementations of public services, hence most often they will be implemented as web services. It also models goals and needs to link citizens \(societal entities services. This allows for goal-oriented discovery of public services that do not necessarily have to be implemented as \(semantic 3. Goal-oriented e-government One big advantage of semantic web services is the goal oriented approach they are based on. There are numerous services available on the web. They contain a semantic description of what they do or achieve Before a user can make use of one \(or more services, the following phases have to be passed through[7 z Goal discovery phase: In this phase the actual goal of the user has to be correctly formulated using semantic notations z Semantic web service discovery phase: A set of semantic web services that might fulfill the goal is retrieved z Service selection phase: The web service that will actually be executed is selected from the set of retrieved services This paper focuses on the goal discovery phase and the identification of a public service \(and not a web service implementing it goal. Formulating the goal using any of the semantic methodologies can become relatively difficult. This is due to the fact that the problem domain itself can be relatively complex and, since this process involves user interaction, a simple and easy to use interface for formulating the goal is needed In our prototype implementation of goal driven eGovernment we have limited the problem domain to the construction approval process. According to the construction law that has to be applied in this example there are three different categories any construction might fall into z Building development requiring official 


z Building development requiring official approval: In this case you have to apply for approval which will trigger a fairly complex process z Notifiable building development: In this case you have to notify the responsible public agency providing detailed information about the project. The agency can prohibit the project within six weeks. Otherwise approval is granted z Building development not requiring official approval: In this case you just have to inform the responsible public agency about when construction work will start and provide some basic information about the project Which of these services is needed for a given project depends on the type but also probably the size or extent of the structure. The correct answer to this question requires some in-depth knowledge PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ENTITY SERVICE PROVIDER CONCEQUENCE RECEIVER EVIDENCE PROVIDER PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SERVICE SOCIETAL ENTITY NEEDGOAL OUTCOME CONSEQUENCE EFFECT OUTPUT PRECONDITION EVIDENCE PLACEHOLDER PIECE OF EVIDENCE PURPOSE OF EVIDENCE hasRole hasRole hasRole offers requests produces hasType hasType hasType has relatesTo serves isGovernedBy isValidatedBy isServedBy requires requires Contains provides Figure 2: The GEA-PA service model[6 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 oconstruction law. To offer these services via eGovernment to citizens you also have to provide some easy to use means of identifying the required service This is done by semantic goal and service discovery 4.   Selecting the semantic modeling framework There are currently several competing frameworks for modeling semantic web services submitted to the W3C. Among them is OWL-S[8] and WSMO[9]. We 


W3C. Among them is OWL-S[8] and WSMO[9]. We implemented evaluation prototypes based on both approaches and eventually chose WSMO which is based on WSML[10] over OWL-S which is layered on top of OWL[11]. While a detailed discussion of the differences between these two approaches can be found in [12] and [13], here we will simply state the reasons for our decision  Listing 1: A simple OWL example  Listing 2: A simple WSML example One basic idea of our approach is its forward engineering nature. This means, that we want to start new e-Government projects by modeling the ontology first and then using this ontology as a domain model to form the basis of the generation of an application or service. In contrast to this, semantic technologies are usually used to add annotations to already existing services. In our context, the ontology can be compared to a platform independent model \(PIM model driven architecture[14].  Since the ontology is the key element, we had to look for a modeling approach that is simple and yet expressive and powerful enough to cover all possible aspects that might be needed for creating a runtime environment that is based on this model  While OWL is based on XML, WSML can be seen as a domain specific language based on Meta Object Facility \(MOF  XML overhead in WSML. Listing 1 and Listing 2 represent the same facts. Every person has a name and parents. It is obvious that the WSML version is easier to read, which is definitely an advantage in this case since models can be easily created and reviewed by authors even without the use of tools  Besides the expressive notation of WSML there exists a language variant called WSML-Flight, which supports logic programming based on F-Logic[16]. In contrast to OWL, this approach favors the closed world assumption, which makes the formulation of logical constraints much easier. As you can see, another minor difference is the terminology. OWL uses the term class whereas WSMO uses term concept for the abstraction of a thing. Both terms can be used synonymously 5. Modeling the ontology As mentioned above, the first services that should be supported by this new approach are construction approval services. These services are governed by a local construction law. Thus this law is an important source for modeling the required ontology since it contains all needed concepts and the logical rules and requirements that form the basis of the public agency's actions. Even though some attempts to automatically extract semantic information from laws[17][18 already exist, we conducted this step manually identifying needed concepts and their interdependencies by carefully analyzing the text Other important sources, especially for modeling the attributes of identified concepts, are existing \(paper based to be a property of one of the concepts involved \(e.g family name? is a property of the person concept acting as builder in this context While modeling the ontology for the construction approval domain, it became clear that it is relatively hard for non experts to even find out which one of the existing services \(see 3 whether any service is needed at all. This is why we have introduced goals/desires to guide the user while 


have introduced goals/desires to guide the user while selecting the appropriate service Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 5.1. Goal templates Goals are elements in all frameworks that are used to describe semantic web services. Since they are used to describe the capability of these services they typically exist at a relatively low and technical layer[9]. In the context of this paper we use the term goal as a synonym for the terms desire or need as they are suggested by GEA-PA[6]. An abstract, yet typical goal in the given context would be I want to {build|knock down|rebuild} a structure This goal is a typical semantic triple consisting of subject \(?I?, the citizen build? or ?knock down? or ?rebuild structure level goals reflect what citizens might want to do or want to achieve \(e.g ?to build something make it easy to identify appropriate goals that fit the needs of a particular life-situation. At this top-level, a goal typically cannot be uniquely mapped to one single service. Therefore every goal has to be refined so that it becomes a concrete one like I want to build a garage However, this still does not unambiguously identify the required service since in this example the required type of service depends on the type and number of motor vehicles that will be parked in the garage. Thus we would need a more specific goal like I want to build a garage for three cars Which type of approval or service is actually needed is clearly defined in the underlying regulations Assuming that the applicable law is consistent ? which is typically the case - this approach does not lead to any goal conflicts since every possible case falls into exactly one category and is therefore assigned to one particular service After analyzing the construction law, a model containing all concepts/classes was created. Since the construction law sometimes referred to more abstract concepts \(e.g. ?building specific ones \(e.g. ?detached family house resulting concepts formed a hierarchy. The top-level concept that could be used in the goal template is construction?. All other identified concepts representing more specific types of a construction are modeled as sub-concepts resulting in a tree of concepts  The basic idea of the goal discovery process was to start with a goal template containing the most abstract concept \(e.g. ?construction? or ?structure the user in refining these concepts by specialization until the administrative service that is needed to fulfill this goal can be unambiguously identified. The goal discovery algorithm is explained in 6 5.2. Specialization and classification An ontology is defined as [19  OT := C,T,?C ,?T , R, A, sA, sR,?R,?A Consisting of a set of concepts C aligned in a hierarchy ?C ,  a set of Relations R with ?R the signature sR : R ? C  C,  a set of datatypes T with ?T ,  a set of attributes A with ?A the signature sA : A ? C  T  A similar definition of an ontology not including datatypes can be found in [20 The is_a relationship between to classes is defined as follows 


as follows c1 ?C c2 c1,c2 ? C c1 is subconcept of c 2 The is_a relationship is transitive c1 ?C c2 ? c2 ?C c3 c1 ?C c3 Defining a function attr\(c attr c that returns the set of attributes belonging to a given concept c the following statements also hold true c1 ?C c2 c1,c2 ? C attr c2  This means that all sub-concepts contain all the attributes of all their super-concepts but might also posses additional attributes. Since a concept might also have several direct super-concepts, the following statement has to be true Figure 3: Part of the concept hierarchy Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 c1 ?C c2 ? c1 ?C c3 c1,c2,c3 ? C c2 ? c3  c2 ? c3 ? c3 ? c2 attr c2     Sub-concepts are also called specializations of their super-concepts since they are more specific. In our ontology model, however, we use two different types of sub-concepts.  One is classical specialization. For example garage is a sub-concept of building. The second type of a sub-concept is no real specialization but more a kind of classification. As mentioned above which type of administrative service needs to be used when building a garage depends on the size of the garage, which in turn is defined by law referring to the type and number of vehicles that will be parked there Therefore we have defined three sub-concepts called small-, medium- and big-garage. These sub-concepts represent different classes of garages rather than more specific types of garages. Consequently one characteristic of classification compared to specialization is that attributes of sub- and superconcepts will be identical c1 ?C c2  attr c2  in the case of classification The difference between sub- and super-concepts in the case of classification lies in the domains \(i.e values differences can be modeled by axioms which are used by the reasoner. Thus, having given any instance of the concept garage, the reasoner can infer the correct subconcept it belongs to by analyzing number and type of vehicles parked there 6. The goal discovery algorithm Initially based on the GEA-PA model, we have refined and adapted parts of this model as shown in Figure 4  A goal might refer to one or more concepts \(e.g. ?I want to build a {construction to goals. There might be several services that fulfill a goal \(e.g. in our construction approval example there are three different services of goal and a concrete \(sub identifies the service needed. This assumption is based on the following constraints z Every concept that has sub-concepts is considered to be abstract z Every concept that has no sub-concepts \(a leaf in the concept graph abstract z Public services only accept instances of concrete, non-abstract concepts This allows for a very simple algorithm z Start with a goal template 


z Start with a goal template z For each concept the goal template refers to go down the concept hierarchy till a leaf is reached z Lookup the matching service  As shown in Figure 5, these constraints do not impose any limits on our approach. Assuming that there is a concept b, that has sub-concepts and is not abstract \(i.e instances of this type are valid input to services concept hierarchy can by remodeled by declaring b abstract and introducing a non abstract concept b' with the following behavior attr b  a b c a b c b Figure 5: Non-abstract concept b is replaced by b b is made abstract Goal Concept\(s Sub-Concept refers  to Public Service Sub-ConceptSub-ConceptSub-Concept is  subconcept fulfills e ligible  for Figure 4: Refined goal service relationship Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 In this case an instance of the formerly non-abstract concept b is needed, an instance of concept b' is used  The entire algorithm represents the following function findService g,c  where g is a goal and c is a possibly empty set of concepts  The central part of this algorithm is traversing the tree of concepts. There are two different methods to identify the required sub-concept. In the case of real specialization, the user has to select the appropriate sub-concept from a list as shown in Figure 6. The question always follows the same pattern You want to {build| knock down | ...} a currenConcept}. Please further specify the type of currentConcept  Figure 6: Prototypic user dialog for selecting a subconcept [German Possible answers are the sub-concepts of currentConcept. In use-cases where there are many different concepts organized in multiple hierarchies this approach might be perceived as being a little onerous. Therefore, we are already considering about integrating some search facility as well   Figure 7: Prototypic user interface to specify attribute values that are needed for semantic reasoning In the case of classification, the prototype system analyses the axioms and asks for the attributes that are evaluated to infer the correct sub-concept \(see Figure 7 reasoner  


 7. Walkthrough example To point out the functionality of the presented approach we will provide a short walkthrough example in this section. Let's assume we want to build a socalled 'adjoining building'. This type of building is usually relatively small, close to an existing building and not used for living in. They are typically used as stables, storage space, private workshops or similar Assuming that we have found the public agency's goal definition web page we can go along to identify the goal that best reflects what we want. Thus, we will start with I want to build a structure We select this goal and are now asked the following question You want to build a structure. Please further specify the type of structure From the list of available options we select building?. Now almost the same question as before shows up. This time we are asked to further specify the type of building that we want to develop. From the list of available options we select ?adjoining building?. So far the system has used specialization to navigate through the tree of concepts. Now, however, the system recognizes that there are some axioms that can be used to infer the concrete class of adjoining building. Among these axioms is the following  axiom AxSmallAdjoiningBuildingForAgricultureAndForestry definedBy x memberOf SmallAdjoiningBuildingForAgricultureAndForestry impliedBy x[totalArea hasValue ?totalArea, numberFloors hasValue numberFloors habitable hasValue ?habitable, floorHeight hasValue floorHeight, forAgriculturalUse hasValue ?forAgriculturalUse memberOf AdjoiningBuilding and ?numberFloors &lt; 2 and wsml#equal\(_boolean\("false and ?floorHeight =&lt; 3 and ?totalArea =&lt; 40 and wsml#equal\(_boolean\("true forAgriculturalUse  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 The meaning of this axiom is almost selfexplanatory. There is some x that pretends to be an AdjoiningBuilding and therefore has to have some attributes. If the values of these attributes meet the constraints of the axiom than this x is a SmallAdjoiningBuildingForAgricultureAndForestry The system analyses all available axioms that can be applied to adjoining buildings and presents a form containing all attributes that are used in these axioms In this case we have to fill in the total area, the number of floors, room height, usage \(whether the building is used for agriculture or forestry whether the building will be habitable. We fill in all values according to our plan. Since we also want to have a guest room in the new building, we declare it as habitable. The applicable law, however, defines that an adjoining building cannot be habitable! Thus our adjoining building is not recognized by any of the axioms. Since an adjoining building is a sub-concept of buildings, all axioms that can be applied to buildings can and will be used in this case as well. One of the available axioms it this one  axiom AxSmallResidentialHouse 


axiom AxSmallResidentialHouse definedBy x memberOf SmallResidentialHouse impliedBy x[totalArea hasValue ?totalArea, numberFloors hasValue numberFloors, habitable hasValue ?habitable] memberOf Buildings and wsml#equal\(_boolean\("true and ?totalArea &lt; 600 and ?numberFloors =&lt; 3  If there is some x of type Buildings with some attributes that meet the given constraints than this building is a SmallResidentialHouse. Thus the project that we plan has to be submitted as a small residential house and not as an adjoining building. This has important consequences for selecting the appropriate approval. The system has selected the appropriate service based on our input This example shows the potential of semantic technologies. Even though we have already been in a wrong branch of our class hierarchy \(that could also be seen as a decision tree to the correct concept by evaluating the available axioms 8. Related work A very interesting approach of goal formulation can be found in [21]. The tool described there supports ontology guided as well as natural language input Systems that process natural language need a significant amount of training that covers almost all terms of the problem domain. The paper also mentions that people who start using the system prefer the guided approach since their first results with natural language are relatively poor, whereas more experienced users prefer the natural language approach. This leads to the conclusion that people first learn the terms that are understood by the system. In the case of e-Government, however, where the system is not used that frequently by an individual, this learning effect will most likely not happen. Thus the natural language approach does not seem to be very promising Another relatively similar approach is described in 22]. Instead of identifying a single service that meets a given goal, this approach is capable of identifying an entire workflow composed of several services potentially offered by different public authorities Since they do not use any of the established semantic frameworks, they had to develop their own reasoning algorithms. The basic principles are very similar Wheras in our approach a goal is further  specified by selecting and specifying concepts that are related to the goal, in this approach a so called user profile is used This user profile also contains information about concepts involved \(e.g. whether a new business will have employees from the actual concepts and are maintained in a separate attribute tree. They also mention, that the user profile information is gathered in an online interview session but do not present any further details about this step. The discovery algorithm used, takes the goal and the user profile \(i.e. a set of attributes and their values as input and calculates a directed graph of tasks based on rules and task dependencies. This leads to some redundancy since attributes have to be maintained in the rules as well as the tree that is used for gathering the user profile Another approach using almost the same technologies as we do, is presented in [23]. Whereas the system described in [22], as well as our method uses goals in combination with additional information 


uses goals in combination with additional information user profile or related concepts respectively approach uses a tree of goals that is defined using WSMO concepts. Instead of composing a tree by creating a concept hierarchy \(using the sub-concept construct concepts \(with attributes like ?hasParentNode? and hasChildNode approach, only leaves of the tree are non-abstract Thus, they also have to traverse the tree. In contrast to our approach that uses specialization and classification Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 to navigate through the tree, they use questions that are also stored as text attributes in the nodes hasQuestion approach uses an auxiliary citizen ontology that is specific to the goal tree of a given domain. When extending this approach to other domains, another specific user ontology has to be modeled 9. Conclusions The approach to using semantic technologies in eGovernment presented in this paper is a first step towards an ontology based process to implement eGovernment services, where modeling the ontology should be one of the first steps. Goal and service discovery is one important part of this type of eGovernment solution. In this project we have seen that expressing the citizen's goal in a way that can be used to unambiguously determine required services probably might go beyond the capabilities of existing frameworks and needs some smart tool support. Using semantic reasoners to identify the concepts involved is very powerful and can hide much of the complexity of underlying regulations from citizens. The concept tree used in this example to guide the user in identifying the concept actually involved in her goal is a good basis to start with, since it is easy to use compared to other approaches like the one described in [21]. At any time based on a set of attribute values, the reasoner is still able to identify a concept in a different branch of the tree as the correct one, thus bringing the user back to the correct path Paper forms that were used to identify additional concepts and their attributes contain fields for all possible cases and are therefore almost always potentially overloaded. Intelligent electronic forms that know the current context they are running in would greatly simplify interaction with public agencies. Thus one of our next steps will be to automatically generate forms based on ontologies   10. References 1]  Layne, K and Lee, J., Developing Full Functional E-government: A Four Stage Model, in Government Information Quarterly,  2001, pp122-136 2]  Steve Burbeck, Applications Programming in Smalltalk-80\(TM MVC www.cs.uiuc.edu/users/smarch/st-docs/mvc.html 3]  Liuming Lu and Guojin Zhu and Jiaxun Chen, An Infrastructure for E-Government Based on Semantic Web Services, in SCC '04: Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Services Computing, IEEE Computer Society, 2004, pp483-486 4]  Charles Crichton and Jim Davies and Jeremy Gibbons and Steve Harris and Aadya Shukla, Semantic frameworks for e-government, in ICEGOV '07 Proceedings of the 1st international conference on Theory and practice of electronic governance, ACM 2007, pp30-36 


5]  Tim Berners-Lee, Semantic Web - XML2000 2000, http://www.w3.org/2000/Talks/1206-xml2ktbl/slide10-0.html 6]  X.Wang et al, WSMO-PA: Formal Specification of Public AdministrationService Model on Semantic Web Service Ontology, in Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2007 HICSS, 2007, 1-10 7]  Christine Leitner \(Ed The State of Affairs, 2003, http://www.eeuropeawards.org/view_extern.asp?id=4706 8]  Martin D., Paolucci M., McIlraith S., Burstein M McDermott D., McGuinness D., Parsia B., Payne T Sabou M., Solanki M., Srinivasan N. and Sycara K Bringing Semantics to Web Services:The OWL-S Approach, in Proceedings of the 1st Internation Workshop on Semantic Web Services and Web Process Composition, Springer, 2005, pp.22-42 9]  Fensel, D., Lausen, H., Polleres, A., Bruijn, J.d Stollberg, M., Roman, D. and Domingue, J., Enabling Semantic Web Services: The Web Service Modeling Ontology, in Enabling Semantic Web Services: The Web Service Modeling Ontology, Springer, Secausus NJ, 2007 10]  Jos de Bruijn, Holger Lausen, Axel Polleres and Dieter Fensel, The Web Service Modeling Language WSML: An Overview, in The Semantic Web Research and Applications, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4011, Springer, 2006, pp590-604 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 11]  W3C, OWL Web Ontology LanguageOverview 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-features 12]  Axel Polleres, Ruben Lara and Dumitru Roman D4.2v01 Formal Comparison WSMO/OWL-S, 2004 http://www.wsmo.org/2004/d4/d4.2/v0.1/20040315 13]  Jos de Bruijn, Ruben Lara, Axel Polleres, Dieter Fensel, OWL DL vs. OWL Flight: Conceptual Modeling andReasoning for the Semantic Web, in WWW '05: Proceedings of the 14th international conference on World Wide Web, ACM, 2005 14]  Object Management Group, MDA Guide Version 1.0.1, 2003, http://www.omg.org/docs/omg/03-0601.pdf 15]  OMG, Meta Object Facility \(MOF 2002, http://www.omg.org/docs/formal/02-04-03.pdf 16]  Michael Kifer and Georg Lausen and James Wu Logical foundations of object-oriented and framebased languages, in Journal of the ACM \(JACM 1995 17]  Erich Schweighofer and Andreas Rauber and Michael Dittenbach, International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Law, in Proceedings of the 8th international conference on Artificial intelligence and law, ACM, 2001, pp78-87 18]  Biagioli, C., Francesconi, E., Passerini, A Montemagni, S., and Soria, Automatic semantics extraction in law documents, in Proceedings of the 10th international Conference on Artificial intelligence and Law, ACM, 2005, pp133-140 19]  M. Ehrig and P. Haase and N. Stojanovic Similarity for ontologies - a comprehensive framework, in In Workshop Enterprise Modelling and Ontology: Ingredients for    Interoperability, at PAKM 2004, DEC 2004, , 2004 20]  Stephan Bloehdorn, Peter Haase, York Sure and Johanna Voelker, D.6.6.1 Report on the integration ofML, HLT and OM, 2005, http://www.stiinnsbruck.at/fileadmin/documents/deliverables/Sekt/se kt-d-6-6-1-Int._ML__HLT__OM.pdf 21]  Juan Miguel Gomez, Mariano Rico and Francisco Garc  a-Sanchez, GODO: Goal Oriented Discovery for 


Garc  a-Sanchez, GODO: Goal Oriented Discovery for Semantic WebServices, 2006 http://godo.atosorigin.es/wpcontent/uploads/2007/10/godo_iswc06v2.pdf 22]  Soon Ae Choon, Vijayalakshmi Atluri, Nabil R Adam, Domain knowledge-based automatic workflow generation, in DEXA 2002 : database and expert systems applications, Lecture notes in computer science, , , pp. 81-92 23]  Loutas Nikolaos, Peristeras Vassilios, Goudos Sotirios K., Tarabanis Konstantinos, Facilitating the Semantic Discovery of eGovernment Services: The SemanticGov Portal, in EDOC Conference Workshop 2007. EDOC apos;07. Eleventh International IEEEVolume, , 2007, pp. 157-164   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 pre></body></html 


He is a Professional Engineer, an IEEE Fellow, and an ASME Fellow. He has received the 3M Research Award for electronics packaging, the IEEE Award for chairing key Reliability Standards, and the IMAPS William D. Ashman Memorial Achievement Award for his contributions in electronics reliability analysis. He has written over twenty books on electronic products development, use, and supply chain management. He served as chief editor of the IEEE Transactions on Reliability for eight years and on the advisory board of IEEE Spectrum. He has been the chief editor for Microelectronics Reliability for over eleven years and an associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technology. He is visiting Professor at City University of Hong Kong and Director of the Center for Advanced Life Cycle Engineering \(CALCE and the Electronic Products and Systems Consortium at the University of Maryland. He has also been leading a research team in the area of prognostics, and formed the Prognostics and Health Management Consortium at the University of Maryland. He has consulted for over 50 major international electronics companies, providing expertise in strategic planning, design, test, prognostics, IP, and risk assessment of electronic products and systems   pre></body></html 


4] M. Bishop  What is computer security  IEEE Sec. Priv. Mag., vol. 1 no. 1, pp. 67  69, Jan.-Feb. 2003 5] B. Farquhar  One approach to risk assessment  Computers and Security, vol. 10, no. 10, pp. 21  23, February 1991 6] G. Stoneburner, A. Goguen, and A. Feringa  Risk management guide for information technology systems  National Institute of Standards and Technology \(NIST Publication 800-30, July 2002 7] R. Fredriksen, M. Kristiansen, B. A. Gran, K. Stolen, T. A. Opperud and T. Dimitrakos  The coras framework for a model-based risk management process  in SAFECOMP  02: Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computer Safety, Reliability and Security London, UK: Springer-Verlag, 2002, pp. 94  105 8] C. Alberts, A. Dorofee, J. Stevens, and C. Woody  Introduction to the OCTAVE approach  Carnegie Mellon - Software Engineering Institute Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890, Tech. Rep., August 2003 9] DCSSI  Expression des Besoins et Identi?cation des Objectifs de Scurit EBIOS  General Secretariat of National Defence Central Information Systems Security Division \(DCSSI 2004 10] ISO/IEC  ISO/IEC 27005:2007, Information technology - Security techniques - Information security risk management  November 2007 11] BSI  IT Grundschutz Manual  2004. [Online]. Available http://www.bsi.de/english/gshb/manual/download/index.html 12] M. Vitale  The growing risks of information systems success  MIS Quarterly, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 327  334, December 1986 13] K. Bandyopadhyay and P. Mykytyn  A framework for integrated risk management in information technology  Management Decision, vol. 37 no. 5/6, pp. 437  444, 1999 14] C. Jung, I. Han, and B. Suh  Risk analysis for electronic commerce using case-based reasoning  International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance &amp; Management, vol. 8, pp. 61  73, 1999 15] W. Baker and L. Wallace  Is information security under control?: Investigating quality in information security management  IEEE Security and Privacy, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 36  44, 2007 16] R. Baskerville  Information systems security design methods: Implications for information systems development  ACM Computing Surveys vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 375  414, December 1993 17] ISO/IEC  ISO/IEC 27001:2005, Information technology - Security techniques - Information security management systems - Requirements  2005 18] W. Baker, L. Rees, and P. Tippett  Necessary measures: metric-driven information security risk assessment and decision making  Communications of the ACM, vol. 50, no. 10, pp. 101  106, 2007 19] S. Frosdick  The techniques of risk analysis are insuf?cient in themselves  Disaster Prevention and Management, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 165  177, 1997 20] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, M. Klemen, and E. Weippl  Security Ontologies Improving Quantitative Risk Analysis  in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS  07 IEEE Computer Society, Jan 2007, pp. 156  162 21] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, G. Goluch, and E. Weippl  Ontological Mapping of Common Criteria  s Security Assurance Requirements  in New Approaches for Security, Privacy and Trust in Complex Environments Proceedings of the IFIP TC 11 22nd International Information Security Conference, IFIPSEC2007, May 14-16, ser. IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, H. Venter, M. Eloff, L. Labuschagne J. Eloff, and R. von Solms, Eds., vol. 232/2007. Sandton, South Africa International Federation for Information Processing, May 2007, pp. 85  95, 978-0-387-72366-2 22] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, T. Neubauer, and E. Weippl  Formal threat descriptions for enhancing governmental risk assessment  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance. ACM Press, 2007 23] T. Neubauer, A. Ekelhart, and S. Fenz  Interactive Selection of ISO 27001 Controls under Multiple Objectives  in Proceedings of the IFIP TC 11 23rd International Information Security Conference, IFIPSec 2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 


2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 24] T. Neubauer, C. Stummer, and E. Weippl  Workshop-based Multiobjective Security Safeguard Selection  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security ARES IEEE Computer Society, 2006, pp. 366  373 25] T. Neubauer and C. Stummer  Interactive Decision Support for multiobjective COTS Selection  in Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, no. 01, 2007 26    Extending Business Process Management to Determine Ef?cient IT Investments  in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, 2007, pp. 1250  1256 27] W3C  OWL - web ontology language  http://www.w3.org/TR/owlfeatures/, February 2004 28] J. Burtles, Principles and Practice of Business Continuity: Tools and Techniques. Rothstein Associates Inc., 2007 29] T. R. Peltier, Information Security Risk Analysis, 2nd ed. Auerbach Publications, 2005 30] S. Kairab and L. Kelly, A Practical Guide to Security Assessments Boston, MA, USA: Auerbach Publications, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


well as from practitioners, is available, IL strategy including DWH/BI strategy IL strategies are addressed at all, either actual artifacts/documents are proposed without an integrating meta model/methodology, or the strategy making process is described without proposing specific and consistent result templates/structures Since it consumes a significant amount of resources and may constitute significant potentials for business, IL needs strategy. IL strategy must not be limited to hardware/software selection and architectural considerations, but should address the entire business scope of sourcing services, integrating acquired and self-made services into customer-oriented IL solutions, and delivering such solutions to create customer value Our survey of the state of IL strategy in practice reveals that IL sourcing, IL delivery and IL portfolio strategies are regarded as important strategy components. The larger companies are, the more international their focus is, and the more their IL is organized according to the CC model, the more components of a supply-chain oriented explicit IL strategy they are likely to have deployed The IIM model provides a suitable conceptual foundation for structuring such strategy components and also provides best practices from IT management which often can be easily adapted to IL. Regarding IL product/service development and maintenance certain functional oriented strategy sub-components are differentiated in our framework. These strategy components are adapted from an established data management functional framework in order to reflect IL specifics. While traditional, more technically oriented sub-components such as system and data architecture are covered in most companies, business oriented components like change management and project/business requirements management are covered less frequently. Additional research is necessary to develop appropriate solution components based on existing fragments and experiences Based on a more complete comprehension of IL strategy and its components, the strategy development and update process needs to be addressed in future research as well. Instead of developing and updating business strategies, IT strategies and IL strategies in independent processes, dependencies and cycles need to be addressed. A comprehensive understanding of IL strategy and respective processes may also serve as a foundation for establishing maturity models, reference models and best practices  References 1] Arnott, D. and G. Pervan, Eight key issues for the decision support systems discipline. Decision Support Systems 44\(3  2] Baum  l, U., Strategic Agility through Situational Method Construction. Proceedings of the European Academy of Management Annual Conference 2005, 2005  3] Burton, B., et al., Activity Cycle Overview: Business Intelligence and Information Management. Gartner Research G00138711, 2006  4] Chan, J.O., Optimizing Data Warehousing Strategies Communications of the IIMA, 5\(1  5] Earl, M., Management Strategies for Information Technology, Prentice Hall, New York et al., 1989  6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





