Using Demographic Migration Theory to Explore Why People Switch Between Online Games Avus C.Y. Hou Department of Information Management National Taiwan University d93725009@ntu.edu.tw Ching-Chin Chern Department of Information Management National Taiwan University cchern@im.ntu.edu.tw Houn-Gee Chen Department of Information Management National Taiwan University 
hgchen@ntu.edu.tw Yu-Chen Chen Department of  Business Administration Soochow University cyc@scu.edu.tw Abstract Online gaming has become a popular leisure-time activity in resent years. In this study, we adopted the Push-Pull-Mooring Model, which analyzes human migration behavior based on the Demographic Migration Theory, to explain why players switch from an existing game to a new one. An empirical survey was conducted to collect data from 574 online gamers and then this data was analyzed using the Structural Equation Modeling \(SEM\. The results 
indicated that the Push-Pull-Mooring Model can be extended to explain the switching intentions of online game players. It appears that the "Mooring effects have a stronger influence on playersê switching intentions than "Pull effects", while "Push effects have no influence. Finally, this article discusses the implications of our findings and offer possible avenues for management at online game providers to understand their customers better Keywords Switching Intention; Online Gaming Push-Pull-Mooring Model 1. Introduction As more families gain access to broadband, online gaming is becoming a mainstream leisure activity on 
the Internet. The online game market has grown rapidly in recent years. In US, for example, the value of the market has escalated to $4 billion dollars in 2008. Similarly, in Asia-Pacific, the market value is estimated to US$1,840 million in 2008, compared to US$760 million in  Online game providers generate revenue from two sources: subscription-fee and sale the powerful virtual items to players. These two sources are not related to selling the software license directly to the players, so the problem of software piracy does not arise. This special feature of online game business guarantees the profits of the game providers 
Therefore, numerous companies enter into the market to share the pie, which escalates competition e to high involvement of online gaming, players need to expend a great deal of efforts training themselves for achieving higher game skill, and then they can enjoy the games afterw ce, pla y ers are usually absorbed in one game for a certain period of time. After the period, most players will switch between games at some state because they have tendencies of pursuing fresh entertainments. Hence to attract players to switch to a new game or to retain players to stay in the current game are both important issues for online game providers. However, studies 
related to these two issues are still insufficient  comprehensive work is thus needed to understand more about this topic  The online game creates a virtual world to allow gamers to perform virtual roles of their choices with develop online carrier with other players who share common interests. Therefore, gamers are like residents in a virtual world when they are in game playing. When players switch between games, they analogically switch between different virtual worlds and thus the switching behavior can be treated as migration among virtual worlds. Therefore, it is 
appropriate that we can analyze switching between online games with human migration model which scholars frequently used to explain migration in real life Researchers in the marketing field explain consumersê switching behaviors by using the Push-Pull-Mooring \(PPM\ model as a theoretical framework e als o ad op ted th e PP M m odel to  explore online game playersê switching intentions Empirical data were collected from 574 online gamers and were assessed and analyzed by Structure Equation Modeling \(SEM\through LISREL. The contribution of this paper has two folds. First, we 
have shown that the PPM model, which is used to analyze the population migration behavior in the real world, can also be applied to explain the gamer migration behavior in the virtual world but with modification. Second, this study provides a comprehensive model to explain the reasons why gamers stay in the current game or switch to a new Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


online game. These findings offer useful insight for online game providers to understand their customers better, and thereby develop more effective business strategies The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 explains the background of the Push-Pull-Mooring migration model. In Section 3 we present our hypotheses and explain the rationale behind them. In section 4, we discuss the methods used to analyze the data. The results of hypothesis testing and Structure Equation Modeling \(SEM through LISREL are detailed in Section 5. Finally, in Section 6, we summarize our findings and consider their theoretical and managerial implications 2. Theoretical Background  In this research, we consider the switching intentions of online gamers as a type of migratory behavior in virtual worlds. People migration is a longitudinal topic in demography, and peopleês movements to new destinations are considered as switching behavior of living locations h e  Push-Pull-Mooring Model \(PPM Model\, which is the guideline for migration study, considers the factors that push people to leave one place \(their original home\d the factors that pull them to migrate to a new location addition  th e m odel contains a number of variables that can either hold latent migrants in their place of origin or facilitate migration to the new destination [44 In th is sectio n   we introduce the concepts of the PPM model and explain how we apply it to the phenomenon of online game switching 2.1 Migration Demographists defined migration as çthe movement of a person \(a migrant\ween two places for a certain period of timeé [1 ccording to time period, migration can be divided into temporary and permanent migration. The temporary means people have leaved origin and work in other places during the decades, while retire or elder then return to origin. Permanent migrations are people who leave their place of origin forev s a res u lt, bus i n es s  trip and holidays would not be included in migration   Researchers also classified the attributes of migrants: Voluntarily migrants and involuntary migrants \(refugees\ [30  V o l unt a r i l y mi gr a n t s a r e  who can freely choice their destination and migration process. Alternatively, refugees have no choice and must to migrate due to natural disasters or wars, no matter he/she like to migration or not [11 Sim ilarl y   in the discipline of marketing, consumer switching behavior can be also divided into voluntarily and involuntary switching. Voluntarily switching occurs because of core service failure, staffs response to service failure, or pricing issues [35 I nvo lu nta r y switching arises because the customer moved or his/her provider closes 2.2 Push-Pull-Mooring Model of Migration The statement of people migration is influenced by push-pull effects that can retrace to 1885 by Rubensteinês publication 'Law of Migration' [41 T o  date, push-pull model has become the main theory for interpreting the migration of people [3 ards  migration as the consequence of interaction between Push effects of the place of origin and pull effects of the destination Push effects are the negative factors that impel people to leave their place of origin; for example, a lack of working opportunities, a decline in natural resources or the prices paid for them, and natural disasters. Pull effects are the positive factors of the destination that attract people to it; such as, better development and working opportunities, higher income, and comfortable cli   The push-pull model can be used to analyze most types of migration behavior; however, it does not account fully for the migration of individuals. For example, if certain push factors and pull factors operate in the place of origin and the destination respectively, why do not all households move and how can return migration be properly explained [44   In such situation, migration is not caused not only by Push-Pull effects but also by personal factors. It is probably the reason that Walmslry es tions t h e assumptions about the relationship between economic conditions and migration. He claims that migration is related more to reasons of a personal kind, such as a better life style A numbers of scholars have recognized that normative and psychosocial variables were important in migration decision. Lee trodu ced th e construct of çintervening obstaclesé and çpersonal factorsé into the discussion of push-pull forces Furthermore, Longin d en t i f i e d èm oori ng  a s  representing the relationship group factors that are most important in forming a decision to migrate or not to migrate. Mooring may be seen as both cultural and spatial factors through which a person or household gains access to psychological wellbeing Moon d t h e con c ept of m oori ng  i n t o  Push-Pull model as Push-Pull-Mooring Model \(PPM for explain population's migration. PPM model reminds researchers that the personal factors and cultural signals are important to movement Bans g u e d t h at cu s t o m ers s w i t ching  among service providers are alike to consumers migrant among service providers. They found PPM model provided a unifying framework for position the factors which found in service switching literatures, and advised the researchers to apply PPM Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


model for understanding consumer switching behavior. We believe, it is more appropriate to apply PPM Model in online game switching. That is because of people may be hard to recognize service providers as çdistinct worldsé due to all providers are within same living space. Alternatively, the design purposes of online game are to create virtual worlds then make players èrole-playingê and interactivity with others within the virtual worlds. Players engaged within an online game are like to be a resident in the virtual world. While players switching to a new game play as other roles, he/she can obviously feel stay in distinct environment and get whole new experience 3. Hypothesis This research aims at understanding players switching intention \(SI\igure 1 presents the research model. The factors impel players to leave away the online game \(Push effects\: low enjoyment EN\faction of the online game provider SA\nd perceived insufficient participant \(CP Factors attract players toward to the new online game alternative attractiveness \(ATS\ Factors to bind gamers leave away \(mooring effects\: switching costs SC\ocial relationship \(SR\d prior experience PE\ This scission will discuss why we choice these concepts and their position in PPM online game switching model Figure 1. The research model 3.1. Push Effects According to migration literature, people are likely to move due to negative factors of their origin s t ance, lack opportu n itie s of career development: lack of work, no chance to marry lack natural resources or unable to buy, and disasters may germinate the thought of migrating  Because there is lack of works for understand why players leave online games, we borrowed ideas form literature that why people join a game and several possible factors from online service research Players participate online gaming voluntarily to feel optimal experience and perceive enjoyment [15  h en pla y ers e n ter i n th e f l o w  s t ate, t h e y  become absorbed in a game and feel in cont   There exists an incremental mechanism in the flow experien e o p les  w i ll reen ter to a n acti v i t y  for experience flow again and again h is  mechanism is important because players expect to experience flow by re-enters the online gaming; more times they entry, the stronger sense of enjoyment they fell. Therefore, player will continuous to be the resident in the virtual world, she/he will not leave away the online game. Oppositely, players emerge switching to other games from perceive low enjoyment in current online games Except for enjoyment, satisfaction of online game provider is another vital factor to keep gamer stay Satisfaction is frequently used for weight and keeps customers either offline or online service contexts [17 36   T h o ugh c u sto m e r sa t i sfa c tio n a n d c u sto m e r  loyalty is not always positive, but dissatisfy customers will aggressively seek for alternativeness to switch [25; 35 lin e g a m e in d u str y i s k i n d s o f  the online services. They offer online entertainment technology for people use in leisure time  Players vary in game experience and computer skills therefore, 24 hours call services are needed to answer questions and solve problems such as inaccessibility to the server, account theft, and stolen game items. If the players perceive low satisfaction of online game provider, he/she may emerge the intention to change a game  Information products often have the characteristic of network externality. That is, the value of a technology to a user increases with the number of adopters [5 n onlin e g a me can be clas sified as a type of information products and thus it inherits the characteristic of network externality. The more players play the same online game and interact with each other, the greater playfulness of the game they sens Prev iou s s t u d i e s h a v e s h o w n t h at th e  number of participants in an online game positively influences the entertainment value perceived by the players T h at is th e m o re g a m e r s participate in an  online game, the much more playfulness they perceived. Conversely, when players feel there are insufficient participants in an online game, they may consider leaving. According to the above discussions we hypothesize that H1: The lower the perceived enjoyment satisfaction with the online game provider, and perceived insufficient participants in an online game  Mooring H2 H3 SI Pus h EN SA CP SC SR PE AT S  Pull H1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


the greater the likelihood players will switch to another online game 3.2. Pull Effects According to the migration theory, people are likely to move if destination offers a better quality of life than their original home, such as the better work opportunities, higher income, and good schools [4   Similarly, in service researches, customers are likely to switch when providers can offer a better service quality than current one, even though the price is higher [9; 17; 35  O n li ne ga mi ng is se e n a s a  technology to offer people online entrainment services t u d y reported th at pla y e r s sw itc h i ng to a new game when attractiveness is fresh for whom to perceiv ce w e hy pot h e s i zed t h at  H2: The higher the attractiveness of another online game, the greater the likelihood that customers will consider switching to it 3.3 Mooring Effects Because the complexity of migration decisions, it is not sufficient to consider push and pull factors merely independently. Intervening obstacles or mooring effects were suggested to be considered in migration Moo rin g  ef f ect s are des cribed a s  both cultural and spatial factors through which a personal gains access to psychological well-being Mooring factors are influenced by cultural signals that are perceived as being important, motivating the people to stay or migrate to a destination The economic condition is a vital factor within mooring effects. People are likely not to migrate when the cost is high. In marketing studies, switching costs are mostly to present as the costs to expense in switching. Switching costs refer to the costs of switching from one product to another competing product [49 T h e h i gh er the sw itc h i ng cos t s th e  more difficult it is to switch brands or products even though with low adoption costs [13; 21; 37; 38   While player switches the game, he/she will face lose of accumulation of current game. Such as, game experience level, game items can not apply in another game; hence, players are likely not to switch due to high switching costs The presence of family or friends at a location will motivate the person to stay put or migrate to a new location li n e g a m e i s a g a m e added to th e Internet system, which allows many players to interact in virtual space; furthermore, gamers can organize virtual teams that make players to gather together for achieve goals \(i.e., defeating monsters and finding treasures\d can offer a place for players to interact with each oth  T h eref ore  social interaction need is important factor for participate the online gaming. Once individual recognize that he/she belongs to specific team, he/she will likes to continue playing the game and it will not be easy to leave  Prior experience is important factor to migration too. Individual with migration experience is possible to migration again compare to a person who without experience of migration In cas e o f people h a v e  been moved away the place that he/she grew up, the experience makes he/she easier to migrate. Because of overcoming the first time migration situation and got success, migrants have learned skills for future migration, and are more likely to migration again 40   T h is is c o ns iste nt wit h  ma r k e t in g s t ud y f i nd i n g  that buyersê prior switching experience influences their subsequent behavior intentions ce  Players are more likely to switch when they have prior switching experience. The above statements lead to our last hypothesis H3: The likelihood that players will intend to switch online game is lower when their switching costs are higher, their social relationships are strong or they have not switch often in the past 4. Research Method 4.1. Measurement In the measurement design, all questionnaire items are adopted from existing literatures and the items are showed in appendix A with 8 constructs including 28 questionnaire. Items are slight ly modified to suit for the context of online game switching In the push effects, the scale items for enjoyment EN\were assessed with Ghani and Deshpandeês  enjoyment scale. Satisfaction of online service providers \(SA\was measured with five items from Oliver and Swanês cale C r itical participan t w a s  measured with three item scale proposed by Hsu and Lu T h e pu ll ef f ect w a s operation alzed as  alternative attractiveness \(ATS\hich was measured with Bans cale. T h e m ooring e f f ects  included switching costs, social relationship, and prior experience. Switching costs \(SC\ were assessed with Pingês cale. Social relation s h ip \(S R   w a s  measured with four items used by Hsu and Lu  Prior experience \(PE\as base on Bansal and Taylor  i t ch i n g in te n tio n SI a s m e a s u r ed b y  w o r k  of Oliver and Swan. Except two parts were used for collecting the gamer experience and human demographic, all items were measured on the 7-point Likert scales or 7-points differential semantic scales 4.2. Data Collection The questionnaire was first discussed with two professors for verify the context validity. After that, a pretest was conducted to test the measurement before Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


large survey. Pretest samples were faculties, staffs and undergraduate students in a private university of technology. They were all having experience of game-playing. The purpose was to access the length of the measurement and wording of the items. In total 95 samples were got and the pre-reliability test was constructed by SPSS 13. All constructsê Cronbach's alpha value are greater than 0.8, shown the instrument with high reliability initially [45   Empirical data were collected from a field survey Samples were self-selected by placing messages on two large game-related websites in Taiwan, including Bahamut, \(http://www.gamer.com.tw\ and Gamebase http://www.gmaebase.com.tw\sages were announced for seeking volunteer who has online game experience to be the respondents, especially in kind of MMORG. The message stated the purpose of this study, provided a hyperlink to the questionnaire As an incentive, cash coupon with value of US$2 dollars was offered to each respondent through mail 5. Results The survey yielded 635 responses. After removing those with unanswered items, we had 574 usable respondents. Approximately 76 percent of the respondents were male. The majority of respondents were 19 years old or less \(50%\d 43% were between 20 and 29 years old. Approximately 86 percent of the respondents were students whose expenditure on subscription fee was equal or less than US$10 dollars or less per month  5.1. Measurement model SPSS 13 were used for verity the reliability of the measurement. As shown in Table1, all scales were adequate given by Nunnallyês suggestions [45  Fo r critical participant \(CP\, Cronbach's alpha value was 0.642, showing medium reliability of items which use to measure this concept. For all the other concepts Cronbach's value was exceeding than 0.8. These results indicated high reliability of measurement Table 1. Scale reliabilities Concepts Items Scale Reliability Switching Intention \(SI 3 0.946 Enjoyment \(EN 4 0.909 Satisfaction \(SA 5 0.950 Critical Participant \(CP 3 0.634 Switching Costs \(SC 4 0.859 Social Relationship \(SR 4 0.929 Prior Experience \(PE 2 0.892 Attractiveness \(ATS 3 0.808 The confirmatory factor analysis \(CFA\was performed by using LISREL 8.54 with maximum-likelihood estimation \(ML\o test the construct validity of questionnaire for switching  To access the model, multiple fit indexes were reported. However, since chi-square may be inappropriate index to assess the fit of models with large sample sizes [43  f i v e ad d itio n a l f it in d i ces are also reported: chi-square/degree of freedom  2/df=2.17 2=911.56 df=420 g oodn es s o f f i t  index \(GFI=0.90 r m ed f i t in de x NF I 0.96\ , comparative fit index \(CFI, CFI=0.98   root mean square error of approximation RMSEA=0.042\[51 er all m odel f it i n dex es were better than recommendations then indicated the CFA model was consistent with the data. More, to access the discriminate validity by using average variance value \(AVE\e item \(CR1=0.3\g to critical participant was removed due to it makes AVE of critical participant less then 0.5. The correlation matrix to present construct validity was showed in Table 2 5.2. Hypothesis test The structural model was tested by LISREL 8.54 with maximum-likelihood estimation  two-step process was followed to assess the PPM model. First, a second-order factor model was analyzed, with enjoyment, satisfaction, and critical participant reflective of the second-order factor labeled push effects, and switching costs, social relationship, and prior experience reflective of a second-order factor labeled mooring effects. The pull effects construct was captured by the alternative attractiveness concept alone. Second, the factor scores of first-order variables, including EN, SA, CP SC, SR, PE, and ATS were used to assess the structural model up to intention. To assess the results of SEM analysis, constructs were all within acceptable range shown the good fitness between our model and sample, except chi-square/degree of freedom is little higher than suggestion value X2=1653.96, P=0.0; df=308, X2/df=5.37, NFI =0.93 CFI=0.94, GFI=0.92, RMSEA=0.082\igure2 shows the results of the research model and the standardized path coefficients of the constructs and concepts. The pull effects on switching intention was significant, hence supported hypothesis 2. Mooring effects has negative force to significantly influence switching intentions; thus H3 is supported. Besides all concepts which we proposed to interpret mooring effects were all representing the mooring force However, the push effects that make players leave a game was not significant; therefore, H1 is not supported Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Table 2. Correlation Matrix of constructs SI EN SA CR SC SR PE ATS SI 0.857   EN 0.101 0.725   SA 0.020 -0.249 0.792   CR 0.033 0.195 -0.109 0.845  SC -0.322 -0.104 -0.064 -0.191 0.614  SR -0.060 -0.266 -0.025 -0.142 0.315 0.725 PE 0.418 0.012 -0.084 0.036 -0.191 0.096 0.815 ATS 0.300 0.086 -0.095 -0.091 -0.032 -0.030 0.095 0.604  Diagonals represent the AVE value \(average variance extracted\hile the other matrix entries indicate the squared correlations Figure 2. Results of SEM analysis fixed t-value in parentheses, >1.96 is significant, path coefficients are outside path coefficient with negative value indicate a negative relationships between variables 6. Conclusion and Limitations The purpose of this study was to extend the PPM model to explain the online gamersê switching intention in the virtual worlds \(online games Specifically, çmooring effectsé have a stronger influence on the switching intentions of online game players than çpull effectsé. However, çpush effects do not have a significant influence on switching intentions Mooring efforts have the most influence on online gamersê defection. In switching literatures, mooring effects are frequently represented by switching costs 13; 17; 25 Ou r s t u d y pr opos es f actors lik e social relationship and prior experience also represent the mooring effects. These factors have not received much attention in the literature related to online service; however, in this study, we have shown that they are important aspects of mooring effects. Future online service research should investigate these variables further Because gamers are usually students without high income, they do not have a lot of money to spend on online games. Intuitively, switching cost should not be an important factor in the mooring effects However, to our surprise, the switching cost with a factor loading of 0.45 is the most important factor in the mooring effects. This indicates that, even though gamers do not spend great deal of money on online games, they still consider switching between games may generate high switching costs. This is because switching costs also include the value of property in the virtual world, such as game skill levels and accumulated powerful items, which would be lost by switching to another game It is lik el y th at m o st gamers are like teenagers tend to seek attention and recognition by playing game. For example, when the gamers reach a higher gaming level, they gain the respect of their fellow players. Hence, online game player are willing to invest great deal of efforts in a game in order to win the respect and acceptance of their fellow players. However, switching to a new game would means losing the respect and property accumulated in the current game, which may lead to feeling of regret Pull effects have the second strongest influence on online gamersê switching intentions. This study characterizes the pull effect as çalternative attractivenessé and measures it in the questionnaire in terms of the enjoyment, value, and satisfaction of a new online game. These measurements were taken from the literatures relevant to game-playing and service switching [8; 26; 33 T h e resu lt of this st u d y  suggest that online game providers need to attract players by using the following çpull-forcesé to draw players away from their current games: design an online game with playfulness and novelty; lower the subscription fee or even offer free online game; and offer toll-free hot line for solving the problems that arise in a game  Mooring SI Pus h EN SA CP SC SR PE AT S  Pull 0.8 0.31 2.4 0.24 2.34 0.11 2.46 0.45 0.24 2.34 1.0 0.09 2.56 0.05 1.07 0.81 10.32 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Unexpectedly, push effects do not significantly influence the switching intentions. That is, players will stay with the current online game, even when they perceive the çpush-forceé. The probable reason is that players do not want to lose the property accumulated in the current game and they may choose to reduce the frequency of login or spend less time to play the current game  Though this study provides several insights into online game switching decisions, it has several limitations. Our study used the convenience sampling approach to collect data; hence, the potential applications of the findings are limited. Due to budget limitations and time constraints, we could not collect more samples. In addition, it is also possible that some other factors may be added in construct of pull effect. Further research should focus on this construct for formulate much çpush forcesé in order to attract players to switch Reference Chinese 1 C he n, Y C a n d H u H P 2 00 5  T he  A c c u m u la tion of  Core Resources in High Velocity Environment: Four Cases in the Online Game Industry,é J ournal of E-Business, 7\(1 15-34 2 Fu, J H   2 00 4 O n l i ne g a m i ng Ha ppy book  Exploratory of Online Game Industry, Taipei: Yuan-Liu Publish 3 L o, S-K W a ng C-C, a nd Fa ng W  2005a  h e  Exploratory Research of On-line Game Consumer Purchasing Decision Process and Switching Factors Electronic Commerce Research, 3, 289-306 4 M IC \(2 0 05a Taiwan Online Entertainment Behavior Exploratory 2005 Market Intelligence Center, MIC http://mic.iii.org.tw/intelligence July 2005 5 M IC \(2 0 0 5 b  Taiwan Game Industry 2005-2006 Forecast Market Intelligence Center, MIC http://mic.iii.org.tw/intelligence Dec. 2005 6 M IC \(2 0 0 8  Taiwan Online Entertainment Behavior 2008 Forecast, Market Intelligence Center, MIC http://mic.iii.org.tw/intelligence Jan 2008  English  7 A g a r w a l, R. a n d K a ra ha nna  E 2 00 0 T i m e Flie s  When Youêre Having Fun: Cognitive Absorption and Beliefs about Information Technology Usage." MIS Quarterly 24\(4\65-694 8 B a n s a l, H  S  a n d T a y l or S F  1 99 9 T he Se rv ic e  Provider Switching Model \(SPSM\ Model of Consumer Switching Behavior in the Services Industry." Journal of Service Research 2\(2\200-218 9 B a n s a l, H  S., T a y l or S. F a n d J a m e s   Y  S. \(20 05   Migratingê to New Service Providers: Toward a Unifying Framework of Consumers' Switching Behaviors,é Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 33\(1\96-115 10 B e ntle r   P  M  1 9 90  C om pa ra tiv e Fit In de x e s in  Structural Models.é Psychological Bulletin 107, 238-246 1 Bo y l e P   and Hal f acree K 1 99 8   M i grat i o n a nd Gender in the Developed World, New York: Longman 12 B urnha m  T  A Fre ls J  K a n d  Ma ha ja n V  2 00 3  Consumer Switching Costs A Typology, Ant ecedents, and Consequences,é Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 31\(2\109-126 13 C he n P  Y  a nd H i tt, L  M   200 2  M e a s uring  Switching Costs and the Determinants of Customer Retention in Internet-Enabled Businesses: A study of the Online Brokerage Industry,é Information Systems Research 13\(3\, 255-274 14 C hoi D  a n d K i m  J  20 04  W hy P e op le C o nti nue  to Play Online Games: In Search of Critical Design Factors to Increase Customer Loyalty to Online Contents CyberPsychology & Behavior, 7\(1\, 11-24 15 C hou T J a nd T i ng C-C \(2003  T he Role of Flo w  experience in Cyber-Game Addiction,é CyberPsychology Behavior, 6\(6\, 663-675 16 C l a r k  E. D  a nd K n a pp, A  T  1 996  P e r s ona l a n d  Location-Specific Characteristics and Elderly Interstate Migration.é Growth and Change 27 \(3\327-352 17 C r o s b y  L   A  a nd S t e phe ns N    1 9 87   E f f ec ts of  Relationship Marketing on Satisfaction, Retention, and Prices in the Life Insurance Industry.é Journal of Marketing Research , 24\(4\, 404-411 18 C s i k s z e n t m iha l y i, M. \(1 99 5 l ow T he P s y c holog y  of Optimal Experience, New York: Haper Pereninal 19 D ic k  A  S., a n d Ba s u K 1 99 4  C us tom e r L o y a lt y   Toward an Integrated Conceptual Framework,é Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 22\(2\, 99-113 2 F l an agan  J C 19 78  A Res earch  A p p r o a ch t o  Improving Our Quality of Life,é American Psychologist Vol. 33, 138-147 21 Forne ll C 1 9 92 A N a tiona l Cus t om e r  Satisfaction Barometer: The Swedish Experience,é Journal of Marketing, 56\(1\, 6-21 22 G a n e s h, J  A r nold, M a nd Re y nolds K  20 00   Understanding the Customer Base of Service-Providers An Examination of the Differences between Switchers and Stayers.é Journal of Marketing 64 \(July\7 23 G h a n i, J  A  a nd D e s hpa nde S   P   1 9 94 T a s k  characteristics and the experience of optimal flow in human-computer interaction,é Journal of Psychology 128\(4\, 381-391 2 Ho f f man  D L an d No vak T  P    1 99 6  M ar ket i n g in Hypermedia Computer-Mediated Environments Conceptual Foundations,é Journal of Marketing, 60\(3 50-68 25 H ou, C  Y A v us a nd C h e r n. C  C    2 0 07   T he Ef f e c t  of Switching Costs for Corporate Antivirus Package Switching Decision,é in Proceedings of Pacific Asia Conference in Information System \(PACIS 2007 Auckland, New Zealand 26 H s u, C-L a nd L u H P 2 00 4 W h y D o P e o p le  P l a y  On-line Games? An Extended TAM with Social Influences and Flow Experience,é Information & Management, 41\(7 853-868 27 H s u, C L a nd L u  H P  2 00 7   C ons um e r B e ha v i or  in Online Game Communities: A Motivational Factor Perspective,é Computers in Human Behavior, 23\(3 1642-1659 28 Ig b a ria, M. an d Iiv ari, J. \(1 9 9 5  h e Ef f e cts o f  Self-Efficacy on Computer Usage,é Omega, 23\(6 587-605 29 In-stat \(2 00 7 O n line E n te rtainment in Asia/Pacific Rising From the East Accessed in April 2008 at http://www.instat.com/Abstract.asp?ID=212&SKU=IN070 3701ACM  30 J a c k s on, J  A  1986  r a tion, N e w Y o rk  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


Longman 31 J aw ors k i, B., K ohli A  K  a n d Sa ha y   A  2000   Market-driven versus Driving Markets,é Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 28\(1\45-54 32 J e rom e H  1 92 6 Mig ra tio n a n d B u s i ne s s Cy c l e s  New York: National Bureau of Economic Research Inc 33 J one s  A  M Mot he rs ba ug h, D   L a nd Be a tty S. E  2000\Switching Barriers and Repurchase Intentions in Service,é Journal of Retailing, 72, 259-274 34 J  re s k og K  G  a nd Sˆrb o m  D  199 3 I SR EL 8  Structural Equation Modelling With the SIMPLIS Command Language. Chicago: Scientific Software 35 K e a v e n ey S. M 1 99 5 C us tom e r Sw itc hing  Behavior in Service Industries: An Exploratory Study Journal of Marketing, 59\(2\71-82 36 K i m   G B  Sh in e t a l  2 00 6   A s t udy of f a c t ors  that affect user intentions toward email service switching Information & Management 43\(7\, 884-893  37 K l em pe r e r   P   1 9 87   M a r k e t W ith C o ns um e r  Switching Costs,é The Quarterly Journal of Economics 102\(2\, 375-394 38 Kle m p e r e r  P  1 99 5 C om pe tition W h e n  Consumers Have Switching Costs: An Overview With Application to Industrial Business, Macroeconomics, and International Trade,é Review of Economic Studies, 62\(2 515-539 39 K oh J   a n d K i m  Y  G   2 0 03   S e n s e of V i r t ua l  Community: A Conceptual Framework and Empirical Validation,é International Journal of Electronic Commerce 8\(2\, 75-93 4 Ku zn et s S  Th o m as DS P o pu l a t i o n Redi st ri bu t i on and Economic Growth in the United States: Population Data, 1870-1960 Philadelphia, Pa., University of Pennsylvania, Population Studies Center [producer  1 9 8 4   Publication Order Number ICPSR 7753 4 L ee E  S  19 66  A T h eo ry o f M i gratio n    Demography, 3, 47-57 42 L ong ino C. F J r  1 9 92  T he F o re s t a n d the T r e e s   Micro-Level Considerations in the Study of Geographic Mobility in Old Age,é in Elderly Migration and Population Redistribution, London: Belhaven, 23-34 43 M a r s h, H e rt W  19 94  C o n f i rm a t ory Fa c t or A n a l y s is Models of Factorial Invariance: A Multifaceted Approach Structural Equation Modeling 1\(1\, 5-34 4 M o on  B 19 95   P arad igm s in M i gration Research   Exploring 'Moorings' as a Schema,é Progress in Human Geography, 19\(4\, 504-524 45 N unna lly J  C 1 9 78  P s y c hom e t ric T h e o r y 2d e d   New York: McGraw-Hill 46 O Brie n, J  A  20 04 Ma na g e m e nt Inf or m a tion Systems, McGraw-Hill Publication, pp. 44-45 47 O liv e r L  a nd Sw a n E   19 89  C ons um e r  Perceptions of Interpersonal Equity and Satisfaction in Transactions: A Field Survey Approach." Journal of Marketing 53\(2\, 21-35 48 P i n g  Robe rt A J r 19 93 T he Ef fe c t s o f Sa tisf a c tion and Structural Constraints on Retailer Exiting, Voice, Loyalty Opportunism, and Neglect.é Journal of Retailing 69 \(3 320-352 4 P o rter   M  E 20 01   S trategy an d th e I n tern et   Harvard Business Review, 79\(3\, 62-78 5 S h ap ir o  C   V a rian  H  1 99 9   A S t rategic G u id e t o  the Network Economy, HBS Press, Cambridge, MA 51 S te ig e r J  19 90 S truc t u ra l M ode l Ev a l ua tio n a n d  Modification: An Interval Estimation Approach Multivariate Behavioral Research 25:173-180 52 S tim s on, R  J  a nd M i n n e r y  J  1 998  W hy P e opl e  Move to the 'Sun-belt': A Case Study of Long-distance Migration to the Gold Coast, Australia,é Urban Studies 35\(2\, 193-214 53 W a l m s l e y  D  J Epps W  R., a nd D u nc a n C. J   1998\Migration to the New South Wales North Coast 1986-1991:Lifestyle Motivated Counterurbanisation Geoforum, 29\(1\, 105-118 54 W illia m s R. B. a n d Cli ppi ng e r C. A   2 0 02   Aggression, Competition and Computer Games: Computer and Human Opponents,é Computers in Human Behavior 18\(5\, 495-506 55 Zauberman, G. \(2003\The Intertemporal Dynamics of Consumer Lock-in,é Journal of Consumer Research 30\(3\, 405-419 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Appendix A Survey Instrument Switching Intention \(SI Rate the possibility that you would switch from çcurrent gameé to a new game within 6 months \(please answer below UnlikelyÉLikely ImprobableÉProbable No chanceÉCertain Enjoyment \(EN Please describe your enjoyment feelings while online game-playing \(please answer below InterestingÉUninteresting FunÉNot fun ExcitingÉDull EnjoyableÉNot enjoyable Satisfaction \(SA Overall, how do you feel about the service provided to you by çmy online game provider DispleasedÉPleased DisgustedÉContented DissatisfiedÉSatisfied They do a poor jobÉThey do a good job UnhappyÉHappy Critical Participant \(CP CP1 Most people in my group play an online game frequently SDÉSA CP2 Most people in my co mmunity play an online game frequently SDÉSA CP3 Most people in my class/office play an online game frequently SDÉSA Attractiveness \(ATS ATS1.ATS1.All in all, competitors would be much more fair than çmy current online game provider SDÉSA ATS2.Overall, competitorsê policies would benefit me much more than çmy current online game providerês policies SDÉSA ATS3. I would much more satisfied with the service available from competitors than the service provide by my current online game provider SDÉSA Switching Costs \(SC SC1 On the whole, I would spend a lot of time and money to switch from çmy current online game SDÉSA SC2 Generally speaking, the costs in time, money, effort and grief to switch from çmy current online game would be high SDÉSA SC3 Overall, I would spend a lot and lose a lot if I switched from çmy current online game SDÉSA SC4 Considering everything, the costs to stop playing my current online gameé a nd start up with a new online game would be high SDÉSA Social Relationship \(SR SR1 I fit in well with the online game members SDÉSA SR2 I like the members of the online game SDÉSA SR3 In general online game members act as a cohesive unit SDÉSA Prior Experience \(PE PE1 In the past, I have often switched online games SDÉ SA PE2 I have a lot of experien ce in switching online games SDÉSA Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Clearly, the setting of goals and metrics is a challenging task for many IT organizations. The finding for the Goals and Metrics attribute matched the relatively low level of maturity for each of the processes in the ME Monitor and Evaluate domain  The other relatively high-level attribute was Responsibility, which was in the top third for 51% of the processes. The other relatively low attribute was Tools, which was in the bottom third for 56% of the processes  The Tools and Technology attribute essentially addresses the level to which technology is used to manage the organization s technology. It is interesting that the use of tools and technology is not more mature in the technology domain  7. Conclusion  Research on IT governance concentrates on decision-making rights and the form of IT management. An important, but understudied aspect of IT governance is the ability of IT organizations to meet their many and varied challenges. Arguably mature IT processes are a necessary precondition for successful governance over IT. Process maturity concepts are important in particular domains within IT, notably in application development through the application of CMM. There is, however, very little empirical data on the level of process maturity in other domains of the broader IT endeavor. To go some way to overcome this clear gap in the research literature, we undertake a large field study of IT organizations across several countries. Seeking to encompass the complete range of IT activities, we base our investigation on the various processes in COBIT  The results in this study show that \(1\e overall level of process maturity in our study is relatively modest; \(2\ere is considerable inter-process variability in maturity with some processes that a priori might be expected to have had relatively high maturity were relatively immature and \(3\here is similar inter-organizational variation in process maturity  This research is an early contribution to an ongoing analysis of the level of process maturity and the determinants thereof. There are many questions that future research must address. For example, what is the influence of particular governance frameworks on process maturity and IT governance? Then, going futher, does higher process maturity lead to successful outcomes in the dimensions of governance. For example, does higher maturity lead to greater agility? Lower cost? What is the return on investment in process maturity? Are there particular domains within the overall realm of IT that generate higher returns on investment  References  1 ITGI Board Briefing on IT Governance  IT Governance Institute, 2003, 2nd edn. 2003 2 Van Grembergen, W., and DeHaes, S Implementing information technology governance Models, practices, and cases IGI Pub., 2008. 2008 3 ITGI IT Governance using CobiT and ValIT IT Governance Institute, 2007, 2nd edn 2007 4 Brown, A.E., and Grant, G.G Framing the Frameworks: A Review Of IT Governance Research Communications of AIS, 2005, 2005 15\712 5 Weill, P., and Ross, J.W IT governance How top performers manage IT decision rights for superior results Harvard Business School Press 2004. 2004 6 Xue, Y., Liang, H., and Boulton, W.R Information Technology Governance in Information Technology Investment Decision Processes: The Impact of Investment Characteristics, External Environment, and Internal Context MIS Quarterly 2008, 32, \(1\, pp. 67-96 7 Raghupathi, W Corporate governance of IT: A framework for development Communications of the ACM, 2007, 50, \(8\pp. 94 - 99 8 De Haes, S., and Van Grembergen, W Analysing the Relationship Between IT Governance and Business/IT Alignment Maturity Proc. 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Kailua-Kona, HI2008 pp. Pages 9 Ahern, D.M., Clouse, A., and Turner, R CMMI distilled: A practical introduction to integrated process improvement Addison-Wesley 2004, 2nd edn. 2004 10 Kasse, T Practical insight into CMMI  Artech House, 2004. 2004 11 West, M Real process improvement using the CMMI Auerbach Publications, 2004. 2004 12 ITGI Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies \(CobiT\1 IT Governance Institute, 2007. 2007   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


sector is well aware to this issue and defines it through levels, first and second levels digital divide/s [3]. The first level of digital divide/s focuses on lack of infrastructure private and public and more generally it deals with ACCESS from a technological point of view. The secondlevel of digital divide/s refers mainly to the usage level From the users/citizen point of view it includes the lack of SKILLS or AWARENESS as to how to use information communications technologies effectively and efficiently From the government point of view it focuses on how to make content ACCESSIBLE \(e.g., content that would be accessible by people with disabilities challenge of accessibility from a LANGUAGE perspective that is not yet implemented. The pilot manifested that eGovernment is more focused on the second-level of digital divide/s, that is more on the content, than the traditional one E-Commerce marginalizes and neglects the concept of digital divide/s. It is of less importance to this sector since the drivers are transactions. For example localization of content will occur if a market exists and there is a demand from consumers. The concept itself implies a certain criterion of social responsibility, which contemporarily many companies like to brag about. This pilot demonstrates that words are nice but they are not applied necessarily in the interactions of companies and consumers. It emphasized differences in justifications to the existence of e-commerce vs. e-Government entities business and economic sustainability vs. service and executing policy. Digital divide/s is a ?nice to have concept to e-Commerce and is a top-priority challenge to e-Government Proposition #28: Addressing the challenges of the digital divide/s is more likely to be found in eGovernment than in e-Commerce Proposition #29: Addressing second-level digital divide/s takes more attention in EGIS projects than firstlevel digital divide/s 4.6 Discussion and Summary We set out to investigate, identify, and characterize the similarities and differences between e-Commerce and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 e-Government since we believed that the findings from such a study would benefit academic knowledge and eCommerce and e-Government practice alike. In the following we discuss and summarize our observations and insights Similarities between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #1 According to our findings both ECIS and EGIS benefit their respective organizations significantly more when the underlying workflows and processes are not only electronic re-embodiments of their paper-based antecedents but rather streamlined, simplified, or completely discarded and replaced by different workflows and processes, which take full advantage of the technology. This seems to be increasingly understood in both commerce and government. We also found completely new workflows in both sectors, which would not have been possible without ECIS and EGIS A great incentive for streamlining and redesigning workflows and processes we found in the increased degree of collaboration within and between the sectors which has become possible in an instantaneous fashion through ECIS and EGIS We further found that collaboration between partners within and across sectors works better when it unfolds on the basis of formal agreements. In government, it was noted that imposed collaboration works poorly as opposed to collaborative engagements based on freedom of choice Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on 


Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on ECIS/EGIS reduces cost and speeds up the process on both ends even if the private-sector partner provides systems, infrastructure, and maintenance Along with transactional collaboration and integration we found increasing collaboration within and across sectors also in the area of information sharing. If collaboration thrives, we saw even the partial alignment of strategic objectives as a result. Information quality played a critical role in this context. A positive feedback between perceived IQ, information sharing, and the strength of the relationship seemed to exist We found in both sectors that similar governance structures of organizations influenced how collaborative ECIS and EGIS were designed. Remarkably, in both sectors the perceived needs of citizens \(and customers respectively sytems. In e-Commerce, organizations were interested in providing a social environment, which was conducive to a positive experience as a customer These findings suggest that ECIS/EGIS-related phenomena have important characteristics in common which go beyond the mere technical resemblance of systems and methods. Process redesign practices might be a worthwhile subject of further study. Likewise, practices and principles of organizational and technical collaboration appear to provide valuable experiences to be shared Differences between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #2 However, we also found formidable differences in practices, principles, and drivers between e-Commerce and e-Government Transaction processing was found more sophisticated and of far higher volume in commerce than in government. On the other hand, information processing and management, including the archiving of electronic records we found much more developed in the public sector than with private firms. The drivers of innovation were stronger in e-Commerce than in a e-Government however, the overall sophistication of EGIS did not appear to lag behind ECIS by orders of magnitude. Yet private sector firms were found to make far more elaborate use of historical data and data in processing in order to optimize desired organizational outcomes than government agencies. Lower information quality was also found to lead to more immediate and economically more negative effects in e-Commerce than in e-Government Still, governments struggled more than commercial organizations to maintain acceptable levels of information quality leading to far greater challenges, for example, in content management Interestingly, leadership in government appeared to be more supportive of \(in particular, collaborative projects than their commercial counterparts. It also appeared that collaborative structures in the public sector were markedly stronger than those in the private sector Although many EGIS initiatives seemingly greatly cared about citizens? involvement and participation, we found that private firms had an edge in creating a customer experience.? Almost in contradiction to this finding, we noticed that citizens were far more influential in the design of EGIS than customers were in the design of ECIS. At this point, we refrain from speculative explanations for the lack of a sufficiently large base of data Overall, what we found different between eCommerce and e-Government suggests that the two phenomena follow different trajectories despite many similarities and technical commonalities. One obvious explanation lies in the sector-specific differences, which produce different drivers also in this area. It will be 


produce different drivers also in this area. It will be interesting to analyze to what extent Enterprise  Resource Planning \(ERP introduced in government, may help align the trajectories between e-Commerce and e-Government to a higher degree than we found in this study Surprise Findings The process of involving diverse participants and the rich data that evolved from the focus groups illuminated few important phenomena, which need to be discussed One strident finding is the absence of discussion or reference to the issue of ethics both in the e-Government and e-Commerce focus groups. A whole array of clusters Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 emerging from the discussions \(e.g., information management and digital divide not raise any challenges or concerns related to normative decisions of right and wrong. The prevalence of information technologies and usage involves many questions of ethics. Managers gathering and analyzing personal and sensitive information on customers government officials deciding to implement information systems according to political constraints, and accuracy and level of information quality provided to customers and citizens are few examples of the inter-linkage between ethics and e-Government and e-Commerce Striping decisions and strategy from a system of values and norms may be more easy and beneficial in the short horizon, but in the long run may cause inherent difficulties in managing e-government or e-commerce initiatives Another problematic phenomenon we found is the disregard of issues of digital divide/s by the private sector The public sector makes many efforts to understand and address needs of diverse groups in society. EGIS hels the public sector to reach growing portions of the population more efficiently and effectively, through for example providing information in different languages or making information more accessible to populations with disabilities. The private sector, on the other hand, may address indirectly issues of digital divide/s, including issues of access and usage, but only if economic profitability is attached to these needs. Digital divide/s was not raised in the private sector as a concept, because it is not addressed directly, but as a by-product of other initiatives Limitations and future research In our samples of participants from the two sectors we found after the focus groups were conducted that eGovernment experts on average were from higher levels in the organizational hierarchy than e-Commerce practitioners who were more technically oriented and versed. Our results, hence, may be skewed that they represent more strategic perspectives in e-Government and more operational/tactical perspectives in eCommerce We also recognize that what we present here is the result of an exploratory study based on a limited number of participants. Our study attempts to lay theoretical foundations for more quantitatively oriented research on the subject, which will lead us to more generalizable results. We plan to use the twenty-nine propositions developed here in a successive study aimed at closing that gap 5. Acknowledgement We are indebted to our two graduate students Tim Carlson from the Master of Science in Information Management \(MSIM doctoral program who helped us prepare for and conduct this research 6. References 


6. References  1] R. N. Anthony, Planning and Control Systems; a Framework for Analysis. Boston: Division of Research Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University, 1965 2] S. Arthur and J. Nazroo, "Designing Fieldwork Strategies and Materials," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 109-137 3] K. Barzilai-Nahon, "Gaps and Bits: Conceptualizing Measurements for Digital Divide/S," The Information Society, vol. 22, pp. 10, 2006 4] K. Barzilai-Nahon and H. J. Scholl, "Similarities and Differences of e-Commerce and e-Government: Insights from a Pilot Study," in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Ed. Waikoloa/Big Island, HI: IEEE, 2007, pp. 92c\(1-10 5] B. Bozeman, " Exploring the Limits of Public and Private Sectors: Sector Boundaries as Maginot Line.," Public Administration Review, vol. 48, pp. 672-674, 1988 6] Y.-P. Chang and J. Yan, "Positioning in a New Dynamic ECommerce Business Model," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing \(WICOM 2007 IEEE, 2007, pp. 3592 - 3595 7] E. Constantinides and S. J. Fountain, "Web 2.0: Conceptual Foundations and Marketing Issues," Journal of Direct, Data and Digital Marketing Practice, vol. 9, pp. 231-244, 2008 8] J. W. Creswell, Educational Research: Planning Conducting, and Evaluating Quantitative and Qualitative Research, 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Merrill, 2005 9] S. S. Dawes, "Interagency Information Sharing: Expected Benefits, Manageable Risks," Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, vol. 15, pp. 377-394, 1996 10] G. DeSanctis and M. S. Poole, "Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory," Organization Science, vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 11] H. Finch and J. Lewis, "Focus Groups," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 170198 12] L. S. Flak and S. Nordheim, "Stakeholders, Contradictions and Salience: An Empirical Study of a Norwegian G2g Effort," in Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, \(HICSS39 eGovernment Track 75tig 13] G. E. Gorman, P. Clayton, M. L. Rice-Lively, and L Gorman, Qualitative Research for the Information Professional: A Practical Handbook. London: Library Association Publishing, 1997 14] T. L. Greenbaum, The Handbook for Focus Group Research, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 15] T. L. Greenbaum, Moderating Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Group Facilitation. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 16] A. Groenlund, "State of the Art in e-Gov Research Surveying Conference Publications," International Journal of Electronic Government Research, vol. 1, pp. 1-25, 2005 17] A. T.-k. Ho, "Reinventing Local Governments and the EGovernment Initiative," Public Administration Review, vol 62, pp. 434-444, 2002 18] M. Janssen, G. Kuk, and R. W. Wagenaar, "A Survey of Web-Based Business Models for E-Government in the Netherlands," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 25 pp. 202, 2008 


pp. 202, 2008 19] C. Kaylor, R. Deshazo, and D. Van Eck, "Gauging EGovernment: A Report on Implementing Services among American Cities," Government Information Quarterly, vol 18, pp. 293-307, 2002 20] C. H. Kaylor, "The Next Wave of e-Government: The Challenges of Data Architecture," Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, vol. 31 pp. 18-22, 2005 21] R. Klischewski and H. J. Scholl, "Information Quality as the Capstone of E-Government Integration, Interoperation and Information Sharing," Electronic Government, an International Journal, vol. 5, pp. 203-285, 2008 22] R. A. Krueger and M. A. Casey, Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Applied Research, 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 23] E. Madriz, "Focus Groups in Feminist Research," in Handbook of Qualitative Research, N. K. Denzin and Y. S Lincoln, Eds., 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000, pp. 835-850 24] A. Mathie and J. C. Greene, "Stakeholder Participation in Evaluation: How Important Is Diversity?" Evaluation and Program Planning, vol. 20, pp. 279-285, 1997 25] L. Mohan and W. K. Holstein, "Eis: It Can Work in the Public Sector," MIS Quarterly, vol. 14, pp. 434-448, 1990 26] E. W. T. Ngai and F. K. T. Wat, "A Literature Review and Classificatiuon of Electronic Commerce Research Information &amp; Management, vol. 39, pp. 415-429, 2002 27] W. J. Orlikowski and D. Robey, "Information Technology and the Structuring of Organizations," Information Systems Research, vol. 2, pp. 143-169, 1991 28] R. Park, "Measuring Factors That Influence the Success of E-Government Initiatives," in 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 IEEE, 2008, pp. 218 - 218 29] M. Q. Patton, Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods, 3 ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications 2002 30] H. Rainey, R. Backoff, and C. Levine, "Comparing Public and Private Organizations," Public Administration Review vol. 36, pp. 233-244, 1976 31] J. Ritchie, J. Lewis, and E. Gillian, "Designing and Selecting Samples," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 77-108 32] K. A. Schildt, S. Beaumaster, and S. Bailey, "Organization Antecedents of Successful It Management," presented at Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS'06 Government Track, Kauai, 2006 33] B. C. Stahl, "The Paradigm of E-Commerce in EGovernment and E-Democracy," in Electronic Government Strategies and Implementation, W. Huang, K. Siau, and K K. Wei, Eds. Hershey PA: Idea Group Pub., 2005, pp. 1-19 34] A. L. Strauss and J. M. Corbin, Basics of Qualitative Research: Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1998 35] Y. Wang, J. Li, P. Liu, and F. Yang, "Electronic Commerce Research Review: Classification and Analysis," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications Networking and Mobile Computing, \(WiCom 2007 Shanghai, PR China: IEEE, 2007, pp. 3505 - 3508 36] M. Ward and S. Mitchell, "A Comparison of the Strategic Priorities of Public and Private Sector Information Resource Executives," Government Information Quarterly vol. 21, pp. 284-304, 2004 37] M. Zajicek, "Web 2.0: Hype or Happiness?" presented at Proceedings of the 2007 international cross-disciplinary conference on Web accessibility \(W4A 2007 


  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207ñ216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intíl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intíl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





