  Security in Health Information Systems An Exploratory Comparison of U.S. and Swiss Hospitals   Martin Luethi Picis, Inc Rosemont, IL, USA martin_luethi@picis.com   Gerhard F. Knolmayer Institute of Information Systems University of Bern, Switzerland gerhard.knolmayer@iwi.unibe.ch   Abstract  Various reports of information security breaches 1 uni nt ended i n f o r m a t i on di s c l o s u r e s of conf i  
dential patient information, and computer attacks have raised the awareness about security issues of health information systems \(HIS\his paper explores the interrelation between the use of information systems and information system security in the hospital sector of the Health Industry. It analyzes organizational, regulatory, and technological factors as well as difficulties inherent to health care organizations such as patient safety concerns and the use of these systems by clinicians who rely on timely and correct clinical information about their patients Technical and organizational security capabilities are discussed with reference to case studies of 
two academic medical centers and two hospital groups in the United States and Switzerland. It is shown how the practicability of information security controls is limited by the heterogeneous and decentralized nature of HIS and the way in which clinicians use them   1. Introduction  The use of computers in hospitals started by supporting administrative functions and was initially often driven by their financial departments. Patient data was collected primarily for billing and administrative 
purpos e to dif f e ren t in f o r m a tion al re qu irements of medical specialties, clinical systems emerged independently in several medical departments. Although monolithic hospital information systems \(IS\t, they only offer part of the functionality needed. Special applications can fill this gap but have to be interfaced with the main hospital information system and other applications. This typically results in a heterogeneous and fragmented application environment On an industry level, missing value propositions 
misaligned incentives, and delayed standards adoption may have been reasons for hospitals to embrace IT slowly [4, 5  Fur t he r  a uni q u e o r ga ni z a t i o na l  structure, the diversity and number of interacting professionals, and semi-standardized data elements and processes have delayed the adoption  Modified reimbursement patterns, more outcomeoriented data collection requirements, and changes in the health care market have shifted data processing needs toward integrating more patient-care functions and clinical processes. This implies the collection of 
more sensitive patient- and disease-related information. Market demands have led to horizontal and vertical integrations and blurred organizational boundaries of hospitals and health care organizations. Information has to be shared on an intra-organizational level but also beyond the boundaries of the organizations Sharing of sensitive health information has been a concern for regulators for years. Different approaches have been taken: the U.S. relies on a sectoral regulation, which specifically protects health information 
through legislations such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 \(HIPAA  t Eu ropean cou n t ries created a com p reh e nsive legislative regulation for privacy, protecting all personal information independent of industry and type. This can also be seen under the aspect of IT Governance, which has an external perspective of conformance to compliance initiatives but also aims for more performan Technical approaches to ensure information security are well known. Security properties such as con 
fidentiality, integrity, and availability can be enforced by appropriate technical controls. However, the practicability and affordability of these measures in particular in hospital environments with heterogeneous systems, time-sensitive data needs, roaming personnel, single workstations for multiple users with different roles, and potential user resistance remains Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 


  questionable. These requirements may hamper the adoption of HIS considerably The paper is based on exploratory research in two academic medical centers and two hospital groups in the U.S. and in Switzerland. The study explores the relation of IS adoption and information security capability, its practicability, and its effectiveness in the analyzed hospital environments. A qualitative theorybuilding approach was chosen since the boundaries between the phenomenon of security and the organizational context of the HIS are not eviden   2. Health Information Systems and Security  HIS frequently consist of one central main hospital information system, which covers basic Enterprise Resource Planning \(ERP\-like functionality, such as patient registration, billing, documentation, inventory, and other functions required at the corporate level. Additionally, they may include or be connected with ancillary systems such as laboratory, pharmacy and x-ray components. Needs of medical specialties in the departments are only partly covered. Therefore a plethora of highly specialized applications and systems are in place, which may or may not be controlled by a central information technology \(IT partment. These applications are interfaced using health care specific messaging protocols such as Health Level 7 \(HL7\d Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine \(DICOM\. Messages and interfaces are often customized and sent in a point-topoint or multilateral interconnection, mostly unauthenticated. Generally this approach leads to a high number of data pools throughout the organization that may contain sensitive health information The systems are used by administrative personnel in traditional office environments as well as by clinicians, which includes physicians and nurses. Workstations and mobile devices are used by multiple professionals who may not always be computer savvy Also several applications may have to be used simultaneously to view and collect medical information The workflow within these environments may require personnel to read and modify sensitive and potentially vital information quickly. On the one hand, generic and unrefined authentication and authorization procedures may severely limit productivity and efficiency of clinicians. On the other hand, lax security controls defeat any other security measures. Common threats and counter measures can be categorized as force majeure, organizational shortcomings, human error, technical failure, and deliberate acts T h e y  can result in the breach of patient confidentiality An exploratory approach is pursued to identify the relation between clinical and administrative HIS adoption and organizational and technical IS capabilities. The underlying framework includes market regulative, institutional, and technological factors Figure 1\ample, market factors include the size of the population served, the number of alternative care provision organizations in the area, and the reimbursement system. Regulative factors comprise the structure, specificity, and scope of the applicable laws. Institutional factors include the type of organization, ownership, and the source of funding. Technological factors refer to the availability of real or defacto standards, adaptability and the ability to adjust systems to local health-care requirements through parameterization and customization. The unit of analysis is the health information system which consists of an administrative and a clinical part. We focus on IS security and also distinguish between an organizational and a technical part. Security cannot be addressed through technical measures alone but has an important organizational component. The HIS and its security measures are influenced by law and other regulations    Figure 1. Framework of factors influencing security in health information systems [11    2.1. Regulatory View  Whereas in most countries privacy of patient information is regulated by law, information security guidelines are often not explicitly stated. However, in a modern IT environment, security and privacy are inextricably linked. The protection of privacy can merely be effective using adequate security measures Regulations influence the decisions of health organizations to deploy HIS. Strict regulations may defer the implementation of certain types of IS Regulators have chosen different approaches to ensure privacy. In the U.S., HIPAA is a regulative framework that includes among  other things a privacy standard as well as a security standard. Covered Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  organizations are health care providers, health plans health care clearinghouses, as well as their business associates. The regulation is targeted at a small set of specific organizations and is called a sectoral regulation. The data set specifically covered is health data which is either identifiable or a limited data set HIPAA provides mandatory security standards that are further detailed in implementation specifications Table 1   Table 1. U.S. Regulation - HIPAA security standards and specifications  Standard Implementation specification Security management process Risk analysis Risk management Sanction policy  Information system activity review Assigned security responsibility No further specifications Workforce security Authorization and/or supervision Workforce clearance procedure Termination procedure Information access management  Isolating health care clearinghouse function Access authorization  Access establishment and modification Security awareness training Security reminders  Protection from malicious software Log-in monitoring Password management Security incident procedures Response and reporting Contingency plan Data backup plan  Disaster recovery plan  Emergency mode operation plan  Testing and revision procedure  Applications and data criticality analysis Evaluation No further specifications Business associates contracts and other arrangements  Written contract or other arrangement Facility access control Contingency operations  Facility security plan  Access control and validation procedures Maintenance records Workstation use No further specifications Workstation security No further specifications Device and media control Disposal Media re-use Accountability  Data backup and storage Access control Unique user identification Emergency access procedure Automatic logoff Encryption and decryption Audit controls No further specifications Integrity  Mechanisms to authenticate protected health information Person or entity authentication No further specifications Transmission security Integrity controls Encryption  In Switzerland health information is covered by an omnibus regulation targeted at personal data in general. For public or private organizations a different section of the regulation applies. Many hospitals in Switzerland are owned or partly financed by the government; a stricter regulation applies for them Data is protected in a similar manner as in the U.S., it is distinguished between sensitive data and profiles and non-sensitive data. Table 2 provides an overview  Table 2. Swiss Regulation - Technical and organizational measures Technical and organizational measure Implementation suggestion Physical access control Facility access control  Surveillance of facilities Constructive measures Personal media control  Limiting media access to authorized personnel  Controlled disposal of media  Controlled printing of media Transport control Secure transport equipment  Safe delivery service Four eyes principle Checksums Encryption Disclosure control Protocols Documentation of organizational structures Network Applications Storage control  Quality assurance of applications  Controlled import of external applications  Transparent modifications to systems File encryption User control Callback equipment Access limitation  Authentication and access control Encryption  Deletion of administrative and development accounts  Logging of system authorizations  Limitation of authorization attempts per account Access control Access lists  Identification and authorization controls  Logging and auditing of modifications and violations Input control Timestamp logging User lists Data entry Paper records Logging No further specifications  The security regulation in the U.S. is narrower and more specific. It contains 18 standards and 36 implementation specifications. The broader Swiss regulation contains 9 measures. Both regulations have some ambiguities, gaps, and are vague in terms of technical details. For example, logging and audit controls need further interpretation and more detailed implementation guidelines. These measures can be implemented on the operating system level, application level, database level, or even procedurally. The granularity of logged events varies considerably and may have performance implications. Further, in Swiss regulations risk management and contingency Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


  planning activities are omitted. Both regulators state that it is not possible to provide more technical detail since implementation are diverse and technology changes are rapid and therefore rely on more detailed implementation guidelines  2.2. Organizational View  Hospital organizations and groups may have a tripartite power structure consisting of the board of directors, the management, and the physicians. In some organizations the latter group has strong influence on software sourcing decisions and may oppose system implementations h e r s t a k e h ol ders of HIS are funding institutions such as government and health insurance companies, other health care organizations, the hospital organization, clinical personnel which may or may not be part of the hospital, vendors, consultants, and patients \(Figure 2 Patients have become more knowledgeable, share an interest in the data collected, and expect a higher involvement in the treatment process. Patient rights organizations support their claims for mandatory rights such as information access and confidentiality Availability and the variety of vendors and consultants influence the deployment of IT systems significantly since today most hospitals use packaged applications rather than home-grown systems           Figure 2. Stakeholders of a health information systems [16    Information security may pose a barrier to clinical workflow and usability. Typical hospital users access about 7 different applications, having different means of authentication. Switching between users can take between 60-90 seconds and logging into an application may require 5-30 seconds. In order to be more effective, passwords are often written down or simple to guess passwords are chosen, clinicians may share accounts, fail to logoff, and expose patien  2.3. Technical View  Information security properties include confidentiality, integrity, and availability. To retain a system in a secure state, all properties must be satisfied. Confidentiality ensures that computer-based information is not disclosed without proper authorization and is in particular important in regard to sensitive health information. To be ensured, authentication and authorization functions are essential. They become even more complex for Electronic Health Records \(EHR 18, 19 u th e n ticat ion i n cl udes pas s w o rds tok e n s   and biometrics on the system and the application level. Single sign-on solutions may be deployed to realize these functions over a variety of applications For hospitals, role-based authorization has become an important concept to manage security policies  Table 3 provides a high-level sample policy for a clinical information system that needs to be enforced by security controls to provide an acceptable level of protection. In the BMA policy, technical means are summarized in principle 9, the trusted computing base \(TCB\The TCB assures that all other principles can be implemented in a reliable manner and can be part of the operating system, the programming language used, or the application Integrity assures that data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner. This applies for data that is processed, stored, and transported. Information as basis for clinical decision making has to be accurate otherwise its value is diminished. Additionally to security functions mentioned above, non-repudiation is used to guarantee system integrity. Cryptography and Public Key Infrastructure are essential security mechanisms. For example, principle 5 states that clinical information cannot be deleted until an appropriate time period has expired. Created documents are often cryptographically hashed to prove that the content conforms to the original. Audit logs may help to detect integrity breaches retrospectively, as required by principle 6 Availability includes time as a necessary component. Ensuring this property guarantees that system components and applications are available when needed and within the required amount of time. Failover systems and redundancy are mechanisms to help ensure continuity for the system user in case of unexpected events. All other security functions also support availability. However, too restrictive security measures may affect availability negatively. For example, a clinician may not be able to access vital patient information due to strict access controls. For ambulatory health care organizations requirements and security controls may differ [20   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  Table 3. British Medical Association security policy principles [21   BMA security policy principles for clinical information systems 1. Access control Each identifiable clinical record shall be marked with an access control list naming the people or groups of people who may read it and append data to it. The system shall prevent anyone not on the access control list from accessing the record in any way 2. Record opening A clinician may open a record with herself and the patient on the access control list. Where a patient has been referred, she may open a record with herself, the patient and the referring clinician\(s\ on the access control list 3. Control One of the clinicians on the access control list must be marked as being responsible. Only she may alter the access control list, and she may only add other health care professionals to it 4. Consent and notification The responsible clinician must notify the patient of the names on his record's access control list when it is opened, of all subsequent additions, and whenever responsibility is transferred. His consent must also be obtained except in emergency or in the case of statutory exemptions 5. Persistence No-one shall have the ability to delete clinical information until the appropriate time period has expired 6. Attribution All accesses to clinical records shall be marked on the record with the subject's name, as well as the date and time. An audit trail must also be kept of all deletions 7. Information flow Information derived from record A may be appended to record B if and only if B's access control list is contained in A's 8. Aggregation control There shall be effective measures to prevent the aggregation of personal health information In particular, patients must receive special notification if any person whom it is proposed to add to their access control list already has access to personal health information on a large number of people 9. Trusted computing base Computer systems that handle personal health information shall have a subsystem that enforces the above principles in an effective way Its effectiveness shall be subject to evaluation by independent experts  3. Case Studies  The U.S. and Switzerland belong to the countries with the highest cost of health care per capita, which suggests a comparison. However, it is considered difficult to investigate the topic since security is a sensitive matter and organizations may be unwilling to reveal information. Further, the question is multifaceted and single individuals may not know all answers or respond inaccurately. Therefore an explorative approach was chosen over a quantitative survey which allowed building a relationship of trust In this section we compare 2 U.S. and 2 Swiss hospitals with respect to IS security \(for more details cf For each cou n t r y on e academ ic m e dical  center \(US 1 CH 1 well as one small multi-hospital group \(US 2 CH 2 was analyzed to ease comparisons In total, 6 in-depth interviews were carried out with MIS directors, CIOs, and security managers. Over 500 pages of additional documentation such as security policies and concepts were analyzed  Organizational and technical security capabilities were evaluated on the basis of ISO 17799 security categories 22  Table 4 provides an overview of the cases analyzed. The HIS organization section lists details of the IT structure and size. The HIS is divided into administrative and clinical components. Generally these categories include dozens of more specific applications and systems. The available components at the organizations were cross-compared to each other and their importance for the covered business function was estimated, falling between low and high. The data was based on obtained documentation and qualitative data collected during the interviews  Table 4. Overview of hospitals \(as of 2005 Institution US 1 US 2 CH 1 CH 2  Employees 2,964 4,253 4,981 926 Beds 454 538 960 401 Type Academic Community Academic Community Health IS Organization IT responsibility CIO CIO CIO MIS director IT organization centralized centralized centr. control de-centralized IT structure 4 groups 5 groups CIO, dep. IT 1 group IT staff 70 FTE 85 FTE 30/70 FTE 11 FTE Users 6,100 5,500 4,250 Unknown Clients unknown 2,500 3,000 610 Servers 150 150 150 70 Applications 30 200 650 180 IT budget 3.5 4.0 3-5 2.5 Data centers 2 1 6 2 Sourcing strategy in-sourcing in-sourcing outsourcing outsourcing HIS only Administrative IS components  Patient management system     Billing systems     Financial systems     Electronic data interchange     Clinical IS components Medical record systems     Departmental record systems     Picture archiving system     Ancillary systems     Importance Low  Medium  High    3.1. U.S. Hospitals  US 1 is an academic facility which depends more on funding through research and state than US 2 It benefits from other organizations within a network of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


  hospitals that provide system-wide support through security policies and organization-wide IT auditing and training resources. As a state-funded organization, it is subject to elevated security standards US 2 is privately funded and achieved to obtain a dominating position in its local market. In both cases the IT department is centralized and provides services for the entire organization and no significant IT tasks are outsourced. Clinical departmental systems are overseen by clinical informatics and medical informatics directors, respectively. Applications are heterogeneous and interlinked with the main hospital IS US 1 has integration problems with its legacy system US 2 operates two different IS, as result of a merger For both hospitals, technical IS security projects were initiated before the advent of the HIPAA security regulation in 1996. For US 2 the main cause appeared to be its increased reliance on remote networked services as a direct result from the merger when IT services were centralized. For US 1 the requirements issued by the system and its close relationship to the medical school required increased IS security emphasis. Security regulations have additionally streamlined the organizational IS security capabilities at both facilities. Furthermore, US 2 reported increased attention of vendors to IS security requirements. Both organizations employ dedicated security staff and spend a significant amount of their IT budget for security. They also implemented authentication and authorization controls for all PCs at the system level. Additionally controls and resources are added to improve auditing capabilities on the application and system level using logging  3.2. Swiss Hospitals  CH 1 is an academic medical center providing center-point care and specialized medical services offering a wide array of care services, resulting in a high number of specialized departmental applications. Second, the allocation of funding is different CH 1 is less dependent on direct public funds, which may be a reason for higher IT expenditures. Both facilities are strongly influenced by political decisions and outsource significant parts of their IT tasks. CH 1  pursues a full-outsourcing strategy, keeping a controlling and steering group in-house including clinical IT department specialists. CH 2 outsources the operation of its ERP system to an external service provider. The backbone system is in either case an ERP system which is interlinked to more specialized applications. Management control is centralized at CH 1  while CH 2 manages the basic infrastructure but specialty applications are purchased, implemented, and operated by the departments themselves or by service providers Early technical IS security projects initiated at CH 1 included infrastructure to ensure its network perimeter security, presumably set off by increased network and Internet use. CH 2 implemented perimeter security relatively recently. At both facilities, these security projects were preceded by measures to increase availability. At CH 2 the focus of IS security is still on improving availability and continuity for internally operated infrastructure. CH 2 cannot recover its systems within a predictable timeframe. Other basic security infrastructure is relatively current at both facilities and depends on available funding Several organizational differences exist. While CH 1 started initial organizational IS security projects CH 2 lacks structured organizational controls for the internally operated systems. Decentralization and heterogeneity hinder an IT systems inventory at CH 1  Regulations interpreted by cantonal authorities which issue specific requirements derived from highlevel cantonal regulation, increasingly influence acquisition and operations at CH 2 especially for confidentiality-related controls of patient and personal information  4. Analysis and Comparison  4.1. Funding  For IT capital investments and contracts, a significant difference exists. Publicly-run Swiss acutecare facilities are subject to a Government Procurement Agreement \(GPA\mpliant process, whereas privately-run U.S. acute-care facilities structure their procurement process without external governance  4.2. Infrastructure  IT infrastructure is similar in both countries. Academic medical centers US 1 and CH 1 have less standardized and broader varieties of networked systems deployed, resulting in higher maintenance costs. The community hospitals standardized on Windows and Intel-based systems. Open-source operating systems are not used or applied only for niche applications U.S. hospitals run established hospital IS, integrating a variety of clinical and specialty modules, which are particularly designed for the health care environment and are adaptable for specific settings. Conversely CH 1 operates an ERP application based on a major business ERP system, with added patient management functions. CH 2 uses a health care specific appliProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  cation from an international vendor, adjusted to the Swiss health care environment  In U.S. hospitals, deployment and use of distributed client-server infrastructure is frequently performed using centralized presentation servers instead of direct deployment of client software to PCs, while the Swiss facilities widely use the more costly clientserver infrastructure. This makes a difference in areas in which multiple client-server applications are run from the same PC. Routing access to one or several centralized servers instead of the legacy applications directly also increases the potential for capturing security-related event data as well as controlling access to specific applications. For example, automatic timeout functions, authorization, audit trails, and emergency access features can be implemented on this additional layer instead of the heterogeneous applications that may not support this functionality  4.3. Sourcing  The analyzed U.S. hospitals self-operate their entire IT infrastructure, while Swiss hospital outsource significant parts of IT tasks. This observation may indicate that the IT function is strategically more important for the surveyed U.S. organizations than for the Swiss hospitals. Other reasons may include a higher level of specificity or uncertainty  4.4. Organizational Structure  Figure 3 illustrates possible positions of an IT department within the organizational hierarchy. The U.S. facilities fit option \(2\ which IT is organized as a main division. This organizational form is frequent in organizations in which information has a high relevance and the business is service-centric Disadvantages are cited as the difficult coordination of IT with other departments, which are led by clinical and medical informatics directors. CH 2 pursues strategy \(1\bordinating MIS to the services department, which may be explained by its small size and because IT was originally particularly used in the financial department. CH 1 controls IT through a matrix organization as illustrated in \(4\vantage lies in the close control of IT within the departments The intricate problem of double competencies is exacerbated by the existence of a service provider \(outsourcing  4.5. IS Security Capabilities  Table 5 illustrates the estimated capabilities of the investigated organizations. The data is based on written   documentation   and   other  qualitative  data   Figure 3. Positions of IT departments in org-charts [2   collected during the interviews. Primary differences were found for security requirements, audit considerations, equipment security, and accountability. Security requirements include established processes during system acquisition and maintenance such as detailed security specifications and strict access policies for vendors.  Researched U.S. facilities have an agreed and planned audit schedule whereas this was lacking in Swiss hospitals. Equipment security was weaker in Swiss facilities where systems containing patient information are often not located in secured data centers. The goal of accountability is to make actions of a user traceable. Procedures, logging, and instituted analysis of audit trails capturing user actions are more established in U.S. facilities Organizational IS security responsibilities and structures are well defined in the U.S. hospitals Training and awareness programs for employees are part of training processes and are institutionalized Contracts with third-party service providers include security requirements and risks are  assessed and mitigated. The entire organizational process  is formally documented in auditable policies and procedures At the investigated Swiss hospitals, organizational IS security structures and processes are less evolved IS security responsibility at CH 1 is assumed by an appointed official, whereas responsibilities at CH 2 are handled in a less structured manner. Training specific to IS security is not part of any hiring or employee training process. Contracts with third-parties include security-related topics but contract language is not standardized and therefore not all vendors may be required to comply Technical IS security has become a part of the system life-cycle at U.S. hospitals. Emphasis is shifting from authentication-related controls to increased monitoring of system and application audit trails Availability controls are still improved, in particular for complete failures and regional disasters. At Swiss institutions technical IS security is further progressed than organizational IS security. Although IS security Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


  is as well part of the system life-cycle in particular for the external outsourcing and hosting organizations, internal use of procedures appears to be less evident than at U.S. hospitals. Authentication still poses problems; there are no indications of audit trail reviews on the application level. More advanced authentication methods, such as biometrics, are not in wide use at either facility. Single sign-on products and solutions for clinical products are established and more heavily used at the U.S. hospitals  Table 5. IS security capabilities  Organizational IS security capability  US 1   US 2 CH 1 CH 2  Security policy Information security policy     Organization of information security Internal organization     External parties     Asset management Responsibility for assets     Information classification     Human resources security Prior to employment     During employment     Termination or change of employment     Physical and environmental security Secure areas     Equipment security     Compliance Compliance with legal requirements     Compliance with security policies and standards technical compliance     Information systems audit considerations     Information security incident management Reporting information security events and weaknesses     Management of information security events and improvements     Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance Security requirements of information systems     Security in development and support processes      Technical IS security capability     Domain layer Confidentiality property     Accountability property     Availability property     Logical layer   Authentication function     Authorization function     Auditing function     Continuity function     Physical layer  Authentication function     Auditing function     Continuity function     Network security     Protection against malicious and mobile code      Low  Medium  High   While technical IS security capabilities tend to increase simultaneously to the expansion of IT services and networking operations, organizational IS security capabilities were less developed than its technical counterparts at all surveyed organizations. In the two Swiss hospitals the gap between organizational and technical IS security was larger than in the surveyed U.S. hospitals. On the one hand, organizational IS security may be a logical but intrinsic consequence of increasing overall IS security that can only be achieved using organizational measures as opposed to technical controls alone. Further, it can be argued that organizational IS security measures require a certain organizational size and IT diffusion, achieving a state in which the risk of IT and corporate risk merge progressively. On the other hand, organizational IS security may be a result of external influence such as specific regulations or pressure from third-party organizations. Case studies reveal evidence for both argumentations but are not conclusive Figure 4 illustrates the IS security capabilities found at the investigated hospitals. The purpose of each security measure was categorized satisfying one or more security properties, which were aggregated as security focus. Each measure was also categorized as being directed toward one or more architectural layers. This approach resulted in 9 quadrants. The corner quadrants are dominated by the use of the following technologies and security mechanisms   System Availability: Backup, storage, patch management, and antivirus management  Information Availability: Data recovery, backup and storage  System Accountability: Intrusion Detection Systems \(IDS\nd system monitoring  Information Accountability: Consolidation, audit trail monitoring, digital signature, and Public Key Infrastructure \(PKI   IS security focus  Figure 4. State of IS security capabilities Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  Confidentiality measures directed toward the system itself may include authentication, authorization and directories. On the information side, single signon and identify management are common techniques Activities of the analyzed U.S. hospitals can be located in the upper quadrants increasing their focus on accountability including monitoring and auditing Early approaches checked on system layer monitoring activities; today application and domain layer objects are increasingly monitored and checked for compliance. While Swiss facilities attempt to improve accomplishments of the confidentiality property on the system layer, some unstructured monitoring attempts have been initialized. The upper right quadrants additionally require increased organizational IS security to be successful Administrative and clinical HIS adoption is further progressed at the two U.S. hospitals than at the Swiss ones. This seems to be influenced by market and organizational factors h ile th eir tech n i cal IS security capability is only slightly more advanced organizational IS security capabilities are significantly higher. Test plans and procedures are incorporated into operations at U.S. hospitals. Relative spending and budget for IT and IS security in relation to revenue are comparable between hospitals, except CH 2 which spends significantly less than the other facilities  4.6. Security in Heterogeneous IS  Most HIS today consist of a multitude of heterogeneous and fragmented components, accentuating the impracticability of completely monolithic systems. As a result, applications differ widely not only in business functionality but also in technical design and architecture, the rigor of applied security engineering techniques, and the support of security-related mechanisms and functions. Many vendors and service providers do not facilitate security interoperability due to a lack of standards. For example, authentication credentials are extractable from directory services with most contemporary applications; legacy systems do not provide such support. Generic authorization standards do not optimally model the workflow of multi-level, multi-user environments. Auditing trail data for applications and information is often not available and no interoperability protocol exists Many applications are interlinked using health care specific messaging protocols, disseminating sensitive information unauthenticated to a variety of distributed, possibly unauthorized applications that may be located beyond the security perimeter. Dependence of information flows and system components are fragmentarily identified To retain the combined system manageability of information, application, and system components, it is essential to obtain an aggregated representation for each information entity and its dependence on application and underlying computing and infrastructure components. Frequently, information entities are stored within multiple application components, which rely on their part on a variety of physical computing and storage devices. Due to regulations of health and personal information, it is essential to include application and domain layer elements in the representation and therefore go beyond the inventory lists of system and networking infrastructure, which can be easily obtained by commercial tools In addition to a heterogeneous application system environment, the components are used in different manners and settings. For example, clinical settings require authenticated access-levels dependent on the business function of the user, session lengths dependent on access patterns, and access to multiple applications for short intervals by a variety of personnel Often client terminals are shared by many professionals for practical reasons, but information access and modification needs to be accountable to each individual. The predicament of accessing vital health information lies in its dichotomy of obtaining timely access versus confidentiality and integrity concerns only allowing permitted and authenticated care providers to read and modify potentially life-threatening information. On the one hand, generic and unrefined authentication and authorization procedures may severely limit productivity and efficiency of clinicians On the other hand, lax security controls defeat the described requirements. Security controls and policies need to be specifically crafted and specified for each asset, resulting in the most effective protection of the information entity. The component owner carries the responsibility for the asset and makes decisions according to the organization s security specifications and budget  5. Conclusion  In this paper we discuss security aspects of Health Information Systems. In particular, four case studies on two U.S. and two Swiss hospitals are summarized and the results of the case studies compared with respect to different issues The empirical research showed that IS security in hospitals lacks some controls, in particular organizational measures. Size and IT diffusion as well as specific regulations influence organizational IS security Usage patterns of clinicians and heterogeneous application systems exacerbate security efforts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  U.S. organizations seem to have more controls in place than their Swiss counterparts. Technical security controls have become part of their system lifecycle. However, they still lack more advanced security and authentication controls  References  1 Ide ntity T h e f t Re sourc e Ce nte r  200 7 Da ta  Breach Stats," itrc, San Diego, 2008 http://idtheftmostwanted.org/ITRC%20Breach 20Stats%20Report%202007.pdf 2 P r ic e W a t e r hous e C o ope rs  2 00 8 Inf o rm a tion Se curity Breaches Survey", Technical Report PWC, London, 2008 http://www.pwc.co.uk/pdf BERR_ISBS_2008\(sml 3 M.F. C o llen  A History of Medical Informatics in the United States, 1950 to 1990 American Medical Informatics Association, Indianapolis 1995 4 B. Middle t on W  E. H a m m ond, P  F  Bre nna n   and G.F. Cooper, "Accelerating U.S. EHR Adoption: How to Get There From Here. Recommendations Based on the 2004 ACMI Retreat Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association 12 \(1\2005, pp. 13-19  T  U Dai m  R T  T a r m an  an d N Baso g l u   E x ploring Barriers to Innovation Diffusion in Health Care Service Organizations: An Issue for Effective Integration of Service Architecture and Information Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE Los Alamitos, 2008 6 C.S. G a rrard  H u m an Co m p u t er In teractio n s   Can Computers Improve the Way Doctors Work Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift 130 \(42\, 2000, pp. 1557-1563 7 U  S. D e pa rtm e nt of He a lth H u m a n Se rv ice s   Health Insurance Reform: Security Standards HHS, Washington, 2003 http://www.cms.hhs.gov/SecurityStandard Downloads/securityfinalrule.pdf 8 G  F. K nolm a y e r a nd G  L oos li I T  G o v e rna n c e   in Handbuch Kompetenzmanagement R. Zaugg Ed., Haupt, Bern, 2006, pp. 449-457 9 Yin   Case Study Research: Design and Methods 3rd ed., Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, 2003 10  Bunde s a m t f  r Sic h e r he it in de r Inf o rm a tions technik, "IT-Grundschutz-Kataloge," BSI, Kln 2005 http://www.bsi.bund.de/gshb/deutsch/index.htm 11 L  thi Information System Security in Health Information Systems - Exploratory Research in US and Swiss Acute-Care Hospitals Eul Verlag Lohmar, 2008   12  N a tiona l Ins tit ute of Sta nda rd a nd T e c hnolog y   An Introductory Resource Guide for Implementing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA\curity Rule National Institute of Standard and Technology, Gaithersburg, 2008 13  Eidg e ns s i s c he r D a te ns c hutz b e a u f t rag t e r ED S B Leitfaden zu den technischen und organisatorischen Massnahmen des Datenschutzes http://www.edoeb.admin.ch/dokumentation/0044 5/00472/00935/index.html?lang=de 14  N  M. L o re nz i a nd R  T  Rile y   Managing Technological Change: Organizational Aspects of Health Informatics 2nd ed., Springer, New York 2004 1 A  Bh attach erje e an d N Hi k m et  P h y sician s' R e sistance toward Healthcare Information Technologies: A Dual-Factor Model Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2007 16  R. Sp an jers, W  Hasselbring R. P e t e rso n and M  Smits, "Exploring ICT Enabled Networking in Hospital Organisations Proceedings of the 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2001 1 T h e A d vi so r y Bo ard Co m p an y   Toward Integrated Identity and Access Management The Advisory Board Company, Washington, 2006 18  B  B l obe l A uthoris a t i on a nd A c c e s s C ontrol f o r Electronic Health Record Systems International Journal of Medical Informatics 73 \(3\, 2004, pp 251-257 1 J E  M  l l er an d H  V o segaard  E xp erien ces w ith  Electronic Health Records IT Professional 10 2 2008, pp. 19-23 20  S. K a hn a n d V She s ha dr i M e d ic a l R e c o r d P r ivacy and Security in a Digital Environment IT Professional 10 \(2 2008, pp. 46-52 21 R   A nde r s on Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems Wiley New York, 2001 22 ISO ISO/IEC 17799: Information Technology Security Techniques - Code of Practice for Information Security Management 2nd ed., ISO, Geneva, 2005 23  P. Me rte n s a nd G  K nolm a y e r Organisation der Informationsverarbeitung 3rd ed., Gabler, Wiesbaden, 1998 24  B.B. W a ng T  T  H. W a n  D.E Bu rk e, G  J. Bazzoli, and B.Y.J. Lin, "Factors Influencing Health Information System Adoption in American Hospitals Health Care Management Review 30 \(1 2005, pp. 44-51  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments pre></body></html 


common concern was compliance with the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA information privacy. Organizations were unsure whether DP products would be HIPAA compliant and even if the products themselves were secure whether their onboard information could be kept secure when the pens are small and easily lost  3.4.3. Implications for DP. Although there was substantial interest in DP technology among professional services and white collar organizations the ethnographic findings suggest that delivering appropriate value from DP technology would be difficult. The first barrier would be providing a platform that either conforms to or changes current behaviors around pen and paper: free availability of pens and unpatterned paper in the workplace behaviors of writing on environmental paper, and the need to keep up with a personal pen with one?s data The second barrier would be to meet expectations around text; much of the value was seen as being in retention and searching of textual information, but this would be made difficult by the frequent inclusion of acronyms, abbreviations symbols, and foreign languages. Many organizations saw value in centralized repositories that would manage DP information across many employees; this would require an IT infrastructure that was not available \(e.g., to manage the DP pattern space might be difficult and expensive to develop and maintain. It also poses questions about privacy, since employees might not wish the archive to retain personal information captured alongside work notes Finally, because we noted real or perceived barriers that were highly specific to various industries it appeared that DP solutions would be most likely to succeed if they were tailored to very specific settings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 and use cases. This does not argue against DP usage and its value, but it suggests that delivering value to organizations may require substantially more design and development effort than a single general solution or platform would provide  4. Discussion  Our findings show that the interaction model of DP technology diverges substantially from common pen and paper usage. This divergence leads to unclear utility of DP for consumer note-taking purposes, and in a field trial, resulted in high abandonment rate of a consumer DP product. Among the most significant limitations were the low value seen in review of facsimile notes on a PC, the requirement with DP to use a special pen paired with patterned paper, and the low perceived value of capturing only notes taken on blank paper as opposed to handouts and other materials. In the enterprise space, the environmental issues were even more prominent due to the common infrastructure of freely available, communal pens and paper and the lack of IT infrastructure for DP document retention The note-taking research reported here suggests that writing behavior comprises many important areas besides capture, retention, and review of specific data. For instance, a single blank piece of paper or a one-word reminder may adequately serve as a reminder to do something that one intends, even though there may be little or no content as such Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending 


Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending a lecture, it may be socially desirable to take notes even if they are later simply disposed. Taking notes may also serve purposes of memory consolidation even when the content is never reviewed [8][9  4.1 DP and Writing Acts  Linguistic acts in social context have been described using a model of performative behavior commonly known as ?speech acts? theory [15 Chapman [2] extended that model to encompass writing, suggesting that many aspects of ?writing acts are unique and separate from spoken language.  In the extended model, writing acts may be described with a multidimensional taxonomy encompassing a writer?s context, aspects of the process, type of content, and linguistic features of the content Table 3 summarizes the dimensions of writing acts \(from [2 exemplify each dimension. For instance, ?separability denotes the extent to which items in a document are logically independent of one another; in a contract nothing is separable because the document is a single piece, while on a to-do list, many or all items may be independent of one another [2 DP technology may benefit from attention to the dimensions that are exemplified by writing acts embedded in social contexts. DP systems may be able to perform some kinds of writing acts quite well, but in other cases, DP may be inconvenient, unnecessary or inappropriate. Models such as the writing acts framework can be used both to understand user behavior broadly and systematically to explore the applicability of DP products across the general space of writing behavior A key problem for DP in note taking applications is that note taking can involve nearly every possible dimension of writing acts. Notes may be separable or not; they may serve as functional content or as contextual reminders; they may present just the facts? or be more interpretive; they may be transient or might be intended to be archival documents; and so forth. In short, notes are able to present a vast array of writing styles that pose substantially different value propositions and technological implications for DP products Delivering a general DP solution for note taking may therefore be expected to be difficult  Table 3: Dimensions of Writing Acts [2  Dimension Exemplars Separability a contract vs. a to-do list Function a typed inventory list vs calligraphy Emotionality a love letter vs. a packing slip Spatiality a transcript of speech vs. a diagram depicting concept relationships Associativity notes from class vs. doodling Linearity chronological notes vs. notes placed in a spatial ordering scheme Originality an essay vs. feedback on a manuscript Prescriptivity a signature vs. general notes Finality a document that will be archival vs. one that is a draft Structure a grocery list vs. concepts from a brainstorm Personality a letter to someone vs. a 


Personality a letter to someone vs. a journalistic essay Formality a business letter vs. a greeting card to a close friend  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 For product development purposes, the writing acts framework can be used to ensure coverage of use cases by generating possible scenarios combining various attributes of written documents. These potential combinations may then be explored evaluated, and prioritized for research attention development effort, or testing  4.2 Possible Directions for DP Technology  4.2.1. Note taking. What would make DP technology more popular for note taking? Our research suggests that this is a complex question because there are numerous behavioral barriers. The largest single problem for DP may be that it is a closed system comprising a special pen and patterned paper and does not function with the wide array of writing utensils and paper products that people use especially for environmentally available pens, paper and documents. If this problem could be solved or mitigated through an expanded DP technology platform, DP would avoid the large behavioral block posed by the current need for users to change their existing pen and paper habits DP effectively focuses on notes as data neglecting many aspects of the embedded social nature and process function of notes. If DP notes were easily integrated into a wider range of behavioral processes, adoption should increase. For example, if notes could be automatically handled for content such as phone numbers, appointment times reminders, temporary content, and the like, then the DP platform would come closer to matching current pen and paper usage. However, in many cases, there is a separate and larger issue: computer technology today also is not integrated into such processes. To take a simple example, consider a written grocery list Even if the problem could be solved to recognize extract, and transfer the list to a PC, it would be of little use because, for most people, the PC itself is not integrated into the grocery shopping process. Much information of this kind is transient; there is no need to manage or retain it once the paper has been used An example of potentially closer workflow integration is shown in the recently released Livescribe Pulse Smartpen [11], which couples the Anoto DP platform with audio recording such that note takers can review the audio of a meeting or lecture at the exact point that a note was written. We believe that these kinds of additions to base DP functionality are likely to appeal to specific niches of users, but as more use cases like these are enabled over time, DP may successively attain value for larger numbers of users In our field trials and organizational visits, one of the most common customer expectations was that DP notes should be converted from handwriting to text; respondents commonly noted that PC data is of little use unless it is transcribed to text. To meet customer demands, a DP product will need to address this expectation: the DP must either deliver text recognition with very high accuracy, which is a difficult problem, or it should manage the expectation in some other way that preserves customer perception of value from PC integration 


of value from PC integration The high cost of DP products \(approximately US 100 for a pen, plus the need for specially patterned paper demonstrable additional benefit. Transferring notes from paper to a PC today merely involves typing Unless the need for automation is great and the DP function is nearly perfect, users may simply prefer to type or to carry paper rather than to change behavior to use expensive and less flexible technology  4.2.2. Structured input. As noted in the Introduction above, another use case for DP technology is structured input of information. In particular, DP technology may be useful for form-based input into database and workflow systems, where information is initially recorded on paper forms and then automatically transferred from the pen to a database application. Although the present research report is concerned primarily with note taking applications, in the course of our enterprise research we discussed potential applications for forms-based DP usage We noted possible use cases that fell into five general areas: \(1 easier input of information by customers, such as clients filling out deposit or withdrawal slips at a bank; \(2 information from paper to database without needing to rekey or type the information, such as factory inspection and quality assurance logs, traffic tickets shipping manifests, and so forth; \(3 environments that were not suitable for handheld computing devices, such as construction sites and some kinds of manufacturing facilities; \(4 in which paper-based records are desirable for either employee compliance or customer comfort, such as medical settings; and \(5 based records are necessary, e.g., for legal reasons but a DP product could support faster turnaround and error correction. An example of such application involved financial forms that undergo offsite optical character recognition; a DP system might allow immediate recognition and error correction We plan to report this line of research fully in the future. For now, we note that each of those areas has various benefits and potential limitations with regard to DP technology. Forms-based use cases are more precisely defined and structured than note taking, in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 terms of environment, workflow, and content; the information context, form design, and potential for systems integration with rapid feedback may mitigate issues with handwriting recognition; and enterprise customers may be less price sensitive than consumers Thus, structured input appears to be a more promising near-future application of DP technology than note taking  4.3 Research Discussion  As we noted above, the present research was primarily behavioral and qualitative. Thus, despite the strength and consistency of our results across multiple samples, contexts, and locations, we present no specific metrics or tested hypotheses on user behavior with DP products. Our findings could be used to inform directional hypotheses for future depth or quantitative research. For instance, one might formulate and test hypotheses about cultural differences, interest levels in DP between various groups such as professional and non-professional 


office workers, market research metrics such as price sensitivity, and the like It is important to underscore the value of ethnographic fieldwork in the present research. It would be possible to conduct design research that explores how to make DP technology better, e.g., in terms of usability and function, without investigating exactly what people would do with such products and why. It was only when we investigated behavior in depth that we discovered the divergence of DP products? limited current value for note taking, as opposed to the high value that one might presume in the absence of depth research  5. Conclusion  In our research, initial trials of digital pens in a controlled setting \(Research Series 2 above suggested potentially good fit between digital pen functionality and consumer note taking needs However, when we explored real world behavior in note taking \(Research Series 1, 3, and 4 above found many potential barriers to adoption of digital pens for note taking. In particular, traditional pen and paper offer advantages in terms of cost, widespread and ad hoc availability, flexibility to work with multiple sources seamlessly, behavioral workflow integration, and manageability of content The value of using digital pens will increase if manufacturers are able to expand their platform technology progressively to enable broader coverage of behavioral scenarios and habits, focusing on the broad range of writing behaviors rather than just needs for facsimile replication on a computer Alternatively, digital pen technology may be more easily applied to tasks involving structured input rather than unstructured note taking We suggest that DP development efforts should use existing linguistic frameworks \(e.g., [2 the space of writing acts of interest. This should allow DP products to target behavioral needs in a more focused manner, leading to higher customer adoption  6. Acknowledgements  We thank many people who participated in this research: first and foremost, the numerous research participants, firms, and organizations who so generously shared their time and insights, but who must remain confidential; and many colleagues and research partners at Microsoft who collaborated on the technology investigation and research efforts especially Jeff Staiman, Vince Ball, Brian Williams Yoshiyuki Moriya, Stephen Cooper, Dave Shen Setsuko Arimatsu, Benjamin Babcock, Dennis Meinhardt, John Chiloyan, Glen Larsen, Mehrdad Basseri, Lori Birtley, Ken Hinckley, and Jian Wang  7. References  1] Anoto Group. Digital pen and paper. Web page http://www.anoto.com/?id=158, last retrieved May 28 2008  2] Chapman, C. N. Writing acts: taxonomy and technological implications. Paper presented at North American Computing and Philosophy \(CAP Corvallis, OR, August 2005  3] Despont-Gros, C., B?uf, C., Geissbuhler, A., and Lovis C. \(2005 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





