html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">A Privacy  Control Theory for Online Environments   Maria Moloney Trinity College Dublin Maria.Moloney@cs.tcd.ie Frank Bannister Trinity College Dublin fbnnistr@tcd.ie   Abstract Extant literature in Information Systems often reports a significant level of unease among the Internet community with regard to threats to online privacy but fails to identify a comprehensive set of specific online privacy concerns. Moreover, out of the concerns that have been identified by a number of surveys, it is unclear whether any have adequate theoretical foundations. This paper uses the existing privacy literature and in particular the work of two prominent privacy theorists, Westin and Altman, to devise an online privacy model which outlines the components of the online privacy concept and their interdependencies A theory for online privacy is then derived from this model   1. Introduction  In the last twelve months, there have been a number of high profile breaches of privacy reported in the media. One such breach occurred in late August 2008 when the British government began an investigation into how a computer containing highly sensitive bank information of over a million people was sold via online auction site eBay [1 In 2005 the American nonprofit consumer education and advocacy project, Privacy Rights Clearinghouse started keeping a record of all breaches of sensitive data. To date, over 236 million records containing personal information have been involved in security breaches [2]. Given the frequency and magnitude of these breaches, it is little wonder that concern is growing among the public for the safety of their personal information in an age where, if not correctly managed, technology allows for an individual?s personal information to reach the public domain quite easily In this paper, it is argued that an interdisciplinary approach is required to resolve the ethical questions surrounding the protection of an individual?s private space. Consequently, the paper draws on the disciplines of law, social studies and information systems to examine specifically the concept of privacy in online environments. The paper is organised as follows.  The next section examines some theories and definitions of privacy from within these disciplines.   Section three presents a model of online privacy and section four outlines a theory of online privacy and a possible application.  This is followed by a short discussion of future work and some final remarks and conclusions  2. Review of Relevant Literature  According to Westin [3], whenever a privacy claim is recognised in law or social convention, people speak of ?privacy rights?. Privacy has been declared a fundamental right of every human in many enduring bodies of law, the principle ones being Article 12 of 


bodies of law, the principle ones being Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights [4], article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights [5 and articles 7 and 8 of The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union [6 This paper uses privacy definitions from two domains that have contributed greatly towards the formulation of the privacy concept to which our modern society adheres. These domains are the ethical and legal domains A challenge, and an opportunity, in this research is that there is no universally agreed definition of what constitutes privacy.  This may be because attitudes to privacy are in part culturally determined [7 However, it is also a complex concept. To give a flavour of the complexity of the problem, consider the following approaches to the subject.  The theorist Charles Fried [8] believes that privacy is not simply an absence of information about a person in the minds of others, rather it is the control that a person has over information about themselves. This view is somewhat incomplete in that privacy can be interpreted as the control that a person has over information about themselves that they wish to keep from others. In reaction to Fried?s ?control theory? of privacy Moor 9] proposes a ?restricted access? view of privacy Rather than regarding privacy as an all or nothing Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE proposition, Moor regards it as a complex of situations in which information is authorized to flow to specific people, at specific times. He argues that in a highly computerized culture, it is simply not possible to control all personal information that resides on computer systems around the world. Therefore, the best way to protect privacy is to make sure that the right people have access to relevant information at the right time. Moor calls this view of privacy, the restricted access view, which has the added advantage of Fried?s control centred theory in that it gives individuals as much control over personal data as realistically possible. For this reason he labels his theory the control/restricted access" theory of privacy [9 An advocate of Moor?s control/restricted access theory is Herman Taviani. Taviani [10] also points out that modern privacy theorists tend to analyse the notion of privacy in terms of controlling the flow of personal information and have coined the phrase ?informational privacy? to express this new concept. The term informational privacy, is often used when referring to an individual?s online privacy \(although it should be noted that, even though protecting an individual?s personal information once submitted online is a key area for concern, submitting personal information is not an individual?s sole reason for spending time online Both social and non-social activities make up for a large portion of an individual?s time spent online [11 The variety of views can be further illustrated by looking at the work of arguably the two key figures in the privacy domain of the last thirty years, namely Alan Westin and Irwin Altman. Both put forth their own theories of privacy in the 1970?s and have since enjoyed considerable recognition from their peers [10 12-20].  Westin [21] defines privacy as the claim of individuals, groups or institutions to determine for themselves when, how, and to what extent information about them is communicated to others He delineates four states of privacy  Solitude is the state of being free from the observation of others  Intimacy relates to the seclusion experienced by 


 Intimacy relates to the seclusion experienced by individuals when they are a member of a small group. This type of seclusion promotes the development of close relationships  Anonymity is concerned with freedom from identification and from surveillance in public places  Reserve is based on limiting disclosure to others and requires others to recognise and respect that desire He also outlines four functions or reasons for privacy  Personal autonomy is the desire to avoid being manipulated, dominated, or exposed by others  Emotional release is the release of tensions under social restrictions like role demands, emotional states or minor deviances  Self-evaluation deals with extracting meaning from personal experiences and exerting individuality on events  Limited communication sets interpersonal boundaries and protected communication allows for sharing personal information with trusted others [3 In contrast, Altman [22] defined privacy simply as the selective control of access to the self He sees ?selective control? as intrinsic to privacy because people try to control their openness or distance to others by being open and available or closed and unavailable at different times and for different reasons [22]. Altman argues that, privacy is a dynamic process whereby people vary in the degree to which they make themselves accessible to others. He describes the crucial idea of his framework as being that privacy is a central concept that provides a bridge between personal space, territory and other realms of social behaviour. He describes privacy as ?a dialectic and dynamic interpersonal boundary regulation process by which a person or group regulates interaction with others? [22 According to Altman, the word ?dialectic? in this definition refers to the openness or distance of self to others. For example, whether the individual seeks or avoids social interaction. The meaning of ?dynamic indicates that the desired privacy level, which varies due to individual and cultural differences continuously moves along a continuum of openness and distance in response to changes in circumstance over time This research uses a combination of Westin and Altman?s privacy theories as the basis for developing an online privacy theory The next section outlines how the online privacy theory was formulated by firstly developing an online privacy model which explains the various concepts involved in online privacy and their interdependencies This allowed for the whole schema of online privacy to be represented more clearly and thus more easily interpreted for a theory  3. Formulation of the Theory  The first step in arriving at the online privacy theory was to represent the findings in the form of a model, where both the theoretical foundations of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 privacy could be explored by examining in depth Westin and Altman?s theories of privacy and the modern concept of online privacy could be analysed through examination of several recent academic studies 


through examination of several recent academic studies The first step in devising the model was to derive individual sets of potential privacy concerns from both privacy theories. This was done through close examination of both theories and inferring privacy concerns from them The second step was to explore the concept of privacy in a modern setting and to examine whether the theoretical foundations from the privacy theories developed over thirty years ago, still apply today. The modern setting was the ?online environment? and the concerns individuals had about their privacy were in this case examined by looking at evidence from the empirical literature [7, 23-33].  These first two steps are described in more detail in [34 From the information gathered through examination of both privacy theories and the empirical literature, a remarkable difference between theory and practice regarding privacy concerns emerges. While the concept of trust in relation to privacy features heavily among the online privacy concerns, Westin and Altman fail to mention it directly. Westin [21] touches upon it when he describes the need for privacy to achieve personal autonomy. He describes individuals as having different layers of protection around themselves; only a few close individuals are allowed to enter into the innermost layers closest to the true self. Similarly, Altman and Taylor [22] use an onion metaphor in their social penetration theory to explain the same phenomenon An individual?s personality has multiple layers, like an onion. As people get to know one another they penetrate each layer to come closer to the core of the individual. However, neither theorist incorporates the concept of trust into their privacy theories The concern about relinquishing control over personal space is evident in both theory and practice Such concern indicates that individuals need to feel in control of their privacy at all times both on and offline Furthermore, it is clear that individuals? privacy concerns are based on both real risks \(such as identity theft real risks exist. Trust enables the individual to feel more in control of a situation when the risks of the situation are unknown. Essentially, the degree of trust that individuals have in a third party affects their perception of the level of risk involved in any transaction with that third party The next two sub-sections review the existing literature on online trust and Rotter?s concept of the locus of control [35]. Section four derives the final online privacy theory  3.1. An Exploration of Online Trust  Liu et al. [36] believe that trust is a complex social phenomenon that reflects technological, behavioural social, psychological and organisational aspects A body of research suggests that in order to facilitate individuals making trusting decisions online which may include imparting personal information online, the counterparty must engender a perception of trustworthiness. The literature suggests a number of characteristics that collectively create a perception of trustworthiness [37-39].  Most researchers differ when identifying the exact characteristics. Nevertheless, a set of common characteristics have been derived Table 4, taken from [40] summarises these Table 1.  Perceived characteristics of trustworthiness Perceptions of trustworthiness Researcher 


Researcher Competence Integrity Benevolence 41 Ability Integrity Benevolence 42  Competence Benevolence Integrity 43 Ability Integrity Benevolence 39   Knowledge and expertise Openness and honesty Concern and care 44 Competence Concern Openness Reliability 45 Competence Benevolence Values 46 Ability Integrity Benevolence 47 Knowledge and expertise Openness and honesty Concern and care 37 38 Competence Integrity [48  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 If imparting personal information online involves making a trusting decision, this literature could be interpreted as implying that online trust is a prerequisite for imparting personal information There is sufficient evidence to suggest that individuals differ greatly in their tendency to trust [39 49-51] and an individual?s propensity to trust is frequently proposed as one of several key determinants of online trust [39, 50-53]. Nevertheless, it must be noted at this point that because of the subjective nature of online trust, it is not possible to measure exactly how much trust is needed in a given scenario to ensure online privacy concerns do not arise  3.2.  The Locus of Control  The second concept that is part of online privacy is that of an individual?s locus of control.  The concept of locus of control was formulated by Julian Rotter in [35 and it refers to an individual?s generalized expectations concerning where control over future events in their life resides. ?Internal control? is the term used to describe the belief that control of future outcomes 


resides primarily in oneself while ?external control refers to the expectancy that control is outside of the individual, either in the hands of powerful others or due to fate or chance Individuals with an internal locus of control believe that they control their own destiny. They also believe that their own experiences are controlled by their own skill or efforts [54]. People who have an external locus of control tend to attribute their experiences to fate, chance, or luck. The situation is out of their control. These individuals generally do not learn from previous experience. Since they attribute both their successes and failures to luck or chance they tend to lack persistence and not have high levels of expectation [54 Generally, the formulation of locus of control stems from family, culture, and experience. Most so called internals have been shown to come from Figure 1 A model for online privacy  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 families that focused on effort, education, and responsibility. On the other hand, most externals come from families with a low socioeconomic status where there is a perceived lack of control over their lives [55  3.3 The Model Explained  In light of these facts, that each individual typically experiences varying levels of trusting behaviour and has varying expectations regarding the sources of control, figure 1 shows an interpretation of online privacy by way of a model. This model aims to highlight areas where privacy concerns arise so that measures can be taken to reduce them. The model represents  The process by which an individual strives to achieve their desired level of privacy  The influencing factors that impact upon the possibility of achieving the desired level of privacy, namely Online privacy concerns Trust in the behaviour of external bodies The need to feel in control Other needs, for example, the need to buy items online requires the individual to submit credit card details to a third party online The 5 step process outlined in figure 1 can be explained as follows  Individuals move between the four dimensions and functions of privacy, outlined by Westin, until they achieve their desired level of privacy \(1  They then encounter external factors from their environment, which impact on an individual?s ability to achieve their desired level of privacy, such as privacy concerns and the need to interact with 3rd parties. As a result, they settle on an acceptable level of privacy \(2  They take action to implement the acceptable level of privacy. The actions they take are heavily influenced by their propensity to trust and whether they have an internal or external locus of control. As a result, the personal actions differ from individual to individual \(3  They continue to take action until the achieved level of privacy equals the acceptable level of privacy \(4  They maintain that level of privacy until a new level is required due to internal and/or external changes and the process starts again \(5 


and the process starts again \(5 Drawing together these ideas, the following statements regarding the concept of online privacy must be outlined before the online privacy theory can be presented 1. Some degree of trust is a prerequisite for individuals to impart personal information online 2. Individuals need to feel in control of their personal space while online 3. A privacy theory should incorporate both concepts of trust and control in some manner if it is to describe accurately privacy in an online environment The next section outlines the privacy theory formulated by this research based on these statements  4. A Theory of Online Privacy  This section proposes a definition of online privacy based on the literature and then goes on to develop this definition into a theory of online privacy. Online privacy, from the perspective of the individual, is defined as follows Online Privacy is the continuous process of negotiating, with relevant third parties, an optimum or acceptable level of disclosure of personal information in an online environment This process involves a form of trusting behaviour on the part of the individual and encompasses both access to and use of their personal information In light of this definition, the concept of online privacy can be seen as a subjective decision-making process which necessitates negotiation with third parties for the continuous protection of personal information. Additionally, the optimum or acceptable level of online privacy for a given individual is greatly influenced by the individual's personal characteristics and pressures from their external environment. The principal pressures upon an individual from their external environment are  The quantity and reliability of the information that is available to the individual about the security of any personal information that they may have imparted online and the use to which that information may be put  The strength of the desire of the individual to obtain the goods, services or information provided by a third party The dominating personal characteristics influencing an individual?s optimal level of online privacy are  Whether the individual has an internal or external locus of control. Individuals with an internal locus of control would have more of a need for the provision of online privacy guarantees such as privacy seals and privacy policies. Such individuals need to feel they are in control before they feel comfortable with imparting their personal information online. Individuals with an external locus of control would have less of a need for such provisions Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5  An individual's propensity to trust online third parties. Individuals with a high propensity to trust have a lesser need for privacy guarantees Inversely, individuals with a low propensity to trust have a greater need for privacy guarantees and for provision of information regarding the use of their personal information  4.1. Conceptualising Online Privacy  


 The need for online privacy arises when individuals decide upon a level of social or commercial interaction that they desire from an online experience. They then take measures to reach this level.  As seen from Westin?s theory, there are four states of privacy within which an individual moves. These states of privacy are applicable not only in a physical space, but also in a virtual space Solitude, in an online context, translates into the desire of the individual to ensure that their actions and movements are not monitored while online. Goodwin in 13] argues that individuals often seek such solitude when purchasing items either online or offline for three main reasons. The first reason is to enhance the quality of the consumption experience. The second is to avoid interference from disapproving reference groups and the third is to avoid the discomfort associated with selfdiscrepancy. She argues that while it is widely accepted that public displays of possessions communicate information about oneself, concealment can also help an individual achieve self-presentational goals. By achieving consumer solitude, the individual can maintain his or her presented self to specific audiences while experimenting with consumption behaviours to express a variety of possible selves The state of intimacy over the Internet means that being secluded in small online groups allows for the fostering of close relationships within those groups These small online groups can exist in various guises over the Internet. For example, social networking sites blogs and newsgroups allow for users to experience intimacy while online by being a member of a small group or community The state of Internet anonymity means freedom from identification and from surveillance or observation of any kind [56]. This is the state of privacy that allows individuals to be able to browse the Internet with a considerable amount of identity protection. Internet anonymity is not absolute. That is, the degree of anonymity one enjoys may vary. However, through a combination of public-key encryption and special anonymous remailer computers, messages can be sent over the Internet with a high degree of certainty that they cannot be traced to their originator [57 Additionally, individuals can use cyber cafes as well as a variety of more sophisticated \(and some illegal techniques to remain anonymous online Reserve over the Internet encompasses actions such as an individual restricting the circulation of their email address to close friends in order to avoid unwanted advertising emails and spam. Additionally individuals are entitled to expect that propagation of their sensitive information, such as their financial or health information is limited and controlled. However not only information that is deemed private by society should be protected. Individuals have the right to determine what they consider their private information to be Even though an individual has a desired privacy state, they will sometimes need to accept a less than desirable state of privacy in order to interact in that environment. This is due to the influences of factors in the external environment which are outside of the individual?s control. This less than desirable state of privacy is defined as the optimal or acceptable level of privacy that is achievable in a given external environment Once the optimal level of privacy has been decided upon by the individual, they can then carry out a series of actions to ensure it is achieved. For example, an 


of actions to ensure it is achieved. For example, an individual may wish to remain anonymous while on the Internet, but over time the desire to buy an item online becomes stronger than remaining anonymous Therefore, the individual carries out a series of preliminary actions to assess the risks involved in submitting their personal information \(such as credit card details asking friends how safe it is to buy online, or checking the privacy policies of the vendor website to ensure the site safeguards personal information. Once individuals have assessed the online environment and the perceived risks involved, there are two choices available to them. They can decide that the need to buy online outweighs the perception of the risk of submitting their personal information, or they can decide to remain anonymous and forego the purchase Individual choose the actions that bring them closest to their optimal level of privacy It is important to mention at this point that the desired level of online privacy is a non-monotonic function similar to Altman?s description of the traditional concept of privacy. That is to say that complete online privacy is not necessarily the optimal solution. It is possible for an individual to experience too much or too little online privacy. When there is too much online privacy \(actual &gt; desired level may be deprived of the opportunity to interact online On the other hand, when there is too little privacy desired &gt; actual level Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 more online solitude. The goal of this research is to obtain the optimal level of privacy for every individual at all times. The next subsection gives examples of how this research can be used to achieve that goal  4.2. Application of the Theory  As stated in the previous section, the ultimate aim of this research is to obtain the optimal level of privacy for every individual at all times. In order to achieve this goal, this research suggests giving control of an individual?s privacy back to the individual. In doing so the individual?s personal privacy preferences will determine the level of online privacy they experience One possibility which would give control back to the user would be to build a privacy slider application into web browsers which would allow the individual to specify their desired level of online privacy before going online.  The slider could contain four privacy levels. These levels correspond to the states of privacy outlined in Westin?s theory Choosing the solitude level on the privacy slider, the first of Westin?s privacy states, would translate into the desire of the individual to prevent people they know offline from finding out their actions and movements online. By selecting online solitude, the individual maintains his or her offline self to offline audiences while experimenting with various online behaviours The level of intimacy on the privacy slider corresponding to the second of Westin?s privacy states allows a select number of other users to see when the user is online. Being secluded in small online groups allows for the fostering of close relationships within those groups, while being invisible to the outside online world by blocking tracking applications and cookies If the user chooses the anonymous level, the third of Westin?s states, they will be able to browse the Internet with a considerable amount of identity protection as the user?s IP address will be withheld. Additionally, the privacy slider, when set to this level, will block any 


privacy slider, when set to this level, will block any attempts by websites to track the user?s online movements or to download any cookies onto the user?s machine The reserve level of the privacy slider, the fourth of Westin?s privacy states, restricts the possibility of identifying the user to a specified list of ?trusted websites. If an unknown website seeks the user?s identification, a warning message will appear reminding the user that the website is not a trusted site Additionally, cookies and tracking applications will be blocked for all but trusted sites. This allows an individual to restrict the circulation of their personal information to trusted third parties Individuals can specify, from a list within the slider application, what they consider their private information to be and therefore what information to protect In order to ensure a user?s desired state of privacy is achievable while interacting online, users must continuously assess the online environment and take necessary action. The privacy slider could aid the user in achieving their desired level of privacy by continually monitoring the online situation and the user?s actions. It could use dynamic privacy policies and privacy policy agents to adjust and readjust a user?s privacy needs for the duration of their time online. If the user?s desired level of privacy is not possible as a result of the need to interact with online third parties, the privacy agents negotiate an ?optimal level of privacy \(see figure 1 prompting the user for the best course of action to take in the form of privacy messages and warnings. This allows the user to set their privacy according to their propensity to trust and the level of control they need in order to feel comfortable about their online privacy The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C  set up a project called the Platform for Privacy Preferences \(P3P that allows the encoding of human-readable privacy policies into machine-readable XML. This specification could be used to develop the privacy slider application The privacy slider could have two main functions Primarily, it could activate privacy policy agents which compare the user?s desired level of privacy solitude, intimacy, reserve or anonymity website?s XML privacy policy, \(however, a limitation of this is that not all websites have XML privacy policies Secondly, the privacy application has functionality that acts in much the same way as a reputation system The user has the ability to independently rate their experiences, by answering a series of questions with regard to how trustworthy they perceive the website to be and how they feel their private information is handled by the website A type of collaborative filtering algorithm could then determine ratings for the website in question These privacy reputation ratings could be stored in an independent database. However, a limitation of this scenario is that it would take time for websites to build up their privacy reputations and also it is not clear where the independent database could be stored Whenever the user re-visits the website in question, their privacy slider application would check not only the websites XML privacy policy but also this reputation rating and verify it was equal to or above the privacy requirements of the user. If the privacy reputation rating was below the user?s privacy requirements then a conflict would occur and the user Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 


7 would be notified immediately.  In this situation, the user could decide to ignore the privacy warning and continue interacting with the website or they could choose to disengage from the privacy negotiations and move onto another website. Such a system might also avail of independent agent information such as reliability ratings \(cf. eBay design such machine interfaces in a way that minimalizes the requirement for user intervention and in a similar manner to current spam filters, such a system could learn over time to ?know? its user?s preferences The conclusion discusses the contributions and the future work of this research  5. Conclusions and Future Work  The next step in this research is to validate the privacy control theory. This will be achieved by carrying out a series of non-participant observation sessions over a six month period. The sessions will be carried out by observing computer literate individuals while they spend time online. Each session will last for one hour and each participant will be observed for a minimum of 10 hours over the six month period. The participants will be a representative mix of male and female Irish adults of various ages The overall objectives of this research are twofold Firstly, it seeks to develop, through the use of an online privacy model, a theory of online privacy that reflects adequate privacy needs in all online experiences Secondly, once a theory of privacy has been satisfactorily defined and validated, it can be used to form the basis for the design of an interface between the user and the Internet The importance of this research lies, firstly in defining the concepts of online privacy which in turn contributes towards determining an individual?s privacy needs in the digital world. Secondly, it lies in contributing towards preventing privacy abuses to that individual once they have divulged private information online. If the latter is achieved, this research will have contributed towards regaining control of the online privacy of not only adults but also of the most cherished and most vulnerable in society, children  References  1] CBS News, "Laptop with bank details of over a million Britons sold on eBay," vol. 2008: CBS News, 2008 pp. http://www.cbc.ca/consumer/story/2008/08/26/ebaybritain.html 2] Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, "A Chronology of Data Breaches," vol. 2008. San Diego: Retrieved on 23rd January 2008 from: Privacy Rights Clearinghouse http://www.privacyrights.org/ar/ChronDataBreaches.htm 2005 3] A. F. Westin, "Social and Political Dimensions of Privacy," The Journal of Social Issues, vol. 59, pp. 431-453 2003 4] United Nations, "Universal Declaration of Human Rights," in General Assembly resolution, vol. 217, United Nations, 1948, pp. A \(III 5] The Council of Europe, "The European Convention on Human Rights," in C364, European Union 1950 6] The Council of Europe, "The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union," in C364 European Union, 2000 7] S. J. Milberg, S. J. Burke, H. J. Smith, and E. A Kallman, "Values, Personal Information Privacy, and 


Kallman, "Values, Personal Information Privacy, and Regulatory Approaches," Communications of the ACM, vol 38, pp. 65-74, 1995 8] C. Fried, "Privacy [a moral analysis]," in Philosophical Dimensions of Privacy: An Anthology. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1968, pp. 333-345 9] J. H. Moor, "Towards a theory of privacy in the information age," ACM SIGCAS Computers and Society vol 27, pp. 27-32, 1997 10] H. T. Taviani, "Philosophical Theories of Privacy Implications for An Adequate Online Privacy Policy Metaphysics, vol. 38, 2007 11] S. Zhao, "Do Internet Users have more Social Ties? A Call for Differentiated Analyses of Internet Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, vol. 11 2006 12] E. Boritz, W. G. No, and R. P. Sundarraj, "Internet Privacy: Framework, Review and Opportunities for Future Research," Available at SSRN http://ssrn.com/abstract=908647 2006 13] C. Goodwin, "A Conceptualization of Motives to Seek Privacy for Nondeviant Consumption," Journal of Consumer Psychology, vol. 1, pp. 261-284, 1992 14] S. T. Margulis, "On the Status and Contribution of Westin's and Altman's Theories of Privacy," The Journal of Social Issues, vol. 59, pp. 411-429, 2003 15] S. T. Margulis, "Privacy as a Social Issue and Behavioral Concept," The Journal of Social Issues, vol. 59 pp. 243-262, 2003 16] S. T. Margulis, J. A. Pope, and A. Lowen, "The Harris-Westin?s Index of General Concern About Privacy An Attempted Conceptual Replication," vol. 2007: Seidman College of Business, Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A Notes, 2006 17] N. Marshall, "Dimensions of Privacy Preferences Multivariate Behavioral. Research, vol. 9, pp. 255-271 1974 18] H. Nissenbaum, "Protecting Privacy in an Information Age: The Problem of Privacy in Public," Law and Philosophy, vol. 17, pp. 559-596, 1998 19] W. A. Parent, "A New definition of Privacy for the Law," Law and Philosophy, vol. 2, pp. 305-338, 1983 20] M. Rotenburg, "What Larry Doesn't Get: Fair Information Practices and the Architecture of Privacy Stanford Technology Law Review, 2000 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 21] A. F. Westin, Privacy and Freedom. London: The Bodley Head Ltd, 1970 22] I. Altman, The Environment and Social Behavior Monteray, California: Brooks/Cole, 1975 23] M. S. Ackerman, L. F. Cranor, and J. Reagle Privacy in e-commerce: examining user scenarios and privacy preferences," presented at The 1st ACM conference on Electronic commerce Denver, Colorado, United States 1999 24] J. A. Casta  eda and F. J. Montoro, "The effect of Internet general privacy concern on customer behavior Electronic Commerce Research, vol. 7, pp. 117-141, 2007 25] G. S. Dhillon and T. T. Moores, "Internet Privacy Interpreting Key Issues," Information Resources Management Journal, vol. 14, pp. 33-37, 2001 26] T. Dinev and P. Hart, "Internet Privacy Concerns and their Antecedents - Measurement Validity and a Regression Model," Behaviour and Iinformation Technology vol. 23, pp. 413-422, 2004 27] J. F. George, "The Theory of Planned Behavior and Internet Purchasing " Internet Research: Electronic Networking Applications and Policy, vol. 14, pp. 198-212 2004 28] Harris.Interactive, "Privacy On and Off the Internet 


28] Harris.Interactive, "Privacy On and Off the Internet What Consumers Want," Privacy &amp; American Business Hackensack, New Jersey 22 May 2007 2002 29] K.-L. Hui, H. H. Teo, and S.-Y. T. Lee, "The Value of Privacy Assurance:  An Exploratory Field Experiment MIS Quarterly, vol. 31, pp. 19-33, 2007 30] G. R. Milne and M. E. Boza, "Trust and concern in consumers' perceptions of marketing information management practices.," Journal of Interactive Marketing vol. 13, pp. 5-24, 1999 31] J. Phelps, G. Nowak, and E. Ferrell, "Privacy Concerns and Consumer Willingness to Provide Personal Information.," Journal of Public Policy &amp; Marketing, vol. 19 pp. 27-42, 2000 32] J. E. Phelps, G. D?Souza, and G. J. Nowak Antecedents and Consequences of Consumer Privacy Concerns: An Empirical Investigation.," Journal of Interactive Marketing, vol. 15, pp. 2-17, 2001 33] H. J. Smith, S. J. Milberg, and S. J. Burke Information Privacy: Measuring Individuals' Concerns about Organizational Practices," MIS Quarterly, vol. 20, pp. 167196, 1996 34] M. Moloney and F. Bannister, "Online Privacy Measuring Individuals? Concerns," in EC Web 2008, G. Psaila and R. Wagner, Eds.: Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2008, pp. pp. 21 ? 30 35] J. B. Rotter, "Generalized expectancies for internal versus external control of reinforcements.," Psychological Monographs, vol. 80, pp. 1-28, 1966 36] H. Li, Z. Chen, X. Qin, C. Li, and H. Tan, "Secure Routing in Wired Networks and Wireless Ad Hoc Networks 2002 37] B. Barber, The Logic and Limits of Trust. New Brunswick, New Jersey: Rutgers University Press, 1983 38] V. T. Covello, "Trust and Credibility in Risk Communication," Health Environment Digest, vol. 6, pp. 1-4 1992 39] M. k. O. Lee and E. Turban, "A Trust Model for Consumer Internet Shopping," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 6, pp. 75-91, 2001 40] R. Connolly and F. Bannister, "Consumer Trust in Internet Shopping in Ireland: Towards the Development of a more Effective Measurement Instrument," Journal of Information Technology vol. 22, pp. 102-118, 2007 41] S. C. Chen and G. S. Dhillon, "Interpreting Dimensions of Consumer Trust in E-Commerce Information Technology and Management, vol. 4, pp. 303 318   2003 42] A. Bhattacherjee, "Individual Trust in Online Firms: Scale Development and Initial Test," Journal of Management Information Systems vol. 19, pp. 211 - 242 2002 43] D. H. McKnight, V. Choudhury, and I. S. R. C Kacmar\(2002 for E-Commerce: An Integrative Typology, 13\(3 359., "Developing and Validating Trust Measures for ECommerce: An Integrative Typology," Information Systems Research, vol. 13, pp. 334-359, 2002 44] R. G. Peters, V. T. Covello, and D. B. McCallum The Determinants of Trust and Credibility in Environmental Risk Communication: An Empirical Study Risk Analysis, vol. 17, pp. 43-54, 1997 45] A. K. Mishra, "Organizational Responses to Crisis The Centrality of Trust," in Trust In Organizations, Kramer M. Roderick, and T. Tyler, Eds. Newbury Park: Sage, 1996 pp. 261-287 46] S. B. Sitkin, "On the Positive Effect of Legalization on Trust," in Research on Negotiation in Organizations, vol. 5, R. J. Bies, R. J. Lewicki, and B. J Sheppard, Eds. Greenwich: CT: JAI Press, 1995, pp. 185217 


217 47] R. C. Mayer, J. D. Davis, and F. D. Schoorman An Integrative Model of Organisational Trust," Academy of Management Review vol. 20, pp. 709 ? 734, 1995 48] J. K. Lieberman, The Litigious Society. New York Basic Books, 1981 49] P. J. Ambrose and G. L. Johnson, "A Trust Model of Buying Behavior in Electronic Retailing," presented at The Association for Information Systems, Baltimore, MD 1998 50] D. Gefen, "E-Commerce: The role of familiarity and trust. ," The International Journal of Management Science, vol. 28, pp. 725?737, 2000 51] N. K. Malhotra, S. S. Kim, and J. Agarwal Internet Users' Information Privacy Concerns \(IUIPC Construct, the Scale, and a Causal Model," Information Systems Research vol. 15, pp. 336-355, 2004 52] D. H. McKnight and N. L. Chervany, "What Trust Means in E-Commerce Customer Relationships: An Interdisciplinary Conceptual Typology.," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 6, pp. 35-59, 2001 53] D. H. McKnight, L. L. Cummings, and N. L Chervany, "Initial Trust Formation in New Organisational Relationships," Academy of Management Review, vol. 23 pp. 473-490, 1998 54] D. Gershaw, "Line on Life: AIDS and Teenagers vol. 2008. Retrieved from http://virgil.azwestern.edu/~dag/lol/AIDSTeens.html, 1989 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 55] H. Levenson, "Multidimensional Locus of Control in Psychiatric Patients," Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, vol. 41, pp. 397-404, 1973 56] A. Pfitzmann and M. Hansen, "Anonymity Unlinkability, Unobservability, Pseudonymity, and Identity Management ? A Consolidated Proposal for  T e r m i n o l o g y   7  M   A   F r o o m k i n    A n o n y m i t y  and Its Enmities " Journal of Online Law, vol. Article 4 1995 58] "Platform for Privacy Preferences \(P3P Enabling smarter Privacy Tools for the Web," vol. 2006 World Wide Web Consortium, 1994    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


the packets, and one quarter-second later, three packets of size 512 bytes are sent, followed one-quarter second later by one packet of size 256 bytes The accumulated bytes sent with respect to time in seconds are shown in Figure 17 Total Bytes Seconds Figure 17: Accumulated bytes for the example pattern The packets described above have been inserted into a set of network trac packet collected from the author?s laptop over roughly 4 minutes of usage starting at w = 240 seconds. The total accumulated outgoing bytes are illustrated in Figure 18. To apply the basis looking for this specic pattern, we Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 accumulate the bytes on quarter-second intervals and generate a wavelet decomposition for a sliding 4-second window, which is compared to the original pattern?s decomposition with the UPVH. The UPVH for the dierent starting times are shown in Figure 19. Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time Total Bytes Seconds Figure 18: Accumulated outgoing bytes of a sample usage period plus the packets in our pattern UPVH Seconds Figure 19: UPVH values \(less than 50 blocks of data with digerent starting times Note the low value of the UPVH at w = 240 seconds, indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time In fairness, this method of nding patterns has many of the same weaknesses found in other signature-matching approaches. The pattern has to be known ahead of time, which means that this detection scheme would still be vulnerable to rst-time attacks. Also, a completely innocuous data ow occurring with very similiar timing and quantities as our pattern will still cause a low UPVH value, possibly causing a false-positive alert. We do claim 


however, that we have a greater capacity for nding patterns in quantiable amounts that are obscured by standard network trac. Also, we can adjust the sensitivity of the search without changing the signature for which we are searching, by adjusting the threshold of the UPVH?s for which an alert is issued. Thus, statistical techniques and adaptive learning can be used to help develop optimal threshold levels for a particular pattern 4. Conclusion Wavelet analysis holds an as-of-yet untapped potential for analyzing usage patterns in network trac ows, due to their ability to lter out data up to a given approximation order. Neither simple character searches nor Fourier analysis has this capability. Also, while Fourier analysis generally gives only frequency information within an analysis window, wavelet analysis gives some amount of both frequency information and the location of that frequency activity. The additional information comes at no additional computational costs, since the bases are generally applied by convolving matrix lters over the data \(repeated matrix multiplication over sliding blocks of data tiwavelet bases introduced in this document should prove to be particularly useful in pattern-matching applications, due to their short support \(that is, non-zero only over a small interval the inclusion of splines in the approximation spaces instead of just polynomials, and the ability to use them on time series with left and right boundaries The author is currently working with computer scientists at the CyberDefense Lab \(CDL at Western Kentucky University to develop software that will utilize these bases in network security, intrusion-detection, and data-extrusion applications. Once developed, we will study the eectiveness of this type of analysis in detecting malicious behavior as compared to the more commonly used techniques, with the hope of improving detection capabilities while maintaining a low false-positive rate. The software will initially be tested in the CDL?s sandbox while running attacks from its attack library with various background usage scripts being implemented, but will eventually move to less controlled network environments Acknowledments: This work supported in part by the NACMAST consortium under contract 


EWAGSI-07-SC-0003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References 1] C. K. Chui and Q. T. Jiang, ?Multivariate Balanced Vector-Valued Renable Functions?, in: V. W. Haussmann, K. Jetter, M Reimer, and J. Stockler \(Eds velopment in Multivariate Approximation, vol 145, Birkhauser Verlag, Basel \(2003 102 2] G. Donovan, J. Geronimo, and D. Hardin Intertwining Multiresolution Analyses and the Construction of Piecewise Polynomial Wavelets?, SIAM J. Math. Anal. 27\(6 1996 1791?1815 3] J. Geronimo, D. Hardin, and P. Massopust Fractal Functions and Wavelet Expansions Based on Several Scaling Functions?, J. Approx. Theory 78:3 \(1994 4] D. Hardin and B. Kessler, ?Orthogonal Macroelement Scaling Vectors and Wavelets in 1-D?, Arab. J. Sci. Eng. Sect. C \(Theme Issue: Wavelet and Fractal Methods in Science and Engineering: Part 1 2003 5] D. Hardin and D. Roach, ?Multiwavelet Prelters I: Orthogonal Prelters Preserving Approximation Order s  2?, IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II: Analog Digital Signal Proces 45\(8 1998 6] B. Kessler, ?An Orthogonal Scaling Vector Generating a Space of F1 Cubic Splines Using Macroelements?, J. Concrete Appl. Math Special Issue on Wavelets and Applications 4\(4 2006 7] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?Balanced Multiwavelet Theory and Design?, IEEE Trans. Signal Process. 46\(4 1998 8] J. Lebrun and M. Vetterli, ?High Order Balanced Multiwavelets?, in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech, Signal Processing ICASSP May 1998 1532 9] J. Lian, ?Armlets and Balanced Multiwavelets Flipping Filter Construction?, IEEE Trans Signal Process. 53\(5 2005 10] I. W. Selesnick, ?Balanced GHM-like Multiscaling Functions?, IEEE Signal Process. Lett 6\(5 1999 


Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





