A  New Prediction Function for File Replication in Mobile Grids Xiaodong  YAN                        Xiaobing  ZHAO                   Guosheng  YANG School of Information Engineering,      School of Information Engineering            School of Information Engineering Minzu University of China,             Minzu University of China,                  Minzu University of China Haidian Beijing 100081, China          Haidian Beijing 100081, China               Haidian, Beijing 100081, China National language resource             National language resource                  National language resource monitoring & research center,           monitoring & research center,                monitoring & research center 
Haidian Beijing 100081                Haidian, Beijing 100081                    Haidian, Beijing 100081 E-MAIL: yanxd3244@sina.com.cn       E-MAIL: nmzxp_cn@163.com               E-MAIL:gs_yang2002@yahoo.com.cn   Abstract 227A major problem in mobile computing is the optimal distribution and replication of data files in the Grid sites, in order to improve and maintain over time a high overall throughput of Grid jobs that access files. Therefore, a Grid optimization service should be able to dynamically modify the geographic distribution of data files, triggering file deletion and replication, according to the variation over time of the sites where data is highly requested 
In this document we propose a novel prediction function for evaluating the future usefulness \(value\of data files. This function can be used by Grid sites to make informed decisions about whether or not to replicate files locally. We have performed some preliminary tests on the accuracy of this function using randomly generated simulated file access patterns and also compared the predicted values with the simulated values. It turns out that, over the performed tests, the novel function predicts the simulated values reasonably well and has big advantage than former functions  Keywords 
 mobile grid  data replica ; value prediction; Zipf distribution  I. INTRODUTION In[1 a n ap p ro ach b a s e d on an ec on om i c  m odel  f o r o p t i m i z i n g file replication in a Data Grid is proposed. In short, in the model there are two main classes of actors. Computing Elements \(CEs have the goal of making data file available for access to Grid jobs on the site where they are executing. CEs try to purchase the cheapest replicas of needed files by interacting, via an auction protocol, with Storage Brokers \(SBs\ located in the Grid sites SBs have the goal of maximizing revenues they can obtain by 
selling files to CEs or other SBs. In the economic model the usefulness of a file is proportional to the revenue a SB can obtain from it. SBs have to decide whether replicating a file to the local site is a worthwhile investment. Since Grid sites have finite storage space, this could also result in deleting other files. In order to make a replication \(and deletion\decision, SBs may use various strategies. The prediction function that estimate the future revenue of a stored file based on the past revenue of this file and of files with similar contents could be used for the decisions In [2  t w o t y pes of pr ed i c t i on f u n c t i o n s b as e d  on  a  B i n o m i al  
and a Gaussian distribution\ are defined and some experimental evaluation are performed on them. Those two prediction functions only take into account sequential correlation between file requests. In this paper we put forward a novel prediction function considering both sequential correlation and geographic correlation between files requests to evaluate the future revenue of a stored file and also compare its experimental results with the functions in       II. FILE REQUESTS AS A RANDOM WALK THE SPACE OF FILE IDENTIFIERS During the execution of Grid jobs a SB receives a sequence of file requests, either from CEs or other SBs that have been 
requested a file that they do not have. To make predictions we exploit two important heuristics of the file request process namely 1. Geographic correlation \(requests for the same file are clustered in locality and time 2. Sequential correlation \(requests for files containing similar/sequential data are clustered in locality and time  We make the following three assumptions on this sequence Request arrivals with exponential distribution  As for many similar phenomena that have been studied in queuing theory, we can assume time intervals between two successive file requests being independent random variables with 
exponential probability distribution of parameter 037  Therefore, after each file request \(e.g., arrived at time t0\, the probability t\ that a new requests arrives within the time interval t-t0 is given by The work in this paper was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of china \(60663008 978-1-4244-3693-4/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 


001\(t\ = 1-e-\037\(t-t0\                          \(1 Where the decay rate 000 represents the average number of requests in a time unit Sequential correlat ion between file requests  We assume that SBs receives over time file requests that are sequentially correlated. This means that, given a file request there is a great probability of successive requests for files with similar content We can model content similarity by first defining the file space{ F} as the set of all the potentially Requested files and the file-ID space{ f }as a set, with the same cardinality as{ F} , of file identifiers. File identifiers are assumed to be integer positive numbers. We can then define content similarity as a mapping M between {f } and{ F} as follows. Assuming two file-IDs f1 and f2, the closer they are, i.e. the smaller the difference\037f2- f1\037 the higher is the expected relation between the contents of the corresponding files F1 and F2 Geographic correlation betw een file requests  We also assume that SBs receive over time file requests that are geographically correlated. This means that, given a file request, there is a great probability of successive requests for files clustered in locality. The file space {F} as the set of all the potentially requested files and the file-ID space{f }as a set, with the same cardinality as{ F} , of file identifiers are defined. File identifiers are assumed to be integer positive numbers. We can then define content similarity as a mapping M between {f }and F} as follows. Assuming two file-IDs f1 and f2, the closer they are, i.e. the smaller the difference\037f2- f1\037, the shorter is the expected distance between the locations of the corresponding files F1 and F2 Given the assumptions above, we can represent the history of file requests as a random-walk in the space {f} of file identifiers A random-walk consists of a sequence \(fi, i 000 0 \f identifiers and is obtained starting from an initial identifier f0 and adding a sequence \(si , i > 0\ of random walk steps, each of which leads from fi-1 to fi, i.e. si = fi-fi-1; i > 0. Each generic step s is an independent random variable which may assume values within the interval [-S w h ere 2 S  is th e m a x i m a l d i f f e r e n c e  b e t w ee n  the identifiers of two successively requested files. This way, we can model a symmetric random walk with variable step size III. DEFINING THE PREDICTION FUNCTION In [2 t w o f u n c t i o n s b a s e d on  a bi n o m i al di s t ri bu t i on an d a  normal distribution are brought forward. Here we will use a new zipf distribution function to predict the future revenue of a file and then combine it with binomial distribution function to form a hybrid prediction function. The first function takes into account sequential correlation and the second one considers geographic correlation. We can vary the coefficients in the expressions according to the requirement. The novel function is defined as follow  A. Prediction Function Based On a ZIPf Distribution Recently research on www shows that there is a Zipf-like distribution in the number of hits per page[7  S o w e w ill tak e  zipf distribution as a prediction function for the future revenue of a file  In [2 w e d e f i n e a f u n c ti o n E  V f  k  n   r th at ca lcu l a t es th e revenue and predicts how many times the file f will be requested over the next period of time considered. The index r indicates that estimation is made on the basis of the r file requests received by the SB before the request for file f. The function V\(f, k, n calculates the revenue for the file F corresponding to the identifier f starting from time tk and taking into account the next n file requests. It is defined as  f    f    n  k  f  V i 000    n k k i 002  9 2 9  We choose a particular shape for the probability distribution of a generic s, which represents the step between two successive identifiers in the random walk. Here, we assume that a generic step s in the random-walk is a discrete random variable with zipf distribution \(Here we assume the exponent in zipf distribution is 1\ . We consider a symmetric random-walk with integer random step size, always belonging to the interval [-S  M o r e ov er  w e  can model the fact that once a file has been requested, the chances of it being requested are half. The definition of the distribution p\(s\ and its mean value, standard deviation are given  3  1  0 0 2  1   0       000 000 000 000   003  S s s s p s s c s p s 002  For example, with reference to Figure 1, the probability of S 3 is given by 2*c\(1+1/2+…1/S\+1/2=1 =>c=3/22 007 p\(-3\\(+3\1/22,p\(-2\p\(+2\3/44, p\(-1\p\(+1\=3/22 p\(0\=1/2 Each identifier fi represents the file requested at the i-th step in the random-walk and is obtained starting from the initial identifier f0 and following the path through the first i steps of si>. Thus we can write  4   1    f 0 1 0 i      000  S i f f s f f i j j 002  Each sj is an independent random variable with symmetric zipf distribution. According to the C-K equation[8  T h e  probability p\( f \ of receiving a request for file f\(f 000 f0\t different step are given by  


 Figure 1  zipf distribution centered on zero with S 3          5     1     3   1     2   1  1  1       1   0  1  0   1  1 0 2 0  2 2 3 0 0 0  0  1 2 0 0 1 nS f f f f f p f p S f f f f f p f p S f f f f f f f f f p f p S f f f f f p j j s n j s n j n n j j s j s j j s j s j j j s j s j j 004    004    004   005     004    000 000 000 000  003     003   003   003   000 000   So we can write 000   n i i f p 1    n k  f  E[V  6    We define the parameters n and S n First of all we have to fix a time interval T’ in the past that serves as the basis for our estimation.Then T be the future interval for which we intend to do the prediction. So, r is the number of requests received in the last period of length T’. By assuming that the arrival rate of requests will stay the same, n is obtained by n=rT/ T’              \(7 Obviously if T = T’ then n = r S We want to give an estimation of the width S on the basis of the past. Suppose going backward in time from t0 to t-r. Doing a reverse random-walk and considering Equations \(4\ we can say that for each j going from 1 to r, variable f-j should have a variance given by j\(S+1\. The best estimation we have for this variance is \( f0 –f-j\2. Calculating a weighted average on these quantities we obtain an expression for S 1   1 1 2 0    000   r j j j f f r s 8   B. Prediction Function Based On a Hybrid Model Sometimes files requests are both sequentially correlated and geographically correlated. So we might define a novel prediction function which is combined by two prediction functions based on binomial or zipf distribution. We do it as this 9  E[V\( f, k, n f, k, n f, k, n 9   C1, C2  are the coefficients, E1[V\( f, k, n obtain e d by  taking into account sequentially correlation and E2[V\( f, k, n\,r 9 geographically correlation. C1, C2 could be altered according to the requirement. While C1=0, only geographically correlation is considered. C2=0, sequentially correlation is considered only Otherwise the result E[V\( f, k, n\,r is th e m ean v a lu e o f th e  E1[V\( f, k, n\,r n d E2 V f, k  n  r   IV. PRELIMINARY TESTS AND RESULTS  In this section we present preliminary tests for the prediction functions defined in \(6\ and \(9\In order to perform these tests we first generated some sequences of file requests and thus obtained some random walks like the one in Figure 2. The figure shows a random-walk with about 1000 file requests for files whose identifier is in the range [1,20  In th e f o ll o w in g   w e  ref e r  to these file requests as real   Given a certain position within the sequence of file requests we calculated E[V\( f, k, n n  6  a n d 9  E1 V f, k, n r ba sed  on zipf distribution and E2[V\( f, k, n\,r b a s e d on  bi n o m i al  distribution. They give the prediction of the future number of requests for file f. In addition, we calculated the real file value by counting the number of times file f was requested from that position on. Iterating over a segment of the sequence we obtained a first qualitative evaluation of the performance of these functions We provide graphical representation of simulated and estimated values over a segment and compare these graphs. The result of the graphical representation performed over a sequence of simulated file requests is shown in Figure 3\(a,b,c\. The figure 3\(a,b,c\compare the prediction functions based on a binomial distribution ,a zipf distribution model By performing a sufficient number of experiments and also from the graph we can find that the prediction functions based on a zipf distribution model is superior over binomial distribution  3     -2    -1    0    1    2     3      s 1  22 3  44 1  22 3  44 3  22 1  2 P s  3  22 


    file request Figure 2: Random walk describing simulated access pattern  Figure 3 \(a\ Progress of predicted values based on a binomial distribution and real values over a sequence of 200 file requests  Part of our research is to test the effectiveness of various replication strategies by using a Grid simulator in the future. We have to make a simulator behaving like a real multi-site Grid where a certain number of jobs are scheduled to different Grid sites These jobs request files querying \(directly or indirectly number of SBs that in turn may or may not have the requested files. When a file is found, SBs make a decision about local replication of the files by using of different prediction function defined in this paper. By running the simulation for a certain big\ber of Grid jobs using various replication strategies we will be able to make a comparison and thus to choose the most effective strategy REFERENCE 1  M   Car m a n  F  Z i ni L  S e ra_ n i  a n d K  S t o c ki ng e r T o w a r d s an  Economy-Based optimisation of FileAccess and Replication on a Data Grid In H.E. Bal, K. L¨or, and A. Reinefeld, editors, Proc. of 2ndIEEE/ACM Int Symposium on Cluster Computing and the Grid \(CCGrid'2002\, pages 340.345,Berlin, Germany, May 2002. IEEE Computer Society. Also appears as Technical Report 0112-04,ITC-irst, September 2001   Figure 3 \(b\ Progress of predicted values based on a zipf distribution and real values over a sequence of 200 file requests    Figure 3 \(c\ Progress of predicted values based on a hybrid model and real value over a sequence of 200 file requests  2 L  C a p o zza  K  St ock i n g er an d F  Z i ni Preli m i n a r y E v a l u a ti on of R e ven u e  Prediction Functions for Economically-Effective FileReplication. Technical report, DataGrid-02-TED-020724, CERN,Geneva, Switzerland, July 2002 3  W  H  Be l l  D  G  Cam e r o n L  Ca po z z a A  P  Mil l a r  K  S t o c ki ng e r a nd F   Zini. Simulation of Dynamic Grid Replication Strategies in OptorSim Technical Report DataGrid-02-TED-3613, EUDataGRID Project, June 2002 4  W P 2 D a ta Ma nag e m e nt Q u e r y  O p ti m i s a tio n T a s k D e s i g n o f a Re pl ica  Optimisation Framework. http://edms.cern.ch/document/337977 5  W  H  Be l l  D  G  Cam e r o n, R.C a r v ajal S chi n af f i no P  M i l l a r  K  S t o c ki ng e r   and F. Zini. Evaluation of an Economy-Based File Replication Strategy for a Data Grid[C n  I n t. W o r k s h o p o n A g e n t bas e d Cl us te r an d G r id Co m p u t i n g  at Int. Symp. On Cluster Computing and the Grid \(CCCGrid 2003\,Tokyo Japan, May 2003. IEEE CS Press  6  W  H  Be l l  D  G  Cam e r o n.L  Cap o z z a P  M i l l a r  K  S t o c king e r a nd F  Z i ni  Simulation of Dynamic Grid Replication Strategies in Optorsim.[J   Int.Journal of High Performance Computing Applications. 17\(4\ 2003 7 B e rn a r d o A H Pe t e r L  T P Ja me s E  e t a l  St ron g re gu la ri t i e s in w o r l d w i d e  web surfing[J S cie n ce 1 99 8 2 80 4  9 6  8  D a j i n L U 002 Random Process and Its Applications[M   Be ji ng 002 Tsinghua Press.1986 002 8 9 XU Xin g y u  L I  Z h en c h a o  T h e R e la t i on s h ip of Di s t rib u t i o n A m on g S C  G. K. and A. J.Journal of Linyi Teachers’College, 2000\(3\:54-56   File id V.  FUTURE WORK 


products they e interviewed ators within a organization is a variety of nology design hic series of ted fieldwork e observation n and printed in long-term 4]. However le visits with ctual products own usage of f observation l engagements rief, they were of a long-term vering several ndings briefly raphic detail 04-5 as part of gy that would bargoed until elieve that the anged in DP dge, our work man-computer nology olved detailed t did not test ch could be testing, which search project  es students in the ecruited and ng behaviors spects of their take notes in ndouts, on a review their or type their and so forth tiple examples of their notes, and to provide a co of notes taken during a recent sample notes were later review length, writing style, and types of  3.1.2. Findings. Respondents multiple kinds of content in n action items, personal notes, r etc e.g., notebooks class handouts taking on a class handout. For a ranged from 1-5 pages, with a mode 4 pages, median 3 pag students \(11/19 a single set of notes. 7/19 stude items; 7/19 mixed personal note and 6/19 marked off sections th notes from other materials. 10 hierarchical outline method when the others used a free-form narrat  Figure 1. Example annotate  Drawings or other graphi 


included on 12/19 samples, and given note that was graph approximately 5% of the note?s 5% graphics mean of approximately 13% g common graphics were arrows conceptual relationships \(present related graphic samples related drawings \(54 Among textual elements subject heading, 10/19 were strikeouts, 13/19 had subject-spe math or scientific symbols highlighting. Among all of the present on 7/19 samples personal and 80% were cl approximately 60% were demarc content and 40% were intermixe 3/19 samples included multiple l of English and one or more foreig  3.1.3. Implications for DP. Th four important implications for D py of a complete set class lecture. These ed and coded for content reported mixing otes \(course notes eminders, doodling th dedicated papers ental papers \(e.g an example of note single class, notes mean of 3.7 pages es d print styles during nts included action s with course notes at separated course 19 students used a taking notes, while ive style  d class handout cal elements were the proportion of a ical ranged from content \(95% text no text raphics. The most or lines illustrating in 69% of contentes and non-subject s or tables \(23 15/19 included a dated, 6/19 had cific symbols \(e.g d 4/19 had added noted action items ximately 20% were ass-specific, while ated from the other d with class notes anguages \(a mixture n languages ese results suggest P technology. First Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 the importance of environmental paper implies that a large portion of student 


implies that a large portion of student unavailable to a DP system that relie paper; students? notes would be segreg that are available on PC and pape available only on paper Second, much of the content appe archival in quality, such as transient doodles, and other personal notes content, such as remarks about classm unwanted in an archive. Third, the wid of drawings, arrows, doodles, outl scientific symbols, and foreign languag automated text recognition would b implement and might have low accurac Fourth, in many cases, the impor appears to be more about their role a within a process \(such as reminders bearers of content as such. A DP implements content facsimiles wit integration will have limited value for t  3.2. Research Series 2: Consumer Note-taking Samples  3.2.1 Method. Adult native-speaking P US and Japan were recruited for one h sessions to watch an educational docum native language and take notes. Note with a ballpoint pen on regular no mounted on a 9?x12? Wacom Intuos2 which provided instrumented data on reported here documentary on DVD and take notes a attending a lecture or conference, in w they would customarily take notes. S when one complete page of notes had b  3.2.2 Findings. 17 respondents comp trials, and 8 completed the Japan trials typical notes are shown in Figure 2 \(US Japan was significant cultural variation in no notes tended to be sprawling and w difficult for others to decipher, whe notes were clearer and more organize also substantial similarities: in both the notes were taken sequentially but frequ over time with additional notes callouts, or strikeouts; the informati brief and often mnemonic rather descriptive or narrative; and diagramm were used frequently to illustrate relatio concepts and to highlight important info  and handouts notes will be s up patterned ated into notes r, and those ars to be non action items Indeed, some ates, might be espread usage ine methods es means that e difficult to y tance of notes s placeholders rather than as system that 


system that hout process hose notes Laboratory C users in the our laboratory entary in their s were taken tebook paper digital tablet writing \(not d to watch the s if they were hatever style essions ended een taken leted the US Examples of  samples, there te-taking: US ere frequently reas Japanese d. There were US and Japan ently amended clarifications on taken was than fully atic elements nships among rmation 3.2.3. Implications for DP. The demonstrate the potential value First, note-taking was observe sequential with much attention to highlighting important terms, ca details, and so forth documents to assist with informat memory triggering [8], rathe repositories of narrative facts. T facsimile notes that are appropri and significantly extend it simultaneously available on both short, notes taken in this labora better fit for DP than those observ among student note samples  Figure 2. Example of  Figure 3: Example of Jap  3.3. Research Series 3: Produ  3.3.1. Method. Participants interviews who had note-taking h DP technology were invited to pa long field study of an exis Participants were judged to hav note-taking behavior if they took regular basis for school or pro archived the notes for later rev se note-taking trials of DP technology d to be primarily mnemonic function lling out significant s serve primarily as ion assimilation and r than as textual he DP model yields ate for such review 


ate for such review as notes are paper and PC. In tory context were a ed ethnographically  US notes  anese notes ct Field Trials from ethnographic abits appropriate for rticipate in a monthting DP product e ?DP appropriate detailed notes on a fessional purposes iew, and expressed Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 interest in using a DP product given a Logitech io2 Digital Pen kit [12] and additional notebooks \(approximate retail value US 150 interviewed at intervals of one to two weeks and again at one month to determine their DP usage pattern. Follow-up interviews included discussion of how they used the DP product, benefits and limitations, review of notes taken with it, and changes in their note-taking behavior, including continued usage or abandonment of the product  3.3.2. Findings. 8 full-time office workers and 7 fulltime university students participated. After two weeks, 7/8 knowledge workers and 5/7 students had stopped using the DP product. Primary reasons they stopped were \(a special pen and paper; \(b notes taken on dedicated paper, as opposed to the value of writing on handouts and other documents c instead of paper; \(d of handwriting recognition ? users frequently said that a digital system has little value unless it can automatically transcribe notes Among the 3/15 people who continued using DP the primary value was to have an archive in case of loss of important handwritten documents, such as artistic sketches. After one month, no knowledge worker \(0/8 1/7 the product. The 7 college students were asked: if they lost the product, how much would they pay for a replacement? Most said they would pay $10 or less and none said he or she would pay more than $25  3.3.3. Implications for DP. The primary finding is that existing behavior with pen and paper fits most people?s needs well and is difficult to change. People experience significant advantages from the ability to use any paper, from any source, with existing pens; to be able to use existing writing devices with any paper-based document; the ready availability of pens pencils, and paper in their common environments and the low cost of traditional pens and papers Using DP requires attention to one specific pen and one kind of paper. Given the low perceived benefit of PC-based review of notes, most users had little incentive to engage in such a change in behavior The low stated value and nearly unanimous abandonment of product usage in this trial imply that adoption of similar products would likely be low  


 3.4. Research Series 4: Enterprise Site Visits  3.4.1. Method. The research team identified 28 organizations that represented a breadth of industries that were expected either to be significantly interested in DP note-taking applications for individual employees \(e.g., professional services expected to be largely uninterested \(e.g manufacturing team visited in person if possible \(N=23 scheduled conference calls with representatives N=5 interviewed both individual knowledge workers and IT management who were responsible for knowledge worker productivity systems. The interviews surveyed organizations? note-taking and retention practices, collected samples of hand-written artifacts observed knowledge worker workplaces \(when possible to what they viewed as potential applications for DP in their workplaces  3.4.2. Findings. The breakdown of organizations visited is shown in Table 2. Among the organizations 8/28 expressed high interest in DP technology principally in professional services, law, and education and research organizations. Common penrelated artifacts in those organizations were personal notes taken during meetings \(either internal meetings or client meetings do lists; and business-related drawings \(charts engineering drawings, architectural sketches, etc  Table 2: Summary of Organizations Visited  Line of business US  Outside US Finance N=3 N=2 \(Japan Insurance N=1 N=1 \(Japan Healthcare N=3 N=1 \(Japan Law N=3 Professional services and consulting N=2 N=1 \(India N=1 \(Canada N=1 \(Japan Transportation and manufacturing N=4 Education and research N=2 Government services N=2 Publishing  N=1 \(Japan  Organization size US  Outside US Medium \(100-999 employees N=3 N=1 \(Japan N=1 \(Canada Large \(1000-9999 employees N=6 N=3 \(Japan N=1 \(India Very large \(&gt;10000 employees N=11 N=2 \(Japan  The key benefits of DP technology were viewed as retention of information for intellectual property Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 backup, assurance of regulatory compliance issues e.g., documentation for patents 


search for information \(assuming handwriting recognition within centrally archived DP documents Among work artifacts, we observed frequent mixture of work-related and personal information on a single piece of paper \(for instance, meeting notes together with personal reminders frequently taken on environmental paper \(meeting handouts, the unprinted side of discarded documents sheets of copy paper, note pads, etc freely mixed text and drawings In some cases, text was mixed between a native language and a foreign language or other linguistic context. For example, engineering and research organizations often included mathematical symbols healthcare facilities used many abbreviations, drug names, chemical terms, and Latin phrases themselves often abbreviated terms were often borrowed from German and English A frequent observation in business settings was the free availability and exchange of pens: people could expect offices and meeting rooms to have extra pens available such that there was little need to possess a personal pen. Participants also reported frequently losing pens Another striking observation was the sheer prevalence of paper documents. As Sellen &amp; Harper noted in The Myth of the Paperless Office [16], paper provides an interaction model that is well optimized for many uses and appears to be growing, not shrinking, in importance as offices are increasingly handling digital documents. In many cases, we observed the sheer exposed surface area of paper documents in an office \(e.g., the tops of document piles on a desk screen We observed significant cultural differences between the US and Japan. In Japan, knowledge workers reported attending fewer formal meetings than in the US, and it was common for meetings to have a dedicated note taker ? often a junior employee who produced formal notes \(minutes attendees. Thus, individual note taking in meetings appeared to be less necessary in Japan than in the US although the automation value of DP for the specified note-taking employee might be high Multi-color ballpoint pens appeared to be popular in Japan. In our individual sessions in Japan Research Series 2 above participants to have three-color retractable ballpoint pens. Ink colors were used for idiosyncratic patterns of content differentiation, e.g., separating facts recorded in a meeting from personal conjectures by writing them in different colors This pattern of writing with color was also observed during our enterprise site visits in Japan and suggests that DP technology may need to provide a simple way to meet the need for ad hoc content differentiation that color provides. Finally, signatures in Japan are generally given with a personal ink stamp \(?hanko This is a more important consideration for formal documents using DP than for note taking, but the need to implement a ?digital hanko? was a common observation of participants We also observed user-perceived barriers that were specific to various lines of business. For instance, in the Japanese insurance industry insurance agents are independent and sell policies for multiple companies; a single insurance company would find it difficult to require agents to work with proprietary DP technology. In US medical settings, a common concern was compliance with the 


common concern was compliance with the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA information privacy. Organizations were unsure whether DP products would be HIPAA compliant and even if the products themselves were secure whether their onboard information could be kept secure when the pens are small and easily lost  3.4.3. Implications for DP. Although there was substantial interest in DP technology among professional services and white collar organizations the ethnographic findings suggest that delivering appropriate value from DP technology would be difficult. The first barrier would be providing a platform that either conforms to or changes current behaviors around pen and paper: free availability of pens and unpatterned paper in the workplace behaviors of writing on environmental paper, and the need to keep up with a personal pen with one?s data The second barrier would be to meet expectations around text; much of the value was seen as being in retention and searching of textual information, but this would be made difficult by the frequent inclusion of acronyms, abbreviations symbols, and foreign languages. Many organizations saw value in centralized repositories that would manage DP information across many employees; this would require an IT infrastructure that was not available \(e.g., to manage the DP pattern space might be difficult and expensive to develop and maintain. It also poses questions about privacy, since employees might not wish the archive to retain personal information captured alongside work notes Finally, because we noted real or perceived barriers that were highly specific to various industries it appeared that DP solutions would be most likely to succeed if they were tailored to very specific settings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 and use cases. This does not argue against DP usage and its value, but it suggests that delivering value to organizations may require substantially more design and development effort than a single general solution or platform would provide  4. Discussion  Our findings show that the interaction model of DP technology diverges substantially from common pen and paper usage. This divergence leads to unclear utility of DP for consumer note-taking purposes, and in a field trial, resulted in high abandonment rate of a consumer DP product. Among the most significant limitations were the low value seen in review of facsimile notes on a PC, the requirement with DP to use a special pen paired with patterned paper, and the low perceived value of capturing only notes taken on blank paper as opposed to handouts and other materials. In the enterprise space, the environmental issues were even more prominent due to the common infrastructure of freely available, communal pens and paper and the lack of IT infrastructure for DP document retention The note-taking research reported here suggests that writing behavior comprises many important areas besides capture, retention, and review of specific data. For instance, a single blank piece of paper or a one-word reminder may adequately serve as a reminder to do something that one intends, even though there may be little or no content as such Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending 


Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending a lecture, it may be socially desirable to take notes even if they are later simply disposed. Taking notes may also serve purposes of memory consolidation even when the content is never reviewed [8][9  4.1 DP and Writing Acts  Linguistic acts in social context have been described using a model of performative behavior commonly known as ?speech acts? theory [15 Chapman [2] extended that model to encompass writing, suggesting that many aspects of ?writing acts are unique and separate from spoken language.  In the extended model, writing acts may be described with a multidimensional taxonomy encompassing a writer?s context, aspects of the process, type of content, and linguistic features of the content Table 3 summarizes the dimensions of writing acts \(from [2 exemplify each dimension. For instance, ?separability denotes the extent to which items in a document are logically independent of one another; in a contract nothing is separable because the document is a single piece, while on a to-do list, many or all items may be independent of one another [2 DP technology may benefit from attention to the dimensions that are exemplified by writing acts embedded in social contexts. DP systems may be able to perform some kinds of writing acts quite well, but in other cases, DP may be inconvenient, unnecessary or inappropriate. Models such as the writing acts framework can be used both to understand user behavior broadly and systematically to explore the applicability of DP products across the general space of writing behavior A key problem for DP in note taking applications is that note taking can involve nearly every possible dimension of writing acts. Notes may be separable or not; they may serve as functional content or as contextual reminders; they may present just the facts? or be more interpretive; they may be transient or might be intended to be archival documents; and so forth. In short, notes are able to present a vast array of writing styles that pose substantially different value propositions and technological implications for DP products Delivering a general DP solution for note taking may therefore be expected to be difficult  Table 3: Dimensions of Writing Acts [2  Dimension Exemplars Separability a contract vs. a to-do list Function a typed inventory list vs calligraphy Emotionality a love letter vs. a packing slip Spatiality a transcript of speech vs. a diagram depicting concept relationships Associativity notes from class vs. doodling Linearity chronological notes vs. notes placed in a spatial ordering scheme Originality an essay vs. feedback on a manuscript Prescriptivity a signature vs. general notes Finality a document that will be archival vs. one that is a draft Structure a grocery list vs. concepts from a brainstorm Personality a letter to someone vs. a 


Personality a letter to someone vs. a journalistic essay Formality a business letter vs. a greeting card to a close friend  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 For product development purposes, the writing acts framework can be used to ensure coverage of use cases by generating possible scenarios combining various attributes of written documents. These potential combinations may then be explored evaluated, and prioritized for research attention development effort, or testing  4.2 Possible Directions for DP Technology  4.2.1. Note taking. What would make DP technology more popular for note taking? Our research suggests that this is a complex question because there are numerous behavioral barriers. The largest single problem for DP may be that it is a closed system comprising a special pen and patterned paper and does not function with the wide array of writing utensils and paper products that people use especially for environmentally available pens, paper and documents. If this problem could be solved or mitigated through an expanded DP technology platform, DP would avoid the large behavioral block posed by the current need for users to change their existing pen and paper habits DP effectively focuses on notes as data neglecting many aspects of the embedded social nature and process function of notes. If DP notes were easily integrated into a wider range of behavioral processes, adoption should increase. For example, if notes could be automatically handled for content such as phone numbers, appointment times reminders, temporary content, and the like, then the DP platform would come closer to matching current pen and paper usage. However, in many cases, there is a separate and larger issue: computer technology today also is not integrated into such processes. To take a simple example, consider a written grocery list Even if the problem could be solved to recognize extract, and transfer the list to a PC, it would be of little use because, for most people, the PC itself is not integrated into the grocery shopping process. Much information of this kind is transient; there is no need to manage or retain it once the paper has been used An example of potentially closer workflow integration is shown in the recently released Livescribe Pulse Smartpen [11], which couples the Anoto DP platform with audio recording such that note takers can review the audio of a meeting or lecture at the exact point that a note was written. We believe that these kinds of additions to base DP functionality are likely to appeal to specific niches of users, but as more use cases like these are enabled over time, DP may successively attain value for larger numbers of users In our field trials and organizational visits, one of the most common customer expectations was that DP notes should be converted from handwriting to text; respondents commonly noted that PC data is of little use unless it is transcribed to text. To meet customer demands, a DP product will need to address this expectation: the DP must either deliver text recognition with very high accuracy, which is a difficult problem, or it should manage the expectation in some other way that preserves customer perception of value from PC integration 


of value from PC integration The high cost of DP products \(approximately US 100 for a pen, plus the need for specially patterned paper demonstrable additional benefit. Transferring notes from paper to a PC today merely involves typing Unless the need for automation is great and the DP function is nearly perfect, users may simply prefer to type or to carry paper rather than to change behavior to use expensive and less flexible technology  4.2.2. Structured input. As noted in the Introduction above, another use case for DP technology is structured input of information. In particular, DP technology may be useful for form-based input into database and workflow systems, where information is initially recorded on paper forms and then automatically transferred from the pen to a database application. Although the present research report is concerned primarily with note taking applications, in the course of our enterprise research we discussed potential applications for forms-based DP usage We noted possible use cases that fell into five general areas: \(1 easier input of information by customers, such as clients filling out deposit or withdrawal slips at a bank; \(2 information from paper to database without needing to rekey or type the information, such as factory inspection and quality assurance logs, traffic tickets shipping manifests, and so forth; \(3 environments that were not suitable for handheld computing devices, such as construction sites and some kinds of manufacturing facilities; \(4 in which paper-based records are desirable for either employee compliance or customer comfort, such as medical settings; and \(5 based records are necessary, e.g., for legal reasons but a DP product could support faster turnaround and error correction. An example of such application involved financial forms that undergo offsite optical character recognition; a DP system might allow immediate recognition and error correction We plan to report this line of research fully in the future. For now, we note that each of those areas has various benefits and potential limitations with regard to DP technology. Forms-based use cases are more precisely defined and structured than note taking, in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 terms of environment, workflow, and content; the information context, form design, and potential for systems integration with rapid feedback may mitigate issues with handwriting recognition; and enterprise customers may be less price sensitive than consumers Thus, structured input appears to be a more promising near-future application of DP technology than note taking  4.3 Research Discussion  As we noted above, the present research was primarily behavioral and qualitative. Thus, despite the strength and consistency of our results across multiple samples, contexts, and locations, we present no specific metrics or tested hypotheses on user behavior with DP products. Our findings could be used to inform directional hypotheses for future depth or quantitative research. For instance, one might formulate and test hypotheses about cultural differences, interest levels in DP between various groups such as professional and non-professional 


office workers, market research metrics such as price sensitivity, and the like It is important to underscore the value of ethnographic fieldwork in the present research. It would be possible to conduct design research that explores how to make DP technology better, e.g., in terms of usability and function, without investigating exactly what people would do with such products and why. It was only when we investigated behavior in depth that we discovered the divergence of DP products? limited current value for note taking, as opposed to the high value that one might presume in the absence of depth research  5. Conclusion  In our research, initial trials of digital pens in a controlled setting \(Research Series 2 above suggested potentially good fit between digital pen functionality and consumer note taking needs However, when we explored real world behavior in note taking \(Research Series 1, 3, and 4 above found many potential barriers to adoption of digital pens for note taking. In particular, traditional pen and paper offer advantages in terms of cost, widespread and ad hoc availability, flexibility to work with multiple sources seamlessly, behavioral workflow integration, and manageability of content The value of using digital pens will increase if manufacturers are able to expand their platform technology progressively to enable broader coverage of behavioral scenarios and habits, focusing on the broad range of writing behaviors rather than just needs for facsimile replication on a computer Alternatively, digital pen technology may be more easily applied to tasks involving structured input rather than unstructured note taking We suggest that DP development efforts should use existing linguistic frameworks \(e.g., [2 the space of writing acts of interest. This should allow DP products to target behavioral needs in a more focused manner, leading to higher customer adoption  6. Acknowledgements  We thank many people who participated in this research: first and foremost, the numerous research participants, firms, and organizations who so generously shared their time and insights, but who must remain confidential; and many colleagues and research partners at Microsoft who collaborated on the technology investigation and research efforts especially Jeff Staiman, Vince Ball, Brian Williams Yoshiyuki Moriya, Stephen Cooper, Dave Shen Setsuko Arimatsu, Benjamin Babcock, Dennis Meinhardt, John Chiloyan, Glen Larsen, Mehrdad Basseri, Lori Birtley, Ken Hinckley, and Jian Wang  7. References  1] Anoto Group. Digital pen and paper. Web page http://www.anoto.com/?id=158, last retrieved May 28 2008  2] Chapman, C. N. Writing acts: taxonomy and technological implications. Paper presented at North American Computing and Philosophy \(CAP Corvallis, OR, August 2005  3] Despont-Gros, C., B?uf, C., Geissbuhler, A., and Lovis C. \(2005 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





