Determinants of Outsourcing Success in the Financial Industry The Impact of Importance  Stefan Blumenberg E-Finance Lab Goethe University Frankfurt, Germany stefan@wiwi.uni-frankfurt.de  Daniel Beimborn Chair of Information Systems and Services University of Bamberg, Germany daniel.beimborn@uni-bamberg.de Sebastian F. Martin E-Finance Lab Goethe University Frankfurt, Germany smartin@wiwi.uni-frankfurt.de  
 Branimir Brodnik microfin GmbH Frankfurt, Germany b.brodnik@microfin.de  Clemens Gunne microfin GmbH Frankfurt, Germany c.gunne@microfin.de  Stefan Wendt microfin GmbH Frankfurt, Germany s.wendt@microfin.de   Abstract How does the overall importance of a particular outsourcing deal, as perceived by the provider, affect the quality and, subsequently, the performance of an outsourcing relationship? This work contributes to outsourcing research by investigating the role of 
relational governance and its drivers for achieving more successful outsourcing relationships. We focus on the impact of a particular contextual variable which describes the importance of the outsourcing deal to the vendor, thereby turning the traditional perspective of resource dependency theory on outsourcing upside down. Using a case study approach, we show the significance of the importance of a deal between an IT outsourcing provider and its client to both the relationship quality and overall outsourcing success Clients whose relative deal sizes are large compared to the provider´s portfolio or who offer a strategic 
advantage to the provider are more likely to receive sound service quality and have a better IT outsourcing relationship Keywords importance, relationship quality outsourcing success, IT outsourcing  1. Introduction There is general agreement in outsourcing literature that contractual governance is necessary but not sufficient for a successful outsourcing partnershi  This is why various research works have tried to shed light on a complementary element of contractual governance, called relational governance, relationship 
management or similar [53   Relational governance is the predominant governance mechanism associated with exchange performance  T h e ai m of relatio n a l governance is to raise the quality of the relationship between outsourcer and service provider as a means for achieving a more successful outsourcing relationship 50  T hus r e l a t i o ns hi p q u a l i t y i s a n i m p o r t a nt  m e a s ur e  by which the performance of relational governance 
may be assess  So far, most research on relationship quality has treated this element quite superficially as a singledimensional construct and has failed short to clearly differentiate between dimensions of relationship quality and its drivers However, there are two notable exceptions h ic h s p ecif ica l l y diff eren t i ate between drivers and dimensions of relationship quality They will serve in the following as a basis for our work As for the drivers of relationship quality, there are 
even fewer works that focus on those antecedents of relationship quality. Most of these approaches focus on variables which describe the interaction between client and provider \(i.e. communication, conflict resolution coordination, cooperation, and integration   Some other articles show the positive impact of contractual governance on the relational elements of an IT outsourcing arrangement A ll t h es e res e arch approaches are valuable for understanding the factors that lead to a good relationship quality. However current literature on relational governance disregards a 
central determinant of relationship quality: the socalled contextual factors th eir rev i e w o f  sourcing literature, Dibbern et al. conclude that IS sourcing is an ongoing decision process, which is influenced by changing contextual factors and environmental forces   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


Although IS literature has shown the importance of contextual factors in different organizational and interorganizational settings [18, 19 ere is on l y on e exception that takes into account contextual factors as drivers for relationship quality ee a n d Ki m  introduced cultural compatibility as driver for relationship quality but could not show a significant im  Attempting to close this gap, we contribute to relational governance literature by shedding light on one particular and, as we will show in this paper, highly relevant contextual factor that drives relationship quality the  importance  of the outsourcing deal to the provider which, in the following, we will refer to as importance By turning around the traditional application of resource dependency theory on the outsourcing domain, we propose that not only the provider possesses resources which need to be acquired by the client, but that the client has or represents a valuable resource from the provider s perspective, as well Our research question thus is what are the relevant facets of importance and how do they affect relationship quality and overall outsourcing success  From a practical viewpoint, this contingency factor seems to be highly important, since there is heterogeneity in the market \(e.g. in terms of firm size deal volume, and many other factors\which will lead the providers to not homogenously serving all of their clients. Consequently, tackling this research question will help to more thoroughly understand the providers  motivations and anticipate the resulting behavior in order to take sufficient care of the contractual design and to choose the right provider To answer our research question, we develop and apply a research model \(sect. 2 after introducing the methodology in section 3 to analyze eleven case studies in the financial services industry \(sect. 4 Section 5 illustrates the limitations of our approach. We conclude our approach and outline our further research in the final section 2. Research model and theoretical foundation The model that guides our research on better understanding of the causes for outsourcing success is presented in Figure 1. It consists of outsourcing success as an endogenous variable, importance of the relationship as exogenous variable and relationship quality as mediating factor. The constructs and causal relationships are derived from the literature and discussed in the following subsections   Figure 1. Research model 2.1. Outsourcing success Outsourcing success has been captured by means of many different measures in prior literature. These are e.g., realization of expectations an titati v e  measur d econ o m i c, tec hn olog ical, a n d strategic dimensions Ho w e v e r, th e m o s t  commonly used measure to capture outsourcing success in the literature is satisfactio h ich is de f i n e d a s  the level of fitness between the customer s requirements and outsourcing outcomes  T h is  perception-based measure has the advantage of enabling the assessment of the respective strategic objectives underlying every individual outsourcing decision. Lee and Kim e asu r e ou ts o u rcing success by focusing on the achievement of strategic economic, and technologies benefits of outsourcing  Koh p eration a lize ou ts ou rci n g  s u cce s s as  consisting of the overall satisfaction with the outsourcing deal and the desire to retain the outsourcing partner To complement this strategy-oriented measure with a more operations-oriented value, we follow the argumentation of Lee and Kim  w e ll as  Goles   d con s ider t h e a s pect o f  s e rv ice qu alit y recei v e d from the provider in our investigation. The quality of a purchased service is obviously of crucial importance for any service delivery and for IT outsourcing relationships in particular The measurement of service quality is difficult because services tend to be intangible   involve simultaneous production and consumption and integrally involve customers in their creation  Without tangible evidence to evaluate the service quality in outsourcing relationships, researchers need to rely mainly on subjective, perception-based measures rather than on objective measures P a ras u ra m a n et  al. [45, 46 trodu ced an i n s t r u m e n t  n a m e d SERVQUAL for measuring service quality based on the gap between expected and experienced service quality Cronin and Tayl h o w ed th at t h ere is  n o  empirical evidence that the gap between expected and experienced service quality has to be explicitly measured. Consequently, they develop a new instrument called SERVPERF, which only measures the experienced perceptions in order to capture service quality Kettinger et al itt et al. [49] an d W a tson et al 58 sh o w ed th e ap p licab ility o f SER VQU AL as a   Importance Outsourcing Success Relationship Quality H1  H2  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


measurement tool for information systems service quality which consists of four service quality dimensions: reliability, responsiveness, assurance and empathy es e f o u r di m e ns ions of IT  service quality for our study and follow the SERVPERF approach Therefore, in the following, satisfaction with the outsourcing decision in terms of the achievement of the individually planned goals and the received service quality is used as a measure for outsourcing success 2.2. Relationship quality Most of the prior literature dedicated to this subject is confined to a general understanding of the role of relationship quality between client and vendor [28, 30 33, 34, 43 sm al l e r s e gm ent of t h e ou t s ou rci n g literature develops a deeper understanding of the dimensions of relationship quality and its determinants 22, 23, 24, 25, 31, 38 Based on [2 38 an d on ow n  prev i ous l y  published work w e a pply a m u lti d i m ens i on a l  construct consisting of commitment, communication quality, conflict, consensus, forbearance, mutual understanding and trust Commitment  refers to an implicit or explicit pledge of relational continuity between exchange partners 16, 24, 26   Communication quality describes the efficiency and effectiveness of information exchange between partners 7, 8 Conflict  represents the overall level of disagreement in the working partnership   Consensus  is the extent of general agreement between parties  Forbearance  is forgoing certain behaviors that are not in the best interest of both parties  th e IT bu si n e s s ali g n m e n t li teratu r e mutual understanding is defined as the ability of IT and business  le v e l, to u n d ers t a n d an d be able to participate in the other´s key processes   Trust is the firm's belief that the partner firm will perform acts that will result in positive outcomes for the firm and not take unexpected actions that would result in negative outcomes T h e dev e lop m en t of this multi-dimensional relationship quality construct is described in detail in   Grov h o w th e i m portan ce o f  partnership elements such as trust for outsourcing success by defining partnership quality as the mediating variable between the degree of outsourcing and outsourcing success. Lee et al. [38, 39 eate partnership quality and demonstrate its effect on outsourcing success. In their seminal paper about the complementarity of relational and contractual governance, Poppo and Zenge h o w ed t h e influence of two relationship quality dimensions, trust and open communication, on outsourcing success. Lee  m i t m e n t to be on e of th e  m a i n  drivers of outsourcing success. L o u n d  trust to be a highly relevant predictor of outsourcing success. In the same vein, Goo and Nam o u n d  trust and commitment to have a positive influence on outsourcing success Based on this previous literature about the positive impact of relationship quality on outsourcing success we pose the following hypothesis   H1: High relationship quality is related with high outsourcing success 2.3. Importance The outsourcing deal with a particular client exhibits a certain degree of importance to the vendor. The client portfolio of an IT provider ideally contains multiple firms, having different sizes, demands, and receiving different services and volumes. The simplest argument would be the larger the contract volume the more important is the client to the provider. As we will discuss below, there are multiple other aspects which form this concept of importance, and we therefore define it as the degree to which a client has significance for a provider compared to the provider s overall client portfolio We believe that importance, like deal size and the strategic importance of an outsourcing deal for a particular vendor, is a crucial factor in an IT outsourcing relationship since the provider will draw special attention to this relationship. This importance might have several facets that will be discussed in the following. We will give a brief overview of other factors from literature that affect outsourcing success and which are comparable, but not identical, to importance. We close this paragraph by showing which theoretical foundations can be helpful in explaining importance Firm size is a frequently used control variable in empirical research. Many papers in organizational science focus on the linkage between firm size and innovation [1, 13, 27 or o n t h e i n fl ue nc e o f fi r m si z e  on the willingness to engage into cooperative ventures 6, 10 In th e IS ou ts ou rci n g con t e x t, Ang et al. [3  could not falsify that large banks are less likely to outsource than smaller banks  th os e  contributions, firm size is an absolute measure that influences variables like innovation potential or outsourcing willingness Furthermore, most IT outsourcing papers use dependency as a construct influencing relationship quality [38, 39, 40 all y th is co n cep t ste m s f r o m  the work of Anderson et al h ey co m p u t e th e  dependency in a wholesale distributor/manufacturer environment as the difference between the switching Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


costs of a distributor firm minus the replacement costs of its manufacturer firm that has to relocate its sales to another client. We argue that Anderson´s et al  dependency measure is very helpful in a supply chain context but cannot be directly transferred to an IT outsourcing context for three reasons: first, most outsourcing deals fall into the category of infrastructure, application or even business process outsourcing. Outsourcing customers rely heavily on their IT without being able to switch the provider during the deal period without high efforts \(in many cases, switching costs might be higher than maintaining the current relationship\he dependency on an IT provider is much higher than in many supply chain relationships, therefore, the threat of lock-in is often argued to be one of the largest strategic risks of outsourcing \(e.g T h e application of Anderson´s d en c y  m e a s u r e w o u l d mostly result in an exceptionally high dependency value and would therefore not be able to evaluate an IT outsourcing relationship. Second, Anderson  focus only on the costs associated with dependency in partnerships. We believe that IT providers in a sourcing market, which gets more and more complex and competitive, also consider strategic reasons for choosing their clients. We pose to also integrate strategic considerations like the marketing impact of a certain client, the access to a not yet tapped industry sector \(from the provider s point of view\e visibility of the provider´s service via a client in a certain industry sector. Third, Anderson´s et al  dependency measure does not take future investments into account. We believe that the behavior towards the customer depends on the expectation of the provider. If the provider expects to do additional business transactions with this customer in the future, he will pay more attention to the customer needs Different deal volumes as well as different strategic motives are the basis for a balance or imbalance in the relationship. Power dependence theory deals with balance or imbalance in a relationship [20, 47  w h ere  power is a property of the social relation, not an attribute of the actor  P o w e r res u lt s f r o m  th e  dependence of actors on each other, where actors can be individuals or groups  Another perspective that helps us to explain this kind of balance is the resource dependency theory RDT\This theory focuses on resources which are outside of the firm s control but which are needed for successfully doing business or even for surviva  Consequently, the objective of firms to ensure their resource supply without losing autonomy is the reason for cooperation between firm A ppl y i ng RDT to outsourcing research is quite uncommon \(some of the rare examples are [9, 29 Us u a ll y  it is argu ed that the provider possesses resources which the outsourcer lacks Bu t, w e can al s o draw t h e opposite link where the outsourcer has or represents a resource the provider is trying to get access to. One of them is acquiring a renowned player as a reference client in order to, e.g., get access to new markets via a key player, another is to attract a client which has a unique characteristics, e.g. in terms of size or technological infrastructure, which can serve as a pilot customer or strategic partner for testing and developing new industry solutions Based on these theories we formulate the following hypothesis  H2: A high importance has a positive impact on relationship quality  3. Case study methodology and setting 3.1. Case study methodology We test our proposed research model with multiple case studies to explain the presumed causal links in real-life interventions that are too complex for a survey  order to de riv e s u ff icie n t resu lts  f r o m a  case study approach, these have to be prepared conducted and analyzed thoroughly w i n g  Dubé an e ide n ti f i ed th e re s earch qu e s tion and made it explicit. The questionnaire was refined using a pretest 1 All interviews were conducted by two researchers. They lasted about two hours each and were tape-recorded. The collected data was transcribed and analyzed using MAXQDA and a self-developed case study database, which allows for a simple but efficient comparison of case data Based on our research model, two researchers encoded the transcripts independently to identify patterns that match with theoretical propositions and constructs 3.2. Case studies setting Our case study series comprised selected IT outsourcing relationships of four German banks and seven outsourcing providers. In each firm we interviewed the manager\(s\ponsible for a particular relationship to either a provider \(in banks\ client in provider firms\All interviewed providers deliver services to the banking industry, thus, we were able to focus solely on outsourcing relationships with financial service providers      1 We would be glad to provide you with the questionnaire. Please send an email to the first author Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


Table 1. Description of banks involved in the case study series Banks F1  F2  F3  F4  Financial sector Commercial bank Credit cooperative Savings bank Credit cooperative Employees 10,000 1,000 1,000-5,000 1,000-5,000 Contract runtime 2003 2013 2000 2010 2004 2009 2004 2008 Outsourced service IT infrastructure application hosting Business process credit processing IT infrastructure Data center Interviewees Provider manager Provider manager Provider manager service manager \(data center Provider manager Provider firm Global IT provider Small specialized BPO provider \(P4 Global IT provider \(P6 Global IT provider \(P6  Table 2. Description of providers involved in the case study series Providers P1  P2  P3  P4  P5  P6  P7  Employees 1,0005,000 1,0005,000  50,000 1,0005,000 1,0005,000  50,000 5,00050,000 Contract runtime 2006  2009 2002  2009 1999  2013 2000  2010 2005  2012 2001  2012 1994   Provided service IT infrastructure Communication infrastructure IT infrastructur e, application management Business process Application management IT infrastructure IT infrastructure mainframe N umber of contract extensions 0 2 1 several times 0 1 several times Interviewees Business manager Account manage r Business manage r Account manage r Account manager Business manager Account manager Client Comm bank and FSP Large credit cooperative F2 Large comm bank and FSP Credit cooperative Credit cooperative Comm bank and FSP Small comm bank  As a consequence, the comparison of the banks and the providers is supported by a very homogeneous setting   all companies operate in the same market   all companies and investigated outsourcing relationships are subject to the same outsourcing and compliance regulations in the German banking industry   at the time of the case study series, all contracts already had a minimum runtime of at least one year   all interviewees are very experienced with outsourcing and were involved in all phases of the investigated deal The German banking system consists of three different groups: private commercial banks, publicly owned savings banks and credit cooperatives. The two latter groups count for around 80% of the German market in terms of number of institutes. Our case study covers two credit cooperatives, one savings bank and one commercial bank. Demographic information about the banks is presented in Table 1 All surveyed providers are large companies with more than 1,000 employees or even huge and global organizations, \(with one exception \(P4\\ operating on the international outsourcing market. Demographic information about them is presented in Table 2 4. Case study results 4.1 Importance and relationship quality We analyzed the transcripts of the interviews to explore the facets of importance which might influence relationship quality. The results in terms of quotes from the bank managers as well as from the providers are presented in Table 3 and Table 4, respectively. They have been translated from German to English and were cross-checked by a second researcher to guarantee their correct translation  Table 3. Quotes from bank managers Quote No Bank Quote QF1 F4 The provider exhibits a high level of commitment within this relationship because we are of strategic importance for him. We offer him access to our financial sector and are one of his reference customers  QF1 F3 In terms of the deal volume and other factors we are relatively unimportant for our provider. As a result, communication with the provider is inefficient as we are only discussing with lower hierarchical levels  QF3 F2 The commitment of our provider increased in the last years as competition does in the BPO market. Without this increasing competition our provider perceived itself as a department de luxe  QF2 F1 We are the much more powerful part in the relationship. E.g., we are the only customer of our provider that uses its data center right now. Hence, we show only little forbearance   F4 reports to be very important for the provider Since the bank is a key player in its market sector, it can offer access to this sector to the provider \(QF1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


The provider does not have any further customers in this field. F4 argues that the provider is very interested in acquiring more customers via the relationship with F4. Hence, the provider shows a high level of commitment F3 has totally different experiences with its provider This bank rates its own importance from the provider s perspective to be relatively small \(QF1\er does F3 represent a high deal volume nor does it offer any other advantages to the provider. As a result, the relationship quality is rated as being low and communication with the provider is inefficient. The communication does only happen on lower hierarchical levels without the possibility to change or develop major things F2 reports an increasing commitment of the provider because of increasing competition \(QF3\ provider is a 50% spin-off and it was the first BPO service provider on this particular market segment in Germany In the first years of the relationship, F2 was the only customer of its provider. In this situation, F2 describes the behavior of the provider to be very reluctant. The provider did not have to fear any consequences for restrained behavior. Neither were any competitors in the market nor were sufficient SLAs established at this point in time. An exogenous shock, namely the market entry of other providers with the same offers, changed the behavior of F2 s provider, who showed a much higher commitment then  Table 4. Quotes from providers Quote No Provider Quote QP1 P2 We offer this customer special management attention because he is a reference customer  QP2 P3 We show high commitment because of the special position as reference customer in our portfolio  QP3 P4 Commitment, in this case, correlates with relevance of the customer. We are in a strategic alliance with him  QP4 P3 The importance of the relationship strategic alliance o r bo th par tie s l eads  to a  mutual lenience  QP5 P1 We are highly committed because this customer is very important for us in terms of the deal volume  QP6 P6 Based on our IT infrastructure our customer delivers services to nearly every company in the [German f i na nc ial  in dus tr y   A failure of our IT services would be immediately visible for every organization This is why we are that much committed  QP7 P7 We are hyper-committed because this customer is one of only a few mainframe customers [in Germany   F1 has an interesting relationship with its provider Both the deal volume and the contract runtime are extraordinary high. The provider invested in an expensive data center for its customer and is contractually allowed to run applications of other customers in this facility. But, so far, the provider did not acquire any other customers and could not reach economies of scale. Hence, the customer regards itself to be in a powerful position and thus shows only little forbearance \(QF2 Both P2 and P3 regard their customers to be very important because they are reference customers in the financial industry \(QP1 and QP2\Both relationships are highly visible in the market as both providers advertise their association with their customers. For P4 there is also another highly relevant factor to provide its customer with an extra portion of attention \(QP3 The relationship between P4 and his customer is evaluated by P4 to be a strategic alliance. P4 is a spinoff of this particular customer who also provides the highest deal volume, compared to P4 s other customers. Both P4 and its customer jointly develop products and have implemented an ongoing process optimization. P3 argues in a comparable vein. Their relationship with the customer is considered to be a strategic alliance in terms of the longevity of the liaison and the closeness of cooperation \(QP4\ As a result of this closeness and longevity, P3 believes the relationship to be highly forbearing. However, there are also other, much more simple reasons, why providers exhibit high commitment. P1 offers his customer special attention because it has a very high deal volume QP5\ P6 has another explanation for its high commitment towards its customer. This financial service provider is highly visible in the market as it provides services to nearly every company that requires pre-transaction financial customer information. This high market visibility has a massive impact on the provider s commitment \(QP6\eside these relational factors, the provider also accommodated this customer by agreeing upon process oriented service level agreements \(SLAs\ider is one of the big players in the market, process-oriented SLAs are a new development that have been accepted by the provider because of the customer´s importance. P7 provides mainframe solutions to its customer. Since this customer is one of only a few mainframe clients in Germany, P7 regards itself to be hyper-committed  QP7 The above quotes about the link between importance and relationship quality document the support of both banks and providers, for our first hypothesis which states a positive relationship between the importance of banks and relationship quality \(H1\ks with high relevance for their providers \(in terms of e.g. strategic considerations like visibility in the market as reference customer or economic considerations like the deal volume\pected to have a better relationship quality than banks that are less important Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


4.2. Relationship quality and outsourcing success We want to briefly shed some light on the impact of relationship quality and outsourcing success with the available data from our sample  We found that all providers rated the outsourcing to be successful. However, this evaluation is hardly reliable, since the provider is acutely threatened by the self-evaluation bias. This is why we only take the answers of the customers into account. Table 5 illustrates the results for the banks in our sample. Banks with a high importance for their customer tend to have a good to very good relationship quality and, in turn rate their outsourcing arrangement to be successful Only F4 does not support this reasoning. Although the importance of F4 for his provider is high, the relationship quality is evaluated as medium  Table 5. Comparison of importance relationship quality and outsourcing success for banks Bank Importance Relationship Quality Outsourcing Success F1 High Medium to high High F2 High High High F3 Low Low Low F4 High Medium High  A closer look at this case helps to explain the discrepancy between both values. F4 has a very contract-oriented, formal relationship with its provider We have reached a point where we say: we first set-up the contract and only then comes the service Service manager, F4  F4 has implemented a sophisticated control system and, in case of errors, the bank insists on contractually agreed-upon penalties, even if these are minor faults without impact on the operations Yes, we do use control mechanisms. Every piece of information flows into a performance measurement system that we have built. And I can always track if the output we agreed upon with our service provider stays within the planned parameters both quantitatively as well as qualitatively  W e ha v e  a sophisticated penalty system, which reacts quite sensitively [to contract violations    The provider mu st o ften  p a y p e n a lties. At th e en d  o f th e  day, it s all about money. The provider doesn t do this for us because we re good friends. He wants to earn money. And [penalties h u r t him mos t   Provider manager, F4 As a result, the relationship is not very trustful and forbearing. Therefore, the overall relationship quality is medium while outsourcing success is still perceived by the bank as high As far as the available data from the cases allows us to draw a conclusion, the results support the findings from previous literature that highlight the positive correlation of relationship quality and outsourcing success, as described in H1 5. Limitations Generalization of our work is limited as we tested our model with only eleven case studies, which stem from the same industry and business context. However we assume that they can also be transferred to other industries since they cover a wide range of outsourcing relationships \(from IT infrastructure outsourcing to BPO\d different organizational/legal relationships between outsourcer and IT provider. Large associations of public savings banks and credit cooperatives, which cover almost 80% of the German banks, are a particularity of the German banking industry. Since these banks have usually outsourced their IT to joint data centers, the effect of having no competition \(and thus no market-oriented incentives on the provider side\will be quite strong. By contrast, in our case study series we have analyzed almost only relationships where industry-external IT providers are engaged except in case of F2\heref ore, the transferability of our German findings to other countries will not be restrained by this particularity. Moreover, since our research tried to emphasize a better understanding and a broader conceptualization of importance we did not examine an overall model which tries to incorporate each facet that might be relevant for outsourcing relationship quality. Hence, there can be other explanations for the differences in service quality and relationship quality. Nevertheless, since the first results were promising, we have already started to collect more cases. Doubtless, there are many other factors which impact relationship quality and outsourcing success like, for instance, a thorough outsourcing contract, regular information exchange and a control system in place [24, 38 s th e g o al of this research approach was the analysis of importance as a driver of relationship quality and, implicitly of outsourcing success, the other relevant impact factors of relationship quality were omitted here 6. Conclusion and further research In this paper, we defined importance as the significance of a customer from the provider s point of view compared to its overall customer portfolio and we showed the impact of importance on relationship quality. Relationship quality, in turn, is positively Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


related with outsourcing success. IT outsourcing clients whose importance in the provider´s portfolio is high are more likely to experience a good relationship quality and, thus, a successful outsourcing relationship Based on eleven case studies in the German financial industry, we found importance to be a twodimensional factor. Both banks and providers report about economic and strategic dimensions of importance. The surveyed banks regard economic factors to be more relevant than strategic reasons Providers, in turn, rate both dimensions equally important The economic dimension covers high deal volumes QF1, QP4, QP5\e severity of loss of a customer for a provider \(QF2, QP3, QP7\d increasing competition in the providers market \(QF3 The strategic dimension consists of the client being a reference customer \(QP1, QP2\e potential access to a new market sector within the German three pillar banking system for the provider \(QF1\d the market visibility of the delivered services \(QP6, QP4 These two dimensions of importance mainly influence commitment, which is a relationship quality dimension. Interestingly, six of the seven investigated providers frankly report that they show higher commitment for customers that are regarded to be important whereas only half of the banks perceive an impact of their own importance on provider s commitment. Another dimension of relationship quality that is influenced by importance is forbearance. Here the results are ambiguous. One provider reports a very lenient relationship with its customer because of the high importance of the relationship for both parties Instead, one bank claims to behave less forbearing when the provider regards this customer as highly important  From a theoretical perspective, these results contribute to the specification of contextual variables in the IT outsourcing relationship literature. So far, the comparable contextual variable dependency is formed on a cost basis, based on the supply chain-related works from Anderson and Naru e d on pow er  dependency theory and resource dependency theory we argued that in an IT outsourcing context the relative dependency should be evaluated by means of the importance of the deal to the portfolio of the provider and by means of strategic advantages offered by the client to the provider. In doing so, we turned around the traditional application of the resource dependency theory on outsourcing, where the importance of the provider s resources from the client s perspective is in the line of focus As a managerial implication, we recommend banks who are considering IT outsourcing to choose a provider with a deal por tfolio compatible to the prospective deal size. However, if the client offers the provider a strategic advantage, the client may even choose a provider with a portfolio of relatively large deals and may still expect a good relationship quality If neither substantial economic nor the strategic argument of importance can be found on the customer side, the results suggest that the outsourcing firm has to carefully evaluate the potential relationship and to rely much more on contractual governance than on relational mechanisms. In these cases, expecting a partnership-style relationship may be wishful thinking and be not more than a pious hope. Moreover firms should be aware that this issue could affect their decision to outsource at all, since there might be a too high threat of service debasement due to moral hazard   Our further research will collect more cases in order to better control for this multivariate impact. Moreover we have also started to conduct a quantitative study surveying IT outsourcing relationships in the German banking industry 7. Acknowledgement This work was developed as part of a research project of the E-Finance Lab, Frankfurt am Main Germany \(www.efinancelab.com ndebted to the participating universities and industry partners 8. References 1 G  A huja   C olla bora t i on N e t w ork s Struc t ura l H o le s  a n d  Innovation: A Longitudinal Study", Administrative Science Quarterly, 45\(3\2000, 425-455  2 J  C  A nde r s on a nd J  A  N a r u s   A Mode l of D i s t r i but or  Firm and Manufacturer Firm Working Partnerships", Journal of Marketing, 54\(1\, 1990, 42-58  3 S. A n g  a nd D  Stra ub P r o d u c tio n a nd T r a n s a c tion  Economies and IS Outsourcing: A Study of the U.S. Banking Industry", MIS Quarterly, 22\(4\, 1998, 535-552  4 B  A  A ube rt, M P a try  a nd S  R i v a rd A Fram ew or k f o r Information Technology Outsourcing Risk Management The DATA BASE for Advances in Information Systems 38\(4\, 2005, 9-28  5 B  B a hli a nd S  R i v a rd A Va lida tion of Me a s ure s  Associated with the Risk Factors in Information Technology Outsourcing",  36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-36, Hawaii, USA, 2003    P  Bi sh op  Col l a b o r at i o n and F i rm S i ze S o m e E v i d en ce from the UK defence industry", Applied Economics, 35\(18 2003  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


7 S. Bl um e nbe rg  I T O u ts ourc i ng Re la tions h i p Q u a l i t y  Dimensions and Drivers: Empirical Evidence from the Financial Industry ",  Proceedings of the 14th Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS\, Toronto Canada, 2008  8 S. B l um e nbe rg D  B e im born, a nd W  K nig   Determinants of IT Outsourcing Relationships: A Conceptual Model",  Proceedings of the 41st Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-41 Waikoloa, HI, USA, 2008  9 M  J  C h e on  V. G r ov e r a n d J  T  C  T e ng  T he ore tic a l  perspectives on the outsourcing of information systems Journal of Information Technology, 10\(4\, 1995, 209-219  10 M  G  Colom bo F irm Siz e a nd Co ope ra tio n: T h e  Determinants of Cooperative Agreements in Information Technology Industries", International Journal of the Economics of Business, 2\(1\1995, 3-30  11 J  J  C r o n i n a nd S  A  Tay lor    M e a s ur ing Se r v ice Q u a lit y   A Reexamination and Extension", Journal of Marketing 56\(3\, 1992, 55-68  12 J  J  C r oni n a nd S.A  T a y l or  S ER V P ER F Ve rs us  SERVQUAL: Reconciling Performance-Based and Perception-Minus-Expectations Measurement of Service Quality", Journal of Marketing, 58\(1\ 1994, 125-131  13  F. D a m a npour  O rg a n iz a tiona l S i z e a nd I n n o v a tion   Organization Studies, 13\(3\92, 375-402  14 J. Dibbe r n T   G o le s, R. Hir s c hhe im a nd B. Ja y a tila k a  Information systems outsourcing: A survey and analysis of the literature", The DATA BASE for Advances in Information Systems, 35\004, 6 - 102  15 L  D ub a n d G   P a r  R ig or in inf o rm a tion s y s t em s  positivist case research: current practices, trends, and recommendations", MIS Quarterly, 27\(4\2003, 597-635  1 F  R. D w y er, P  Schu rr, and S. O h  D e velo p i n g Bu y e rSeller Relationships", Journal of Marketing, 51\(2\1987, 1127  17 M.J  Ea rl T he Ris k s o f O u ts ourc i ng IT  Sloa n  Management Review, 37\(3\1996, 26-32  18  P. Ei nD o r a n d E Se g e v   O r ga niz a tiona l c o nte x t a n d  the success of management information systems Management Science, 24\(10\ 1978, 1064-1077  19  P. Ei n-D o r a nd E. Se g e v   O rg a n iz a tiona l Co nte x t a n d  MIS Structure: Some Empirical Evidence", MIS Quarterly 6\(3\, 1982, 55-67  2 R E m erso n  P o w er-Dep en d e n ce Relatio n s  American  Sociological Review, 27\(1\, 1962, 31-41  21 R  J   Fe r g us on M  P a ul in a nd J  B e r g e r on  C ontr a c t ua l  Governance, Relational Governance, and the Performance of Interfirm Service Exchanges: The Influence of BoundarySpanner Closeness", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 33\(2\2005, 217-234  22 T  G o le s, "T he I m pa c t o f the Clie nt-V e n d o r Re la tions hi p  on Information Systems Outsourcing Success", in The Faculty of Bauer College of Business. 2001, University of Houston: Houston  2 T  G o l e s an d W  Ch i n  Rel at i o n a l exch an ge t h eo ry  an d IS outsourcing: developing a scale to measure relationship factors" in: Hirschheim, R., Heinzl, A., and Dibbern, J Eds.\nformation Systems Outsourcing,  Springer, Berlin Heidelberg, New York et al., 2002, 77-109  24 T  G o le s a nd W  W  C h in  I nf or m a tion Sy s t em s Outsourcing Relationship Factors: Detailed Conceptualization and Initial Evidence", The DATA BASE for Advances in Information Systems, 36\(4\2005, 47-67  25 J  G oo, R  K i s hore  a n d H  R  R a o M a n a g ing I T  outsourcing relationships using service level agreements SLAs\A multi-dimensional fit approach",  Americas Conference on Information Systems, New York, 2004  26 J  G oo a n d K  N a m   C ontr a c t a s a Sour c e  of T r us t  Commitment in Succesfull IT Oursourcing Relationships: An Empirical Study",  40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Hawaii, 2007  27  S. G opa la k r is hna n a n d F   D a m a npour T he Im pa c t of Organizational Context on Innovation Adoption in Commercial Banks", IEEE Tran sactions on Engineering Management, 47\(1\, 2000, 14-25  28 V  G r ov e r M.J  C h e on, a n d J  T  C   T e ng  T he E f f e c t of Service Quality and Parntership on the Outsourcing of Information Systems Functions", Journal of Management Information Systems, 12\(4\, 1996, 89-116  29 B. Ja y a tila ka  A  Sc h w a r z  a nd R. Hirsc hhe i m  Determinants of ASP choice: an integrated perspective European Journal of Information Systems, 12\(3\2003, 210224  30 T  Ke rn a n d L  W illc oc k s  E x p loring Inf orm a tion Technology Outsourcing Relationships: Theory and Practice", Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 9\(4 2000, 321-350  31 T  Ke rn a n d L  P  W illc oc k s  E x p loring re la tio nshi ps i n  information technology outsourcing: The interaction approach", European Journal of Information Systems, 11 2002, 3-19  32 W  J. Ke tting e r a nd C  C. L e e   P ra g m a tic P e rspe c tiv e s on  the Measurement of IS Service Quality", MIS Quarterly 21\(2\, 1997, 223-240  33 R. K i s h ore  H  R. Ra o, K  N a m  S. Ra ja g opa la n, a nd A   Chaudhury, "A Relationship Perspective on IT Outsourcing Communications of the ACM, 46\(12\ 2003, 87-92 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


 34 R  K l e p pe r   T he  m a na g e m e nt of pa r t ne r i ng  development in IS outsourcing", Journal of Information Technology, 10\995, 249-258  35 C  K o h  S. A n g  a nd D  W  Stra ub I T O u ts ourc i ng  Success: A Psychological Contract Perspective", Information Systems Research, 15\(4\, 2004  36 M.C  L a c i t y  a nd R. H i rs c hhe im T he In f o rm a tion  Systems Outsourcing Bandwagon", Sloan Management Review, 35\(1\, 1993, 73-86  37 M  C. L a c i t y a nd L  P   W illc oc k s A n em piric a l  investigation of Information Technology Sourcing Practices Lessons from experience", MIS Quarterly, 22\(3\998, 363408  38 J N. L e e a nd Y.-G Kim   E ff e c t of pa rtne rship qua lity  on IS outsourcing success: conceptual framework and empirical validation", Journal of Management Information Systems, 15\(4\, 1999, 29-61  39 J.-N. L ee an d Y.-G Ki m   E x p lo rin g a Cau s al Mo d e l f o r the Understanding of Outsourcing Partnership",  36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-36 Hawaii, USA, 2003  4 J N L ee M  Q Hu y n h  an d R  Hirsch eim   A n  Integrative Model of Trust on IT Outsourcing: Examining a Bilateral Perspective",  3rd International Conference on Outsourcing of Information Services, Heidelberg, Germany 2007  4 J N L ee M  Q Hu y n h  an d R  Hirsch eim   A n  integrative model of trust on IT outsourcing: Examining a bilateral perspecitve", Information Systems Frontiers, 10\(2 2008, 145-163  42 B.L Ma rc olin a n d K.L  Mc L e lla n E ffe c tiv e IT Outsourcing Arrangements",  31th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Hawaii, 1998  43 F. Mc Fa rla n a nd R. N o la n H ow to m a na ge a n IS  outsourcing alliance", Sloan Management Review, 36\(2 1995, 9-23  44  Me jia s  M M She p he rd, D R V o g e l, a n d L   Lazaneo, "Consensus and Perceived Satisfaction Levels: A Cross-Cultural Comparison of GSS and Non-GSS Outcomes within and between the United States and Mexico", Journal of Management Information Systems, 13\(3\1996, 137-161  45 A  P a rasu raman C.P Zei t h a m l   an d L  L  Berr y   A  Conceptual Model of Service Quality and its Implications for Future Research", Journal of Marketing, 49\(4\1985, 41-50  46 A  P a rasu ram a n  V  A  Zeith am l, an d L  L  Berr y   Alternative Scales for Measuring Service Quality: A Comparative Assessment based on psychometric and diagnostic criteria", Journal of Retailing, 70\(3\994, 201230  47 J   P f ef f e r  P o w e r in or g a niza tions  P itm a n Public a t i ons   Marshfield, Mass., 1981  48 J  P f effer an d G  Salan c i k  T h e extern al co n t ro l o f  organizations: a resource dependence perspective, Harper Row, New York, 1978  49 L  F Pitt, R.T W a tson, a n d B.C. Ka v a n M e a s uring IS Service Quality: Concerns for a Complete Canvas", MIS Quarterly, 21\(2\1997, 209-221  50 L  P o pp o a nd T  Ze ng e r   D o Form a l C ontra c t s a nd Relational Governance Function as Substitutes or Complements?", Strategic Management Journal, 23\(8\2002 707-725  51 L  Ra y m ond O rga n iz a tion a l Conte x t a nd I n f o rm a tion  Systems Success: A Contingency Approach", Journal of Management Information Systems, 6\(4\, 1990, 5-20  52 B  H  R e ic h a n d I  B e nba s a t  F a c tors tha t I n f l ue nc e the  Social Dimension of Alignment Between Business and Information Technology Objectives", MIS Quarterly, 24\(1 2000, 81-113  53 A  Sa rg e n t O uts o urc i ng  Re la tions hi p L ite ra ture A n  Examination and Implications for Future Research",  2006 ACM SIGMIS CPR Conference on Computer Personell Research, Claremont, California, USA, 2006  54 R.J   Sc ho nbe rg e r  P urc h a s ing inta ng ible s  J our na l of  Purchasing and Materials Management, 16\(3\ 1980, 25-27  55 A S u s a r i a  B  An i t e s h  a n d A Wh i n s t o n  Understanding the Service Component of Application Service Provision: An Empirical Analysis of Satisfaction with ASP Services", MIS Quarterly, 27\(1\ 2003, 91-123  56 J  T  C  T e ng M.J  C h e on, a nd V. G r ov e r  D e c i s i ons to  Outsource Information Systems Functions: Testing a Strategy-Theoretic Discrepancy Model", Decision Sciences 26\(1\, 1995, 75-103  5 D Ul ri c h an d J B   Barn e y  P ersp ect i v es i n  organizations: resource dependence, efficiency, and population", Academy of Management Review, 9\(3\, 1984 471-481  58 R.T  W a ts on, L  F P i tt, a n d B.C. K a v a n M e a s uring IS Service Quality: Lessons from Two Longitudinal Case Studies", MIS Quarterly, 22\(1\, 1998, 61-79  59 R  K  Y i n, C a s e s t udy r e se a r c h de s i g n a nd m e thods   Sage Publications, Beverly Hills, CA, 2002    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


supported meeting is to develop and test the coherence among the validity claims illustrated in Figure 3. The following subsections critiques the success of the meeting through the theoretical lens of Habermasian inquiry  5.2. Evaluation of claims to objective truth  Participants arrived at the meeting carrying extensive briefing documents that they had received in the mail. The video record showed that the initial expression of personal views was heated. It took some time before most participants were ready for mutual problem solving. Participants then examined the briefing documents in detail as they worked through each row \(criterion Each participant was a senior planning generalist and this part of the meeting provided the occasion for the exercise of technical skill. Through the use of the GroupSystems Topic Commenter tool participants produced ten pages of text on each criterion. This text or ?frozen discourse? includes key issues that were prioritized via a weighted voting procedure [54  Table 4. Evaluation of claims to truth  Criterion Prioritized key issues A:  $Cost  1st  Transport dominates the issue \(44 points 2nd  Little difference ? are options extreme enough? \(27 pts B:  Amenity and landscape values Author?s note: All except 15th  made no explicit mention of options \(233 points 15th  Greater choice, diversity,  variety in Option 1 \(7 points C: Housing choice No explicit mention of options in any of the key issues \(240 points D: Access and transportation 1st  Stuff all difference among options \(40 pts 2nd  Are we wasting money on public transport without major density increases 25 points E: Water quality  1st  Any option has significant sediment impacts \(44 points 7th  Lack of difference among options \(14 pts  Table 4 illustrates the priority and nature of some key issues and the number of votes each received Participants cast a total of 240 votes for each criterion. The issues were expressed in a manner that is exploratory and descriptive \(emergent evaluative. For example, the issue of the extent to which population density must increase to make public transportation sufficiently viable is central to the choice between scenario one \(consolidation scenario three \(expansion year planning exercise that included extensive traffic modeling, the issue was raised as a question rather than as the evaluation of a factual proposition. No explicit mention of any of the scenario options was included in the top 14 key issues about criterion B amenity and landscape about criterion C \(housing choice the remaining three criteria \(cost, access and 


the remaining three criteria \(cost, access and transportation, and water quality information about which scenario option was preferred. The detailed investigation of the briefing documents produced a consensus that studies by technical experts had failed to find significant difference between the scenario options. This constitutes support for the following interpretation Decision Outcome: Under the norms of a cognitive, objectivating attitude towards the facts, the truth? is that all three scenario options are equal  5.3 Evaluation of claims to rightness  At the end of the discourse on a criterion, each participant privately recorded how well each scenario performed against that criterion. This is a more holistic measure than the key issues recorded in Table 4. Participants must interpret technical findings from the perspective of their own norms and values. Each scenario received a rating on a five-point ordinal scale from each voting participant. The aggregated ratings on each scenario were made accessible to each participant. The aggregate preference orderings for scenarios one and three are illustrated in Table 5  Table 5. Evaluation of Claims to Rightness  Performance on Criterion Scenario One Number who choose 0 Scenario Three Number who choose 0 A: $Cost   3     5     6     2     0    0     2     3     6     5 B: Amenity and landscape values 4     7     3     1     1    3     1     3     4     5 C: Housing choice   1     7     3     3     2    5     7     2     1     1 D: Access and transportation 5     7     3     1     0    1     3     2     5     5 E: Coastal water quality 5     1     4     4     2     0     1     2     3     10 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 Modal values are underlined. On criterion C \(housing choice equally. On the remaining four criteria, scenario one performed distinctly better than scenario three Scenario two \(which had been constructed as an amalgam of scenarios one and three between those for scenarios one and three. All three scenarios had been developed through a consultative process over a seven-year period. This coupled with observations from the pre-meeting and meeting phases constitutes support for the following interpretation Decision Outcome: Under the norms of established legitimate inter-personal relationships scenario one is more ?right? for us than scenario two or three  5.4. Evaluation of Claims to Truthfulness  The discourses on truth and rightness were framed by the briefing documents. After the time allocated for these discourses was exhausted participants were encouraged to express more personal judgments 


encouraged to express more personal judgments about the three scenarios. Electronic meeting technology supported electronic discourse on the question ?What is it like to live in Auckland under scenarios 1, 2 and 3?? In Churchman?s inquiring system, participants were being asked to drop their usual role of designer and adopt the role of client [5 The goal was disclosure of speaker?s subjectivity unconstrained by the \(technical model and unrestrained by the interpersonal context The strategy was to get each individual to write a personalized account of what it would be like to live in Auckland 30 years hence under each of options 1 2 and 3, then to read the account of others to identify the most valuable visions. The procedure was a 60minute silent envisioning exercise in which each account is identified only by a code. Anonymity was almost complete  Table 6. Evaluation of claims to truthfulness  Personal preferences Scenario One Scenario Two Scenario Three Number of participants strongly in favor of 14 0 2 Number of participants indifferent to 0  16 0 Number of participants   willing to work against 2  0 14  The video record shows that participants developed their personalized accounts with a silence and intensity reminiscent of students in a final exam Some participants insisted on working on their accounts beyond the time allocated. Their selfabsorbed silence contrasted strongly with the shouted social consensus that accompanied the reading of the account of others. The most valued visions of what it would be like to live in Auckland 30 years hence showed intense personal support for scenario one, a lack of engagement with scenario two, and a willingness to work against scenario three. \(Table 6  Decision Outcome: Under the norms of disclosure of speakers? subjectivity, 14 of the 16 participants will, in all truthfulness, only support Option 1  5.5. Summary  The positive results obtained from the meeting are in strong contrast to the confusion and conflict that existed at the end of the pre-meeting phase Participants? perceptions and performance as a result of the electronic meeting technology were positive Participants were satisfied. These findings are similar to those in the meta-analysis reported in [28]. While some participants were reluctant to attend the focal meeting, and expressed negative views at the beginning of the meeting, all participants provided positive evaluations at the end of the meeting. The functionality of the GSS software was supportive of an overall positive result. Participation by all participants was intense. By the end of the meeting electronic discourse produced 80 pages of text 


electronic discourse produced 80 pages of text Intense participation in four key aspects of electronic discourse resulted in each of the three decision outcomes being documented and coherently linked to the relevant underlying validity claim. The data gathered during the focal meeting support the claim that the combination of Habermasian inquiry and electronic discourse were successful in reducing conflict and confusion The empirical evidence is that each of the knowledge perspectives \(technical, interpersonal and personal capturing phenomena important to the success of the focal electronically-supported meeting. The focal electronically-supported meeting enabled a critical examination of claims to valid technical interpersonal and personal knowledge. Observations confirm that the decision outcome in each knowledge world was grounded in the corresponding validity claim - truth, rightness or truthfulness. It is not clear however, that the electronically-supported meeting integrated the technical, inter-personal, and personal perspectives into a consensus model that provides the rationale for action  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 6. After the meeting  A ?valid? and ?coherent? evaluation of the three scenario plans is desired. The meeting succeeded in documenting technical, interpersonal and personal decision outcomes and grounded in the relevant underlying validity claim. We have yet to consider the degree of coherence among the three perspectives. Participants found no difference between the scenarios on the basis of technical knowledge. Moderate claims in favor of scenario one were made based on interpersonal knowledge. Strong claims in favor of scenario one were made based on personal knowledge The degree of coherence among the decision outcomes at different levels is poor. There is a major discrepancy in preferences at various stages of the decision process. The 80-page report generated by electronic meeting technology \(from which the data in tables 4, 5 and 6 are extracted participants immediately after the meeting. The introductory section of the report highlighted the fact that the participants were strongly supportive of an option that lacked factual support. The report became subject to intense scrutiny. Regional planners met repeatedly among themselves about the report and consulted other meeting participants. Support grew for the interpretation that the information in Table 4 should be taken at face value ? scenario options were not extreme enough. In Hegelian terms, the dialectical logic \(synthesis initially lost on the regional planners because they were so firmly wedded to their decision framework thesis recognizing that the framework itself was flawed antithesis subsequently undertaken with more extreme variations on scenarios one and three \(based on a 100% increase in population for scenario one at technical, interpersonal and personal levels  6.1. Discussion  Support has been found that framing the 


Support has been found that framing the electronic discourses as an instance Habermasian inquiry reduces participants? conflict and confusion about a comprehensive urban plan and preferences for three scenario options. The meeting enabled bounds to rationality to be loosened by active testing of each participant?s knowledge against other points of view. Intense scrutiny of the meeting report produced a significant increase in the coherence of the belief structure of meeting participants Specifically, the apparent contradictions in preferences surfaced at different stages of the meeting served as a precursor to a Hegelian synthesis. Participants? insight that the model was flawed led to a consensus model that provided decision makers with a rationale for action. Using the definition of success in Churchman?s inquiring system \(?insight leading to a consensus model that provides decision makers with a rationale for action  6.2. Conclusion  The paper applies Habermasian inquiry to electronic discourse in group decision, and the strategic evaluation of a comprehensive urban plan In this case at least, the combination of Habermasian inquiry and electronic discourse led to the overall success of a key meeting. The learning process did not produce a coherent decision based on the initial parameters in the planning model, but an appreciation of the gap between the model and the purpose for which it had been developed. After the meeting consensus developed around a new urban planning model synthesized from suggestions by meeting participants. Ten years after the electronicallysupported meeting, the essence of the decision in favor of scenario one remains the accepted plan for the future of the Auckland region In totality, the empirical evidence suggests that the combination of Habermasian inquiry and electronic discourses enhance participant?s trust and understanding in scenario planning. Seen as an instance of Habermasian inquiry, the benefits of the electronically-supported meeting were three-fold Technical perspective. Support for the development and documentation of validity claims about objective truth, rightness and personal truthfulness or sincerity, and the degree of coherence among them Interpersonal perspective. Support for discourse that interweaves evidence \(reflections and experiences, decisions and actions, theories and interpretations, individual feelings and objective facts supportive evaluative frames Personal perspective. Support for the psychological safety? and ?trust? needed for direct and unreserved expressions of multiple, conflicting individual perspectives This retrospective inquiry was initially born out of a personal concern that the subjectivist story-telling aspects of the design of the GSS session could not be justified, and that harm may result. This appears not to be the case. Retrospective inquiry has enabled this GSS facilitator to find that his intuitions about Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 session design are shared by others. Several lessons have been learned. Firstly, in theory and in practice creativity and conflict are intertwined. An element of self expression via story-telling may get us closer to 


the truth than available empirical data. Secondly, in practice, individual and group knowledge is mediated and situated, provisional and pragmatic, aspirational and contested. In this case at least, a broad but robust theory of electronic discourse proved useful in teasing out intertwined technical, interpersonal and personal issues. Thirdly, GSS technology has a raw power that the facilitator may direct via the application of this theory. The author has found the architecture of Habermasian discourses a useful archetype for mid-range operational models in various domains. Finally, the methodology of a critical interpretive case study is recommended for critiquing the support provided by collaborative technologies in situations involving dissensus. Such an approach is required to study why participants are inauthentic in their participation in collaboration technologies, or avoid them completely as communication closes down in response to unresolved conflict. The application of ideas about pragmatism and systemic intervention provides a practice model that extends the practical and decisionistic applications of critical research in information systems, and places positivist technology-based theories of collaborative design in the context of power relations In practice, interaction on problematic issues is subject to confusion and conflict. However these are the experiences required to disambiguate a mess of facts, norms and feelings. Seen from a Hegelian perspective, the power of a design theory for collaborative technologies based on Habermasian discourses, lies not in achievement of enlightenment but in appreciation of the nature of ignorance, and the practical consequences of belief  7. References  1] Metcalfe, M. ?Pragmatic Inquiry,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 59, 2008, 1091-1099 2] Omerod, R. ?The History and Ideas of Pragmatism Journal of the Operational Research Society 57, 2006, 892909 3] Boyd, A., Geerling, T., Gregory, W.J., Kagan, C Midgley, G., Murray, P., Walsh, M.P  Systemic Evaluation: A Participative, Multi-Method Approach   Journal of the Operational Research Society 58, 2007 1306-1320 4] Midgley, G. Systemic Intervention: Philosophy Methodology, and Practice, Kluwer Academic / Plenum New York, 2000 5] Churchman, C.W. The Design of Inquiring Systems Basic Books, New York, 1971 6] Rosenhead, J., and Mingers, J., Editors  Rational Analysis For a Problematic World Revisited  John Wiley and Sons, Ltd, Chichester, 2001 7] Jackson, MC. ?Systems Thinking: Creative Holism For Managers.? John Wiley and Sons, Ltd, Chichester, 2003 8] Midgley, G., Editor. ?Systems Thinking?, Sage, London 2003 9] Ulrich, W  Philosophy For Professionals: Towards Critical Pragmatism  Viewpoint, Journal of the Operational Research Society 58, 2007, 1109-1113 10] Schultze, U., Leidner, D.E. ?Studying Knowledge Management in Information Systems Research: Discourses and Theoretical Assumptions,? MIS Quarterly 26\(3 213-242 11] Habermas, J. The Theory of Communicative Action Volume 1: Reason and the Rationalization of Society translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 


translated by Thomas McCarthy, Beacon Press, Boston 1984 12] Markus, M.L., Majchrzak, A., Gasser, L  A Design Theory For Systems That Support Emergent Knowledge Processes  MIS Quarterly, 26\(3 13] Walls, J., Widmeyer, G. R., El Sawy, O. A  Building an Information System Design Theory for Vigilant EIS   Information Systems Research 3\(1 14] Briggs, R., Nunamaker, J., Spraugue, R  Introduction to the Special Issue: Information Systems Design  Theory and Methodology  Journal of Information Systems, Spring 2004, 5-8 15] Royal Commission on Auckland Governance http://www.royalcommission.govt.nz 16] New Zealand Council for Infrastructure Development Strengthening Auckland Governance. 2008 17] Ackermann, F., Franco, L.A., Gallupe, B., Parent, M  GSS for Multi-Organizational Collaboration: Reflections on Process and Content  Group Decision and Negotiation 14, 2005, 307-331 18] Franco, L.A  Facilitating Collaboration with Problem Structuring Methods: A Case Study of an InterOrganisational Construction Partnership  Group Decision and Negotiation 17, 2008, 267-286 19] Lewis, F.L., Bajwa, D.S., Pervan, G., King, V.L.K Munkvold, B.E  A Cross-Regional Exploration of Barriers to the Adoption and Use of Electronic Meeting Systems   Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 381-398 20] Kolfschoten, G.L., Den Hengst-Bruggeling, M., De Vreede, G.J  Issues in the Design of Facilitated Collaboration Processes  Group Decision and Negotiation 16, 2007, 347-361 21] Guo, Z., Sheffield J  A Paradigmatic and Methodological Examination of Knowledge Management Research: 2000-2004  Decision Support Systems 44, 2008 673-688 22] Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., Ram, S. Design Science in Information Systems Research. MIS Quarterly 28\(1 23] Boland, R. "The Process and Product of System Design," Management Science 28\(9 24] Lee, A.S. "Electronic Mail as a Medium for Rich Communication: An Empirical Investigation Using Hermeneutic Interpretation," MIS Quarterly 18\(2 143-157 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 25] Klein, H.K. and Myers, M.D. "A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, 23\(1 26] Trauth, E.M., and Jessup, L.M. "Understanding Computer-Mediated Discussions: Positivist and Interpretive Analyses of Group Support System Use," MIS Quarterly 24\(1 27] Walsham, G. "The Emergence of Interpretivism in IS Research," Information Systems Research 6\(4 394 28] Sheffield, J  The Design of GSS-Enabled Interventions: A Habermasian Perspective  Group Decision and Negotiation 13\(5 29] Sheffield, J., Guo, Z  Ethical Inquiry in Knowledge Management  International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies 1\(1  81 30] Cecez-Kecmanovic, D. "Basic Assumptions of the Critical Research Perspectives in Information Systems," in Handbook of Critical Information Systems Research Theory and Application, D. Howcroft and E. Trauth \(eds Edward Elgar, Aldershot, 2005, 19-46 31] Lyytinen, K., and Hirschheim, R. "Information Systems as a Rational Discourse: An Application of Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action 


Habermas' Theory of Communicative Action Scandinavian Journal of Management Studies 4\(1-2 19-30 32] Lyytinen, K., Klein, H.K  The Critical Theory of Jurgen Habermas as a Basis for a Theory of Information Systems  in Mumford, E., R.A. Hirschheim, G. Fitzgerald and T. Wood-Harper \(Editors Information Systems, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1985 33] Marshall, N, Brady, T  Knowledge Management and the Politics of Knowledge: Illustrations from Complex Products and Systems  European Journal of Information Systems 10\(2 34] Mingers, J  Combining IS Research Methods Towards a Pluralist Methodology  Information Systems Research 12\(3 35] Ngwenyama, O.K. and Lee, A.S. "Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning," MIS Quarterly 21\(2 145-167 36] Ulrich, W.A  Philosophical Staircase for Information Systems Definition, Design, and Development: A Discursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 1  Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application 3\(3 37] Ulrich, W  Critically Systemic Discourse: A Disursive Approach to Reflective Practice in ISD \(Part 2   Journal of Information Technology Theory and Application, 3\(3 38] Forester J, Critical Theory, Public Policy, and Planning Practice: Toward a Critical Pragmatism, State University of New York Press, Albany, 1993 39] Forester J. "Learning From Practice Stories: The Priority of Practical Judgment," in The Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning Eds F. Fischer, J. Forester Duke University Press, Durham, NC  209 40] Innes, J.E. ?Planning Through Consensus Building Journal of the American Planning Association 62\(4 460-472 41] Healey, P. Collaborative Planning: Shaping Places in Fragmented Societies, Palgrave New York, 1997 42] Outhwaite, W. The Habermas Reader, Polity Press Cambridge, UK, 1996 43] Shakun, Melvin F. ?Right Problem Solving: Doing the Right Thing Right,? Group Decision and Negotiation 12 6 44] Mitroff, I.I., and Linstone, H.A. The Unbounded Mind Breaking the Chains of Traditional Business Thinking Oxford University Press, New York, 1993 45] Millet, I., and Gogan, J. ?A Dialectical Framework for Problem Structuring and Information Technology,? Journal of the Operational Research Society, 57, 2005, 434-442 46] Fjermestad, J., and Hiltz, S.R. ?Group Support Systems: A Descriptive Evaluation of Case and Field Studies,? Journal of Management Information Systems 17\(3 47] Shaw, D., Ackermann, F., Eden. C. ?Approaches to Sharing Knowledge in Group Problem Structuring   Journal of the Operational Research Society 54\(9 936-948 48] De Reuk, J  General Decision Assurance Principles and Procedures for Strategic Planning  International Journal of Management &amp; Decision Making 3\(2 139-150 49] Grinyer, P. ?A Cognitive Approach to Group Strategic Decision Taking: A Discussion of Evolved Practice in the Light of Received Research Results,? Journal of the Operational Research Society 51\(1 50] Ngwenyama, O. ?The Critical Social Theory Approach to Information Systems: Problems and Challenges,? In Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in 


Myers, M.D., Avison, D., Editors, Qualitative Research in Information Systems, Sage, London, 2002 51] Auckland Regional Council. Auckland Strategic Planning Model \(ASP2 Auckland, 1997 52] Dias, L., and Climaco, J  Dealing With Imprecise Information in Group Multi-Criteria Decisions: A Methodology and a GDSS Architecture  European Journal of Operational Research 160\(2 53] Sheffield, J., Gallupe, B. ?Using Group Support Systems to Improve the New Zealand Economy, Part II Follow-Up Results,? Journal of Management Information Systems 11\(3 54] Van de Ven, A.H., Delbecq, A. L  The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes  Academy of Management Journal 17 1971, 605-621 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 pre></body></html 


reliability analysis requires the capability to simultaneously process multiple failure behaviors with very different qualitative and quantitative properties. The term qualitative refers to the fault types, such as benign, symmetric asymmetric, or the transmissive and omissive Unfortunately, traditional reliability analysis cannot handle the above requirements. To achieve the flexibilities and capabilities to simultaneously quantify several types of failure behaviors required by hybrid fault models, and still to be capable of incorporating complex time-dependent failure rate represented with survival analysis models, Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a game theory model to integrate dynamic hybrid fault models and reliability models \(represented with survival functions  Box 4.1 and 4.2 briefly describe the concepts involved in two aspects of dynamic hybrid fault \(DHF Detailed contents are referred to Ma &amp; Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a 11                                                     


                                                Box 4.1. Agreement Algorithm Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Time and Covariate Dependent Hazard Function Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a the first aspect \(i.e., the lack of real time notion, or the agreement-algorithm side of the problem introduction of survival analysis. Specifically, time and covariate dependent survivor functions or hazard functions are utilized. In the following, I use the oral message version of the Byzantine general problem Lamport 1982 extension. The constraint of Byzantine general problem under oral message assumption \(Table 1 be replaced with the following model in the dynamic version 1 3 tmtN Further assuming that the survivor function of generals is S\(t|z    ztStNtN    ztStmtm m where N\(t t treacherous generals \(traitors S\(t|z t|z survivor functions for the total number of generals and 


survivor functions for the total number of generals and traitors, respectively.  z is the vector of covariates, and the conditional survivor functions can adopt parametric or semi-parametric covariate models such as Cox models. Obviously, the hybrid models now are not only time-dependent, but also covariate dependent.  The covariates can be any factors that affect the failures of generals. The above scheme conveniently transforms traditional hybrid fault models and their corresponding mathematical constraints for reaching agreement, into time and covariate dependent  The above models use Byzantine general problem with oral messages as an example, and the other constraints to reach agreement in hybrid fault models can be extended in the same manner.  In addition, the above models adopted discrete form, or difference equations Continuous model or differential equation can be adopted. Models similar to population dynamics can be utilized \(Ma and Bechinski 2008 field that studies the change of population numbers from generation to generation. The concept of population usually refers to animal, plant or human population Hallam &amp; Levin. 1986, Kingsland 1995, Kot 2001 Lande &amp; Engen, 2003 mathematical models such as expressed with survival analysis, populations of animals, Byzantine generals, or wireless sensor nodes, are essentially the same Therefore, the models in population dynamics theory can be used to replace above models to represent more complex systems. The population dynamics approach is particular convenient for the utilization of evolutionary game modeling, which is necessary for addressing the second aspect of the dynamic hybrid fault models Box 4.2. Reliability Aspect of Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models: Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games The solution to the first aspect \(Box 4.1 not sufficient to apply the DHF models to reliability or survivability analysis.  Ma and Krings \(2008e, Ma 2008a introduced evolutionary game theory \(EGT the second aspect of the problem  reliability aspect of dynamic hybrid fault models. With the Byzantine general problem as an example and they term the approach Byzantine Generals Playing Evolutionary Games  Basic Concepts in EGT  In EGT, game players are population individuals, game payoffs are the fitness of individuals, and strategies are evolved dynamically.  Similar to the Nash equilibrium in traditional game theory evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS both internal mutation and external perturbation.  The ESS can be mapped to the sustainable or survivable strategies. When mapping to the Byzantine general problem, players are the generals, and fitness or payoff of a game is mapped to reliability \(survivability sub-population of players, which can be represented with the hazard function or survival function introduced in the previous section.  The sub-populations can refer to groups of generals \(such as loyal general group or treacherous general group behaviors of generals, such as malicious vs. benign symmetric vs. asymmetric  Basic Mathematical Models for EGT  In literature mathematical models for evolutionary games can be as simple as simple algebraic equations or as complex as differential equation systems. For example, the so termed replicator dynamics model is actually the adaptation of population dynamics modeling for describing evolutionary games. Replicator dynamics describes evolution of the frequencies of strategies in a population. In evolutionary 


game theory, replicator dynamics is described with differential equations. For example, if a population consists of n types nEEE ,...,, 21 with frequencies 21 nxxx . The fitness xfi of iE will be a function of the population structure, or the vector 21 nxxxx Following the basic tenet of Darwinism, one may define the success as the difference between the fitness xfi of iE  and the average fitness   xfxxf ii of the population. The simplest replicator model can be defined as   xfxfxdtdx iii for .,...,2,1 ni =  The population nStx ?   where nS is a simplex, which is the space for population composition, is similar to mixed strategies in traditional games \(Hofbauer amp; Sigmund 1998, Vincent &amp; Brown 2005, Nowak 2006  12                                                  Box 4.3 included some additional comments on DHF models. The following is a summary for the potential benefits of introducing DHF models to reliability and PHM  i 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


