Multiwavelets for Quantitative Pattern Matching Bruce Kessler Western Kentucky University bruce.kessler@wku.edu  Abstract The purpose of this paper is to provide an introduction to the concepts of wavelets and multiwavelets and explain how these tools can be used by the analyst community to nd patterns in quantitative data Three multiwavelet bases are introduced the GHM basis from 3  a p ie c e wis e p ol y nomial basis with approximation order 4 from  
and a smoother approximation-order-4 basis developed by the author in previous work   T h e t e ch nique of using multiwavelets to nd patterns is illustrated in a tra c-analysis example 1 Introduction The concept of wavelets and wavelet analysis is a relatively new idea in the science of analysis which has been dominated over the last 200 years by Fourier analysis Even newer is the concept of multiwavelets which have greater exibility for handling boundaries symmetries and anti-symmetries 
The purpose of this paper is to provide the network security community an overview of the concept and some of the bases that are available for their use 1.1 Multiresolution Analyses A function that satis es the dilation equation   2 X Z 2 1 for some sequence of coe cients is said to be 
renable Asimpleexampleofare nable function would be the characteristic function over 0 1 0 1   1for0 1 0 otherwise 2 shown in Figure 1 since for  0 1    2 1 2 
2  1 2 2 1  Are nable function that has the property that the set    Z  is a linearly independent set is called a scaling function  A scaling function where the dilation equation 1 is satis ed by a nite sequence and Z R 
      1for 0 0for Z 6 0 is called an orthogonal scaling function The function  0 1 de ned in 2 along with its integer translates is called the Haar basis  and is an orthogonal scaling function due to its very short support Figure 1 The orthogonal scaling function 
 0 1  A multiresolution analysis MRA of squareintegrable functions de ned on R typically denoted 2  R  is a set of linear spaces   that satisfy the following criteria  2 1 0 1 2   
S Z  2  R  T Z   0   0 i 2   for Z and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 
 


there exists a function whose integer translates form a basis minimal spanning set for the space 0  Based on these criteria scaling functions can clearly be used to generate MRA s The orthogonal complement of 0 in 1 is typically denoted 0 and a function whose integer translates form a basis for this space are called wavelets  The wavelet associated with the Haar basis is shown in Figure 2 Figure 2 The wavelet associated with the Haar basis If we de ne similar spaces as the orthogonal complement in 1 in for all integer  called wavelet spaces  then we may decompose a function in 0 into increasingly smoother approximations and keep the error in the wavelet spaces An simple example of this process is shown in Figures 3 through 6 using the Haar basis Figure 3 A signal in the space 0 generated by integer translates of the Haar basis Since 1  by necessity will satisfy a dilation equation of its own    2 X Z 2  for some sequence of coe cients  For example the Haar wavelet illustrated in Figure 2 satis es the equation Figure 4 A best approximation in 1 of the signal in Figure 3 at top and the error in 1 at bottom Figure 5 A best approximation in 2 of the signal in Figure 4 at top and the error in 2 at bottom Figure 6 A best approximation in 3 of the signal in Figure 5 at top and the error in 3 at bottom Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


   2 1 2 2  1 2 2 1  In the case where the MRA is generated by an orthogonal scaling vector the coe cients and can be used to construct perfect-reconstruction lters for decomposing and reconstructing the original function in 0  The approximation order of a scaling function refers to the highest degree polynomials that when limited to a nite interval are present in the space 0 generated by the scaling function A scaling function of approximation order is able to reproduce degree 1 polynomials exactly For example the scaling function  0 1 generates a space that contains degree zero constant functions over a nite interval     integers so we say that has approximation order 1 The approximation order of a scaling function will be an important deciding factor when we start to consider bases for applications 1.2 Wavelets vs Fourier Analysis The fast Fourier transform FFT is a marvelous tool for isolating the frequencies in a discrete uniformly-sampled signal but it has its limitations The FFT is a computationally e cient method of calculating the coe cients and  0  1 needed to represent a sampled signal   1 0 as the sum  1 X 0 cos 2   sin 2  for each 0  1 Typically one looks at the moduli of the various complex numbers   called the power spectrum  for an indication that the signal has a component that oscillates times over the length of the signal A modulus of zero means that that frequency is not present in the signal while a larger modulus means that more of that frequency is present in the signal This is particularly useful when analyzing sound signals especially if trying to sort and denoise certain frequencies out of the signal The FFT provides no information about where the frequencies occur in the signal just how much is present For example the two data sets shown in Figure 7 will have di erent Fourier transforms but with the exact same power spectrum shown in Figure 8 To combat this shortcoming a windowed Fourier transform is used but this in turn limits the frequencies that can be measured Also if the same data is added to a set of linear data both the Fourier transform and its power spectrum will be radically di erent as shown in Figure 9 Figure 7 Two di erent but similar data sets Figure 8 The power spectrum for both of the data sets in Figure 3 With wavelet analysis the two data sets shown in Figure 7 will have completely di erent wavelet decompositions with larger magnitude coe cients in the location of the bump  However with the use of the correct basis namely a basis with approximation order 2 or above the top set of data in Figure 7 and the data shown at the top of Figure 9 will have exactly the same wavelet decomposition This property can be useful when trying to analyze data overlaid upon other background data 1.3 Wavelets vs Multiwavelets The concept of a scaling function can be generalized to a vector of functions called a scaling Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


vector  A scaling vector  1   satis es a dilation equation of its own    2 X Z 2 3 for some sequence of  matrices and the entire set     1    Z  4 is a linearly independent set Scaling vectors are said to be orthogonal if the sequence of matrices is nite and the components of satisfy Z R      1when   0 0 otherwise Figure 9 The same data set with added linear data and its power spectrum Scaling vectors still establish MRA s with the set given in 4 as the basis for 0 Withinthis structure there will exist a vector of functions  1   that span the orthogonal complement of 0 in 1  denoted 0  that will necessary satisfy its own dilation equation   2 X Z 2 5 for some nite sequence of  matrices Asbefore when using an orthogonal scaling vector the matrix coe cients can be used to construct perfectreconstruction lters for the decomposition and reconstruction of the signal in 0  There are several advantages to using multiwavelets for analysis over single wavelets The Haar scaling function de ned in 2 and shown in Figure 1 is the only single scaling function to have any symmetry/anti-symmetry properties However as we shall see in the next section we may build scaling vectors such that each function in the vector has symmetry/anti-symmetry properties Also each single scaling function must necessarily satisfy the condition that Z R   6 0 This is not true for all of the functions in a scaling vector but for only one of the functions The antisymmetric members of the scaling vector would not satisfy this criteria for example so not all of the scaling vector functions could be anti-symmetric And lastly for the class of scaling vectors that we will illustrate in this paper it is very easy to build boundary functions and still maintain orthogonality With the exception of the Haar basis if you truncate a single scaling function supported on    to a shorter integer-length interval the function will no longer maintain its orthogonality to other truncated functions The scaling vectors shown in Section 2 all of which are supported over an interval no larger than  1 1  h a v e the pr op e r t y t h at t h e y a r e orthogonal or in the last basis shown can be made orthogonal with a simple procedure when restricted both to the interval  1 0 an d  0 1  m e a nin g tha t the functions when truncated at 0andnormalized are still part of an orthogonal basis set on a bounded region Multiwavelets do have one disadvantage over the single wavelet constructions the lters can not generally be applied directly to the raw data without losing approximation order Much work has been done in creating balanced scaling vectors that can be applied directly to data See 1   7   a n d  8  f o r mo re details In order to maintain the polynomial order of the data one has to rst convert the raw data to basis coe cients in the 0 space called pre ltering  and if reconstructing the data convert the basis coe cients back into data called post ltering Ideally a pre lter will preserve the 2 norm of the data called an  pre lter as well as preserve the polynomial order of the data but orthogonal pre lters that preserve approximation order of the basis are sometimes hard to nd They also have issues on bounded regions See  f o r a n e xcel l e n t introduction to pre ltering Luckily an orthogonal pre lter is more necessary in image compresProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


sion applications than in pattern recognition We are able to use a relatively simple non-orthogonal pre lter called a quasi-interpolation pre lter that maps the data to basis coe cients in 0 so that the combination of basis functions interpolates data sampled from polynomials up to the approximation order of the basis and comes close to interpolating non-polynomial data 2 Useful Bases There are a number of orthogonal multiwavelet bases that have been developed See 9 a n d  1 0  for some other examples As previously mentioned the ones presented here have the advantage of being easily applied to bounded data but they also have another advantage The following bases all generate spaces that contain spline spaces  that is piecewise polynomial spaces over integer knots that meet certain match-up conditions at the integers We use the notation S  Z  to indicate the spline space of polynomials of degree that have equal th derivatives at integer knots where the 0 th derivative is understood to be the function value Thus while we will refer to the approximation order of the following bases it it important to realize that the 0 space generated by the bases will also contain piecewise polynomials of degree 1 that are either continuous at integer values or in the case of the last basis have one derivative at integer values 2.1 GHM Basis The GHM basis rstappearedin[3  a n d w a s r e constructed from a macroelement perspective in 4  and are illustrated in Figure 10 This scaling vector  1 2  has approximation order 2 but the 0 space that it generates also includes the spline space S 0 1  Z  1 2 Figure 10 The GHM scaling vector The scaling vector satis es equation 3 with the following matrix coe cients 2  0 1  20 00  1  3 2 20 9 20 00  0   2 2 9 20 0 3 2 10  1   3 2 20 1 20 4 5 3 2 10  The function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop pre lters are 1  1  1 1  2 0  2 1  0 1 1 2   1 1 2   3 3 10 and 2 1 2   4 6 5 Orthonormal basis elements for the left and right boundaries of a data set are constructed by keeping the right and left half of 1  respectively and normalizing that is 1  2 1 0 1 and 1  2 1  1 0 respectively Their decomposition lters re ect this normalization in all but the entries corresponding to dilated versions of these functions The multiwavelet  1 2  associated with the GHM scaling vector is illustrated in Figure 11 and satis es the equation 5 with the following matrix coe cients 2  0 1 20 0 2 20  1   3 2 20 9 20 3 10 9 2 20  0   2 2 9 20 0 9 2 20  1   3 2 20 1 20 3 10 2 20  Only truncated and normalized versions of the symmetric 1 are needed at the boundaries 1  2 1 0 1 and 1  2 1  1 0 on the left and right respectively 1 2 Figure 11 The GHM multiwavelet Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


2.2 Approximation-Order-4 Basis The groundwork for this basis was laid in although the scaling vector was not explicitly constructed in that paper The scaling vector   1 2 3 4  is illustrated in Figure 12 and has approximation order 4 The 0 spacethatitgenerates also includes the spline space S 0 3  Z  In fact one may notice that 2 and 3 are quadratic and cubic polynomials respectively restricted to 0 1 and normalized 1 2 3 4 Figure 12 An approximation-order-4 scaling vector The scaling vector satis es the dilation equation 3 just as with the previous GHM scaling vector However the four 4  4 matrix coe cients are too large to provide here and are available instead from the author swebsite www.wku.edu bruce.kessler as are the function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop pre lters As before orthonormal basis elements for the left and right boundaries of a data set are constructed by keeping the right and left half of 1  respectively and normalizing that is 1   2 1 0 1 and 1  2 1  1 0 respectively Their decomposition lters re ect this normalization in all but the entries corresponding to dilated versions of these functions The multiwavelet  1 2 3 4  associated with this scaling vector is illustrated in Figure 13 with the matrix solutions to the dilation equation 5 also available on the author swebsite Again only truncated and normalized versions of the symmetric 1 are needed at the boundaries 1  2 1 0 1 and 1  2 1  1 0 on the left and right respectively 1 2 3 4 Figure 13 The multiwavelet associated with the scaling vector in Section 2.2 2.3 Di erentiable Basis with Approximation Order 4 Each of the bases shown in the previous sections include a continuous spline space but the 0 space in each case also contains much more than that With each basis 0 will also contain functions that look like the left and right halves of the 1 function in that particular scaling vector Hence each approximation space even at the lowest resolution will contain functions that have at least one nondi erentiable corner  This may not be desirable Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


especially if the points of interest in the original signal happen to fall on these corners at every resolution for example at the midpoint of the data set In this and many other cases a di erentiable basis i.e has no corners would be more useful A scaling vector was developed by the author in  t h a t h a s a p p r o xim atio n o r d er 4 a n d g en era t es a space that contains the spline space S 1 3  Z  that is the space of piecewise cubic polynomials that are both continuous and di erentiable at the integer knots This scaling vector  1 2 3 4  is illustrated in Figure 14 As with the basis discussed in Section 2.2 the matrix coe cients that satisfy the dilation equation 3 for are available on the author s website as are the function values needed to interpolate data or otherwise develop prelters Leftand right-hand versions of both 1 and 2 can be created to handle bounded data 1 2 3 4 Figure 14 A di erentiable approximation-order-4 scaling vector The multiwavelet  1 2 3 4  associated with this scaling vector is illustrated in Figure 15 with the matrix solutions to the dilation equation 5 also available on the author swebsite The website also contains the matrices needed for lter construction of the left and right boundary wavelets 1 2 3 4 Figure 15 The multiwavelet associated with the scaling vector in Section 2.3 3 Pattern Matching The premise behind using wavelets for pattern matching is that the wavelet decomposition for the pattern for which you are searching and for the pattern added to data sampled from a polynomial of degree less than the approximation order of your scaling vector will be equal For example the wavelet decompositions for both data sets shown in Figure 16 will be identical when using either of the bases discussed in Sections 2.2 and 2.3 It is necessary that the pattern not be in the lowest-resolution approximation space so that it will not have a wavelet decomposition with only 0 coe cients This problem is rare but if it occurs it is remedied by either continuing the decomposition to an even lowerresolution space or by using a di erent scaling vector of lower approximation order In most cases the pattern will not be overlaid upon perfectly polynomial data and so the wavelet decompositions will not match exactly However if the pattern is prominent enough in the signal so that the root mean square error   fthe new decomposition   when compared to the decomposition   of the original pattern as de ned Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


by   v u u u u t  X 1   2 is su ciently small then the pattern will still be detected Figure 16 Pattern data top and the same data obscured by cubic polynomial data bottom When using a single scaling function and wavelet are used in applications each successively smoother approximation of the data stretches the support of the basis functions e ectively drawing more data from outside the region where the pattern actually occurs By using the scaling vectors and multiwavelets mentioned in Section 2 we are able to analyze data on a bounded region and ignore data outside of that region 3.1 When to Use Wavelets Wavelet decompositions can be used to nd patterns in any type of data but there are no advantages to using them for exact pattern matching For example if searching for the word the in a text leorinpacketdata,wehavetosearchfortheexact ASCII values 116 104 and 101 in succession Changing those values even by a constant amount changes the word Also to apply the wavelet bases mentioned in Section 2 we need 2 1 data values for some integer 1 for the DGM and the approximation-order-4 basis and 2 2 data values for some integer 1 for the basis in Section 2.3 so we would have to pad the target pattern with spaces This type of search can be conducted much more e ciently using other search methods such as Bloom lters etc However for quantitative data like packet tra c dependent upon time multiwavelets have the potential to spot patterns that are not immediately noticable to the human eye such as in the bottom graph of Figure 16 The following section gives an example of how multiwavelets can be used to detect a low and slow pattern caused by data ex ltration 3.2 Tra c Analysis Example Suppose that we have a corrupted computer and we are aware through previous experience that this particular piece of malevolent code tends to sneak data out under the TCP protocol in the following pattern a single packet of size 256 bytes followed approximately 1 second later by another packet of size 512 bytes one second later four packets of size 256 bytes are sent with a quarter second gap between the packets and one quarter-second later three packets of size 512 bytes are sent followed one-quarter second later by one packet of size 256 bytes The accumulated bytes sent with respect to time in seconds are shown in Figure 17 Total Bytes Seconds Figure 17 Accumulated bytes for the example pattern The packets described above have been inserted into a set of network tra c packet collected from the author s laptop over roughly 4 minutes of usage starting at  240 seconds The total accumulated outgoing bytes are illustrated in Figure 18 To apply the basis looking for this speci c pattern we Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


accumulate the bytes on quarter-second intervals and generate a wavelet decomposition for a sliding 4-second window which is compared to the original pattern s decomposition with the  The  for the di erent starting times are shown in Figure 19 Note the low value of the  at  240 seconds indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time Total Bytes Seconds Figure 18 Accumulated outgoing bytes of a sample usage period plus the packets in our pattern  Seconds Figure 19  values less than 50 for blocks of data with di erent starting times Notethelowvalueofthe  at 240 seconds indicating a close match to our target pattern at that time In fairness this method of nding patterns has many of the same weaknesses found in other signature-matching approaches The pattern has to be known ahead of time which means that this detection scheme would still be vulnerable to rst-time attacks Also a completely innocuous data ow occurring with very similiar timing and quantities as our pattern will still cause a low  value possibly causing a false-positive alert We do claim however that we have a greater capacity for nding patterns in quanti able amounts that are obscured by standard network tra c Also we can adjust the sensitivity of the search without changing the signature for which we are searching by adjusting the threshold of the  s for which an alert is issued Thus statistical techniques and adaptive learning can be used to help develop optimal threshold levels for a particular pattern 4 Conclusion Wavelet analysis holds an as-of-yet untapped potential for analyzing usage patterns in network tra c ows due to their ability to lter out data up to a given approximation order Neither simple character searches nor Fourier analysis has this capability Also while Fourier analysis generally gives only frequency information within an analysis window wavelet analysis gives some amount of both frequency information and the location of that frequency activity The additional information comes at no additional computational costs since the bases are generally applied by convolving matrix lters over the data repeated matrix multiplication over sliding blocks of data In particular the multiwavelet bases introduced in this document should prove to be particularly useful in pattern-matching applications due to their short support that is non-zero only over a small interval the inclusion of splines in the approximation spaces instead of just polynomials and the ability to use them on time series with left and right boundaries The author is currently working with computer scientists at the CyberDefense Lab CDL at Western Kentucky University to develop software that will utilize these bases in network security intrusion-detection and data-extrusion applications Once developed we will study the e ectiveness of this type of analysis in detecting malicious behavior as compared to the more commonly used techniques with the hope of improving detection capabilities while maintaining a low false-positive rate The software will initially be tested in the CDL s sandbox while running attacks from its attack library with various background usage scripts being implemented but will eventually move to less controlled network environments Acknowledments  This work supported in part by the NACMAST consortium under contract EWAGSI-07-SC-0003 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


References 1 C K  C h u ia n d Q  T  J i a n g  Multivariate Balanced Vector-Valued Re nable Functions  in V W Haussmann K Jetter M Reimer and J St ockler Eds Modern Development in Multivariate Approximation vol 145 Birkh auser Verlag Basel 2003 pp 71 102 2 G  D o n o v an  J  G er on im o an d D  H a r d i n  Intertwining Multiresolution Analyses and the Construction of Piecewise Polynomial Wavelets  SIAM J Math Anal 27\(6 1996 1791 1815 3 J  G er onim o  D H a r d in a nd P  M a ss opust Fractal Functions and Wavelet Expansions Based on Several Scaling Functions  J Approx Theory 78:3 1994 373 401 4 D  H ar d i n a nd B  K e ssler  Orthogonal Macroelement Scaling Vectors and Wavelets in 1-D  Arab.J.Sci.Eng.Sect.C\(ThemeIssue Wavelet and Fractal Methods in Science and Engineering Part 1 28:1C 2003 73 88  D  Har din a nd D  R o a c h Multiwavelet Prelters I Orthogonal Pre lters Preserving Approximation Order 2  IEEE Trans CircuitsSyst.II:AnalogDigitalSignalProces 45\(8 1998 1106 1112  B  K e ssler  An Orthogonal Scaling Vector Generating a Space of 1 Cubic Splines Using Macroelements  J Concrete Appl Math Special Issue on Wavelets and Applications 4\(4 2006 393 413  J  L ebr u n a nd M  V e tt e r li Balanced Multiwavelet Theory and Design  IEEE Trans Signal Process 46\(4 1998 1119 1125  J  L e b r u n a n d M  V e t t er li High Order Balanced Multiwavelets in Proc IEEE Int Conf Acoust Speech Signal Processing ICASSP vol.3,Seattle\(May1998\1529 1532  J  L ian Armlets and Balanced Multiwavelets Flipping Filter Construction  IEEE Trans Signal Process 53\(5 2005 1754 1767 1 I W Selesnic k  Balanced GHM-like Multiscaling Functions  IEEE Signal Process Lett 6\(5 1999 111 112 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments pre></body></html 


common concern was compliance with the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA information privacy. Organizations were unsure whether DP products would be HIPAA compliant and even if the products themselves were secure whether their onboard information could be kept secure when the pens are small and easily lost  3.4.3. Implications for DP. Although there was substantial interest in DP technology among professional services and white collar organizations the ethnographic findings suggest that delivering appropriate value from DP technology would be difficult. The first barrier would be providing a platform that either conforms to or changes current behaviors around pen and paper: free availability of pens and unpatterned paper in the workplace behaviors of writing on environmental paper, and the need to keep up with a personal pen with one?s data The second barrier would be to meet expectations around text; much of the value was seen as being in retention and searching of textual information, but this would be made difficult by the frequent inclusion of acronyms, abbreviations symbols, and foreign languages. Many organizations saw value in centralized repositories that would manage DP information across many employees; this would require an IT infrastructure that was not available \(e.g., to manage the DP pattern space might be difficult and expensive to develop and maintain. It also poses questions about privacy, since employees might not wish the archive to retain personal information captured alongside work notes Finally, because we noted real or perceived barriers that were highly specific to various industries it appeared that DP solutions would be most likely to succeed if they were tailored to very specific settings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 and use cases. This does not argue against DP usage and its value, but it suggests that delivering value to organizations may require substantially more design and development effort than a single general solution or platform would provide  4. Discussion  Our findings show that the interaction model of DP technology diverges substantially from common pen and paper usage. This divergence leads to unclear utility of DP for consumer note-taking purposes, and in a field trial, resulted in high abandonment rate of a consumer DP product. Among the most significant limitations were the low value seen in review of facsimile notes on a PC, the requirement with DP to use a special pen paired with patterned paper, and the low perceived value of capturing only notes taken on blank paper as opposed to handouts and other materials. In the enterprise space, the environmental issues were even more prominent due to the common infrastructure of freely available, communal pens and paper and the lack of IT infrastructure for DP document retention The note-taking research reported here suggests that writing behavior comprises many important areas besides capture, retention, and review of specific data. For instance, a single blank piece of paper or a one-word reminder may adequately serve as a reminder to do something that one intends, even though there may be little or no content as such Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending 


Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending a lecture, it may be socially desirable to take notes even if they are later simply disposed. Taking notes may also serve purposes of memory consolidation even when the content is never reviewed [8][9  4.1 DP and Writing Acts  Linguistic acts in social context have been described using a model of performative behavior commonly known as ?speech acts? theory [15 Chapman [2] extended that model to encompass writing, suggesting that many aspects of ?writing acts are unique and separate from spoken language.  In the extended model, writing acts may be described with a multidimensional taxonomy encompassing a writer?s context, aspects of the process, type of content, and linguistic features of the content Table 3 summarizes the dimensions of writing acts \(from [2 exemplify each dimension. For instance, ?separability denotes the extent to which items in a document are logically independent of one another; in a contract nothing is separable because the document is a single piece, while on a to-do list, many or all items may be independent of one another [2 DP technology may benefit from attention to the dimensions that are exemplified by writing acts embedded in social contexts. DP systems may be able to perform some kinds of writing acts quite well, but in other cases, DP may be inconvenient, unnecessary or inappropriate. Models such as the writing acts framework can be used both to understand user behavior broadly and systematically to explore the applicability of DP products across the general space of writing behavior A key problem for DP in note taking applications is that note taking can involve nearly every possible dimension of writing acts. Notes may be separable or not; they may serve as functional content or as contextual reminders; they may present just the facts? or be more interpretive; they may be transient or might be intended to be archival documents; and so forth. In short, notes are able to present a vast array of writing styles that pose substantially different value propositions and technological implications for DP products Delivering a general DP solution for note taking may therefore be expected to be difficult  Table 3: Dimensions of Writing Acts [2  Dimension Exemplars Separability a contract vs. a to-do list Function a typed inventory list vs calligraphy Emotionality a love letter vs. a packing slip Spatiality a transcript of speech vs. a diagram depicting concept relationships Associativity notes from class vs. doodling Linearity chronological notes vs. notes placed in a spatial ordering scheme Originality an essay vs. feedback on a manuscript Prescriptivity a signature vs. general notes Finality a document that will be archival vs. one that is a draft Structure a grocery list vs. concepts from a brainstorm Personality a letter to someone vs. a 


Personality a letter to someone vs. a journalistic essay Formality a business letter vs. a greeting card to a close friend  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 For product development purposes, the writing acts framework can be used to ensure coverage of use cases by generating possible scenarios combining various attributes of written documents. These potential combinations may then be explored evaluated, and prioritized for research attention development effort, or testing  4.2 Possible Directions for DP Technology  4.2.1. Note taking. What would make DP technology more popular for note taking? Our research suggests that this is a complex question because there are numerous behavioral barriers. The largest single problem for DP may be that it is a closed system comprising a special pen and patterned paper and does not function with the wide array of writing utensils and paper products that people use especially for environmentally available pens, paper and documents. If this problem could be solved or mitigated through an expanded DP technology platform, DP would avoid the large behavioral block posed by the current need for users to change their existing pen and paper habits DP effectively focuses on notes as data neglecting many aspects of the embedded social nature and process function of notes. If DP notes were easily integrated into a wider range of behavioral processes, adoption should increase. For example, if notes could be automatically handled for content such as phone numbers, appointment times reminders, temporary content, and the like, then the DP platform would come closer to matching current pen and paper usage. However, in many cases, there is a separate and larger issue: computer technology today also is not integrated into such processes. To take a simple example, consider a written grocery list Even if the problem could be solved to recognize extract, and transfer the list to a PC, it would be of little use because, for most people, the PC itself is not integrated into the grocery shopping process. Much information of this kind is transient; there is no need to manage or retain it once the paper has been used An example of potentially closer workflow integration is shown in the recently released Livescribe Pulse Smartpen [11], which couples the Anoto DP platform with audio recording such that note takers can review the audio of a meeting or lecture at the exact point that a note was written. We believe that these kinds of additions to base DP functionality are likely to appeal to specific niches of users, but as more use cases like these are enabled over time, DP may successively attain value for larger numbers of users In our field trials and organizational visits, one of the most common customer expectations was that DP notes should be converted from handwriting to text; respondents commonly noted that PC data is of little use unless it is transcribed to text. To meet customer demands, a DP product will need to address this expectation: the DP must either deliver text recognition with very high accuracy, which is a difficult problem, or it should manage the expectation in some other way that preserves customer perception of value from PC integration 


of value from PC integration The high cost of DP products \(approximately US 100 for a pen, plus the need for specially patterned paper demonstrable additional benefit. Transferring notes from paper to a PC today merely involves typing Unless the need for automation is great and the DP function is nearly perfect, users may simply prefer to type or to carry paper rather than to change behavior to use expensive and less flexible technology  4.2.2. Structured input. As noted in the Introduction above, another use case for DP technology is structured input of information. In particular, DP technology may be useful for form-based input into database and workflow systems, where information is initially recorded on paper forms and then automatically transferred from the pen to a database application. Although the present research report is concerned primarily with note taking applications, in the course of our enterprise research we discussed potential applications for forms-based DP usage We noted possible use cases that fell into five general areas: \(1 easier input of information by customers, such as clients filling out deposit or withdrawal slips at a bank; \(2 information from paper to database without needing to rekey or type the information, such as factory inspection and quality assurance logs, traffic tickets shipping manifests, and so forth; \(3 environments that were not suitable for handheld computing devices, such as construction sites and some kinds of manufacturing facilities; \(4 in which paper-based records are desirable for either employee compliance or customer comfort, such as medical settings; and \(5 based records are necessary, e.g., for legal reasons but a DP product could support faster turnaround and error correction. An example of such application involved financial forms that undergo offsite optical character recognition; a DP system might allow immediate recognition and error correction We plan to report this line of research fully in the future. For now, we note that each of those areas has various benefits and potential limitations with regard to DP technology. Forms-based use cases are more precisely defined and structured than note taking, in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 terms of environment, workflow, and content; the information context, form design, and potential for systems integration with rapid feedback may mitigate issues with handwriting recognition; and enterprise customers may be less price sensitive than consumers Thus, structured input appears to be a more promising near-future application of DP technology than note taking  4.3 Research Discussion  As we noted above, the present research was primarily behavioral and qualitative. Thus, despite the strength and consistency of our results across multiple samples, contexts, and locations, we present no specific metrics or tested hypotheses on user behavior with DP products. Our findings could be used to inform directional hypotheses for future depth or quantitative research. For instance, one might formulate and test hypotheses about cultural differences, interest levels in DP between various groups such as professional and non-professional 


office workers, market research metrics such as price sensitivity, and the like It is important to underscore the value of ethnographic fieldwork in the present research. It would be possible to conduct design research that explores how to make DP technology better, e.g., in terms of usability and function, without investigating exactly what people would do with such products and why. It was only when we investigated behavior in depth that we discovered the divergence of DP products? limited current value for note taking, as opposed to the high value that one might presume in the absence of depth research  5. Conclusion  In our research, initial trials of digital pens in a controlled setting \(Research Series 2 above suggested potentially good fit between digital pen functionality and consumer note taking needs However, when we explored real world behavior in note taking \(Research Series 1, 3, and 4 above found many potential barriers to adoption of digital pens for note taking. In particular, traditional pen and paper offer advantages in terms of cost, widespread and ad hoc availability, flexibility to work with multiple sources seamlessly, behavioral workflow integration, and manageability of content The value of using digital pens will increase if manufacturers are able to expand their platform technology progressively to enable broader coverage of behavioral scenarios and habits, focusing on the broad range of writing behaviors rather than just needs for facsimile replication on a computer Alternatively, digital pen technology may be more easily applied to tasks involving structured input rather than unstructured note taking We suggest that DP development efforts should use existing linguistic frameworks \(e.g., [2 the space of writing acts of interest. This should allow DP products to target behavioral needs in a more focused manner, leading to higher customer adoption  6. Acknowledgements  We thank many people who participated in this research: first and foremost, the numerous research participants, firms, and organizations who so generously shared their time and insights, but who must remain confidential; and many colleagues and research partners at Microsoft who collaborated on the technology investigation and research efforts especially Jeff Staiman, Vince Ball, Brian Williams Yoshiyuki Moriya, Stephen Cooper, Dave Shen Setsuko Arimatsu, Benjamin Babcock, Dennis Meinhardt, John Chiloyan, Glen Larsen, Mehrdad Basseri, Lori Birtley, Ken Hinckley, and Jian Wang  7. References  1] Anoto Group. Digital pen and paper. Web page http://www.anoto.com/?id=158, last retrieved May 28 2008  2] Chapman, C. N. Writing acts: taxonomy and technological implications. Paper presented at North American Computing and Philosophy \(CAP Corvallis, OR, August 2005  3] Despont-Gros, C., B?uf, C., Geissbuhler, A., and Lovis C. \(2005 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





