Mycrocosm: Visual Microblogging   Yannick Assogba MIT Media Lab 20 Ames Street, Cambridge MA yannick@media.mit.edu   Judith Donath MIT Media Lab 20 Ames Street, Cambridge MA judith@media.mit.edu   Abstract This paper introduces Mycrocosm, a microblogging site in which users communicate via statistical graphics, rather than th e usual short text statements.Users of Mycrocosm can record everyday personal statistics and share this information in the form of simple graphs and charts. People have 
used it to track how they got to work and how long it took, what colour clothes they wore, how often they checked their Facebook updates, how often a colleague shows up late, and many other trends and events. Mycrocosm raises awareness of the strong yet subtle effect a medium has upon the messages it conveys. Most computerbased communication interfaces are textbased, so while the conduit is computational the medium is not far different from a typewriter Mycrocosm, by using easily updated statistical graphs, creates an easy to use and understand medium that nevertheless is quite different from other forms of communication, both direct and computer mediated   1. Introduction  The primary language of the web is, and has 
been for a long time, text. Recently, we have seen the delivery and adoption of other forms of media on the web mature greatly. Sites such as Youtube 1 have made the consumption and creation of video widely accessible. Photo-sharing sitesplay a similar role for static images while contemporary social network sites blend image, sound, video and text to create rich spaces for social interaction. The landscape for media rich interpersonal communication has greatly broadened, and it is within this landscape that we situate our system, a microblogging site that appropriates the 
visual language of statistics Mycrocosm is a web service that allows users to track and share everyday personal statistics using simple graphs and charts to display their data. We describe Mycrocosm as a visual microblog because   1 http://youtube.com like other microblogging services, users add data in short but frequent entries; like other micro-blogging and status-updating systems, our goal is for people to use this tool as a medium for self-expression. Our goal in creating Mycrocosm is to explore more 
graphical approaches to human interpersonal communication than existing tools Graphics are becoming part of everyday communication for ordinary individuals. While we are familiar with sites like Flickr 2 Zoomr 3 and Youtube,Mcdon a s don e a deeper s t u d y o n t h e u s e  of image \(primarily photographic\ a conversation tool in web communities and identified six broad categories of visual conversation styles in those communities;reaffirming our belief that more graphical alternatives to text conversation are indeed practical Ordinary individuals are also increasingly ex 
posed to info-graphics as a means of communication Publications such as the New York Times increasingly use info-graphics to support their stories [1  and we observe an increasing use of info-graphic style in pop culture and advertising  b  sites such as ManyEyes 4 Swivel 5 and TrackNGraph 6  put tools for data analysis and information visualization in the hands of ordinary web users Although information graphics are becoming increasingly common, their use is still primarily utilitarian: when we think of information graphics, it is 
usually in the context of serious data. Pousman et  a v e iden ti f i ed casual information visualization systems as a distinct subgroup of tradition information visualization systems noting four core differences between the two, particularly with respect to their user population, usage pattern, data type and insight Mycrocosmis better situated in this model of casual infovis systems as it is entirely designed to be a social space where visualization techniques are used as graphical tools for self-expression 
  2 http://flickr.com 3 http://www.zoomr.com 4 http://services.alphaworks.ibm.com/manyeyes/home  5  http://www.swivel.com  6  http://www.trackngraph.com/www  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


 We also live in a world where issues of personal data collection, control, and use are becoming increasingly important. Our representation of people as their data seems appropriate to the current technological climate in encouraging people to think to the people of how data collected about themselves can be used This paper will describe the function and design of the Mycrocosm web application, giving some examples of how it is used. We shall also situate our work with respect to current social and artistic practices that engage with data as representation and aesthetic. Finally we shall discuss our motivations in creating this application and future directions that this work could take  2. Related Work  2.1. Visualization in popular culture  Sites such as ManyEyes and Swivel place visualization tools in the hands of ordinary web users users are able to upload data sets to these sites and collectively analyze and annotate them. While the primary focus on these sites is on collective dataanalysis of complex or large data sets, Viegas et al  concludethat users are reinventing visualization technology for social and personal purposes Mycrocosm aims to create a sociable visualization tool that takes this newer use case as its goal Another area from which our work is informed our work is artistic approaches to the visualization of personal data. Artists and designers are using personal data and a data driven aesthetic to explore our individual and societal relationships to creating, recording and publishing personal data At the same time these artists suggest new ways at which we can look at notions of identity. Ellie Harrison is an artist whose practice engages directly with personal data collection. Her works include Eat 22 in which she photographed everything she ate for a year, and projects where she counted how often she sneezed or wrote down what she was thinking every time she had a cup of r ai g  R obin s o n created Personal Pies a set of pie-charts the recount various aspects of his life from birth to adulth w h ic h provides an excellent example of the use of statistical visual language in an expressive manner. Nicholas Felton is a graphic designer who for the past three years has compiled yearly Annual Reports detailing numerous minutiae from the past year in a richly designed book More b roadly  w e can obs erv e  the appropriation of visualization tools on sites like GraphJam 7  h ere u s ers  u p l o ad g r aph i cal in terpretations of songs and pop culture memes, made using tools like Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Visio or Google docs. These examples give strong evidence that this particular visual form is adaptable to non-traditional social and communicative uses   Figure 1- Graph produced by user of graphjam  2.2. Microblogging  Mycrocosm also relates to the practice of microblogging. Through microblogging, and in blogging at large, people are presented with the opportunity to say what is on their mind and engage in discourse over the Internet. According to the Pew Internet & American life project, 44% of US Internet users have created content onlin i an o and Gumbrech a v e exa m i n ed peoples use of and motivations for blogging, while more recently Java et al. [5 ha ve l o o k e d at usa g e p a t t e r n s w i t h i n  Twitter 8 Much blogging is done primarily as a social activity. From simply keeping people aware of ones activities \(exciting or banal\ publishing thoughts and opinions to ones small but attentive audience, to everyday chatter, these tools function as spaces for social interaction for a large and ever increasing number of people Microblogging is a relatively recent form of blogging. Here, users publish very short entries about what they are doing or thinking at a given moment.Mycroscosm is similar to text microblogs in that each entry takes a minimal amount of effort, thus making it easy to frequently update, and also being of a scale that encourages posting about mundane activities. However, text microblogs focus on the now   they are about what you are doing now. Mycrocosm is also about trends over time, accumulations of in  7 http://www.graphjam.com 8  http://twitter.com One of the most popular text based microblogging sites Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


formation each entry may be about now, but the display extends into the past    3. How it Works  Mycrocosm users create and update data charts The charts can be about anything what they ate for dinner, what time they got up, whether they wore eye shadow that day and so on.Charts are publicly displayed on the Mycrocosm site unless the user specifies that chart to be private. Each user has a home page that displays the charts they have created in reverse chronological order \(fig 2\rrently users cannot re-order their charts but this is certainly a planned feature to enable users to more effectively use multiple graphs together to communicate a message. The Mycrocosm front page also displays recently updated publicly visible charts, as well as a list of users sorted by the amount of content they have on the site \(fig 3 Mycrocosm charts \(the front page and user s pages are visible to visitors of the site without requiring login, this is aimed at making it easier to share graphs once created Users create and update charts from the site itself or from their mobile phone, all via short text entries Given the audience and use pattern Mycrocosm was conceived for, its design strives towards simplicity in both data entry and options for visualization            3.1. Data Entry  Once users have signed onto the Mycrocosm website, they can start creating datasets for things they want to track. A dataset is a collection of entries Figure 3 - Mycrocosm main page Figure 2 - A user page in Mycrocosm Figure 4 - Graph made by mycrocosm user Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


on some subject that are grouped together to make a graph. The main mode of data entry is a single line text-field on the users home page. Text was chosen as entry modality to allow easy interaction via a mobile device. Mycrocosm uses a very simple syntax to enable data entry, a plus symbol \(+\ollowed by the name of the dataset is used toindicate that the user wants to create a new dataset, thus if a user wanted to begin tracking what colour shirt they wear day to day they would type in Shirt Colour the quotes are not included in the user input To enter data into this newly created dataset the user types in the name of the dataset followed by the data they want to put into it, thus if the user wore an orange shirt today they would type in Shirt Colour Orange Notice the use of the full stop in the entered string; this separates the name of the dataset from what is being entered into it, this full stop is optional if the name of the dataset does not contain spaces. The plus symbol \(+\ also be used to associate a particular cardinality with an entry. Thus if a user wanted to indicate that they have seven pairs of sneakers they may enter the following string shoes sneakers + 7 assuming they already have a dataset entitled shoes if no cardinality is given by the user it is assumed to be one. The plus and full stop are the only symbols used apart from the data that the user is trying to enter.The user can also assign a short code to any dataset; this is usually a short string to save typing the full name of the dataset. Thus Shirt Colour in the above examples could be replaced by s  If a syntax error is made during data entry an error message is displayed to the user on their user page, directly below where they enter data. This error reporting does not extend to the mobile text interface which is certainly a limitation, however we could easily provide feedback via SMS or email in future iterations Datasets can be edited by their creator at any time. Apart from changing the datasets options such as the datasets name, the short code associated with the dataset or the type of graphic used to visualize the data, each entry can be modified after its creation This enables corrections to be made to entries and the dates associated with entries to be changed, this latter use case also enables a user to enter data for a number of different dates at once \(i.e. retroactive data entry\. The editing of datasets is done using a web based form interface rather than the command line style text entry. This prevents edits to entries and datasets from being done over the mobile text interface. While it would be possible to create a messaging interface to enable these features over text messages, it would likely be extremely cumbersome and not necessarily all that useful as the user would still not be able to see the graphic without access to the web As described above, the following sequence of commands Rambo Kills  Rambo Kills. Shirt on 129 and Rambo Kills. Shirt off + 91 would produce the following graph 9     We will discuss the creation of visualizations further in this paper. In general Mycrocosm s understanding of user data is as strings that are grouped together and counted in order to create the graphs the different ways in which entries are grouped together will be discussed further on in this paper\ever Mycrocosm can differentiate regular strings from strings representing numbers and strings representing time and treat these data differently \(e.g numbers can be summed up rather than counting the number of instances of that number in the dataset Another feature supported by Mycrocosm is the tracking of time. We were interested in allowing people to capture aspects of the daily rhythms of their lives, and the system has particular features to enable this. When a user creates a dataset with the word time in its title it is initially assumed to be a dataset in which a user wishes to record time. For example if a user wanted to track when they took breaks during the day, they can first set this up by entering Break time into the system, then whenever they take a break, they need only enter Break Time and the system will record the current time as the time of their break, they can also enter a time in natural language to specify when the event happened \(e.g Break Time. 3:45pm ime tracking in Mycrocosm is also extended to recording durations, when working with a time dataset, one can input the keyword start to start a timer and enter the keyword stop to end the timer on that dataset and record that   9 The caption below the image Rambo Kills under various conditions is added separately on the edit dataset options page Figure 5 - Pie chart Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


duration. These events and durations are also displayed in a simple visualization       Mycrocosm also provides another way to create a new dataset, by copying an old one. Next to each dataset, logged in users can see a link to copy a dataset s template; this is visually represented as a light grey plus \(+\gn next to title of the dataset. Copying a datasets template creates a new dataset with the same title, captions and options for the user that did the copy. It does not copy the entries existing in that dataset. Apart from providing an easy way for a user browsing the site to start tracking something they come across for themselves, providing this shortcut also helps reduce the possible number of different names for very similar graphs that may exist. We plan to augment this feature with a tagging interface to make it easier to browse through graphs that may be related in some way  3.2. Mobile data entry  One of the reasons the command line style, text input interface was chosen was to enable easy mobile entry even for those without sophisticated phones with web browsing capabilities. Once a user has registered his phone number or email with the system the user can use the exact same syntax described above to create and populate datasets. Users can send SMS messages or emails from their cell phones to add data to their collection. We believe enabling the use of Mycrocosm on the go is important in enabling people to capture events as they happen as easily as possible. The other advantage of the text-based interface is that it is very easy to create other services and interfaces that can talk to the Mycrocosm web site  3.3. Visualization  Mycrocosm currently uses a small number of simple statistical graphs to visualize user data; currently it supports pie charts \(fig 5.\raphs \(fig 7\tacked bar graphs \(fig 8\floating column graphs for showing time and duration \(fig 6\d line graphs fig 9\ets with a single entry the user can also use formatted text to display the data \(fig 10 aesthetic considerations led us to provide this option For each dataset users can select which visualization to use, the exception to th is is that the floating column chart is the only one used with datasets that explicitly track time. Additionally users can select different ways of organizing the data. By default entries are simply counted and the magnitude of each value is displayed. However the user can organize the data by date and get a view of the distribution of entries since they started entering them, or they can organize the data by day of the week here entries are grouped and counted according to the day of the week they were entered. Each visualization is restricted to an area of about 300x300 pixels, this enables us to display each user s page as a set of small visualizations in the style of an information dashboard. Thus visitors to a users page can quickly get a look at the variety of what that user is tracking and any interesting data that appears          Figure 6 … Two time tracking charts, the user wanted to compare co ffee breaks to commits to a version control system Figure 7 - Bar chart Figure 8 … Stacked bar chart Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


       3.4. Social and Collaborative features  Mycrocosm also has features to ease interaction between users of the site as well as those that allow for direct collaboration between users Like many web sites featuring user-generated content, registered users can leave comments on other users datasets. We also support more direct collaboration in the form of shared datasets these are datasets that allow multiple people to contribute to or edit a dataset. To collaborate on a dataset, a user has to create a dataset and share it with other users. We added the concept of followers to restrict number of the people one can share datasets with or from whom one can receive dataset invitations Followers in Mycrocosm are similar to followers on Twitter they are people who have decided to follow your activity. To do this users click on a follow button that is available on all users home pages. Once a user follows another, that user is added to their following  list and they are added to that users followers list These lists are also displayed on every users home page. Graphs can only be shared between mutual followers, we place no limit on how many people a user can follow, so in effect we are not limiting how many people one can collaborate on graphs with, the purpose of requiring mutual following was to avoid situations where a malicious user may try and spam  other users with numerous invitations to collaborate on datasets. While this restriction was the main reason we introduced followers, we realize that having ones followers displayed can act as an indicator of who ones audience may be \(at least within the mycrocosm community\d may act as encouragement to continue posting Shared datasets allow multiple people to contribute and edit entries on a particular dataset, however they also allow each user to choose a different visualization for their copy of the dataset, each user can also create their own caption for the dataset. We do however prevent the name of a dataset from being edited once it has been shared. Shared datasets are also displayed using a different colour palette from other graphs on the site in order to immediately differentiate them    4. Discussion  4.1. Why graphical communication  Our motivation in creating Mycrocosm was to enable a different form of communication than the plain text we are all accustomed to. New communication media afford opportunities for new kinds of communication. We believe that using the powerful yet constrained form provided by Mycrocosm can enable and encourage different kind of message passing than commonly seen at present Two salient affordances of this visual form are its compactness and the cumulative nature of the graphs. Its compact nature allows a graph to act as an easily understandable overview of what may be a large amount of data. We are not referring to data that is large in the traditional info-vis sense but rather in the sense that if it were to be expressed in prose it would likely take up a lot of space or otherwise be overly verbose. The cumulative nature of the graphs over time allow an ongoing narrative of events to be represented in a single graphic capturing the temporal Figure 11 … Two views on the same shared dataset maintained by two separate users Figure 9 … Line Graph Figure 10 … Formatted text graphic Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


rhythms of day to day activity and allowing the communication of histories and patterns of behaviour The ability to capture and store vast amounts of history is a hallmark of our digital communication tools, yet that capability is not equally expressed in all media. Contrasting text with the medium we propose, we can see how our proposed style of writing  is more adept at simultaneously displaying information from past topresent due to its compact and cumulative nature As a form for online identity the above factors enable this medium to be a way to quickly get a sense of who a person is, or at least what a person chooses to represent about themselves. One of our initial goals for Mycrocosm was that it could enable a form of open, dynamic, and temporal profile The ability of the graphs to represent a long period of effort in collecting data can act as a strong signal of the importance placed on what the user chooses to track In addition to the above affordances, there is very much a qualitative difference in the feel of communicating with a graph, this difference in feel is the crux of the ability of a medium to affect the content of its message. For example the difference in saying \(or writing\at one s highlight of this years Olympics was the performance of Michael Phelps andmaintaining a graph such as the one below      Its distinctiveness from plain text also allows it to communicate things that would be difficult or awkward to communicate in prose. The graph in fig 4 has a wonderful ambiguity about how the user may actually feel about getting most of their birthday wishes through Facebook, on one hand it is possible that the user is excited that Facebook has allowed more people to remember their special day and wish them well while on the other it may act as a commentary about the nature of their different friendships as she contrasts those who do not need the memory prosthesis provided by this social networking site in order to wish her a happy birthday to those who do In fact this particular user created the graph as a sign of the times, and thought it would be fun to show how much we depend on Facebook nowadays  While it has little to do with capturing history, this graph as well as others such as fig 12 and fig 7 are more about making statements, graphically It is this difference in medium that offers a change in the mode of expression that we are interested in exploring through Mycrocosm  4.2. Preliminary user observations  At the time of this writing Mycrocosm has been fully publicly available for just over a week. We will first describe what kind of usage we are observing amongst our new users then do a more in depth discussion of a much smaller set of users that acted as testers while we were developing Mycrocosm We started to advertise Mycrocosm mainly through word of mouth via email and twitter. We were also fortunate to have it featured on a popular information visualization blog, which helped drive traffic to the site. Over the past 10 days we have received over 4000 hundred unique visitors 235 of these visitors have signed up and made578 datasets 127 of these datasets are currently empty\ with a total of 2980 entries. Of the 578 datasets created, 55 are private and 523 are publicly visible. Common themes for graphs among new users include tracking habits relating to eating and sleeping, travelling/commuting, mood and music. We also see graphs indicating particular events and special occurrences in user s lives, while another class of graphs are those describing some aspect of their creator Figure16 also shows a pair of graphs \(belonging to a pair of users that presumably know each other\hat in fact reference a common subject.We shall show a small selection of these graphs here 10        10 Usernames have been blurred out Figure 12 - "Olympics" graph Figure 13 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


               The graphs above were created by users of Mycrocosm from the general public; earlier on in the development process we invited a small set of people to use Mycrocosm.We shall discuss the experiences of three of these users in this next section 11 These early users come from the authors academic community; two are members of the authors research group though they are not directly involved in developing Mycrocosm. The third was an undergraduate student working for another research group over the summer. She came to know of mycrocosm via word of mouth and was interested in trying it out. The length of time they spent using mycrocosm varied going from approximately one week for two of the users up to 47 days for the third. None of these users were given any specific instruction when directed to the Mycrocosm site. A little while after their activity on the site reduced they were sent a questionnaire to gauge their experience. While this is quite a small sample it does shed some light on possible motivations to using mycrocosm The most commonly described use of mycrocosm amongst these users was introspection. Users tracked sports scores in personal competition, eating destinations, number of dinner companions, commute time, meals consumed and other eccentricities of life such as teeth brushing behaviour and fashion choices. This is not surprising as Mycrocosm provides a way to record and quantify one s behaviour One user, Jane, says I always felt that my commute was long and out of personal curiosity I collected numbers just to see a\ how long it is, b\ how big a chunk of my time every day is eaten up by commuting although I had a general sense of what the pattern was, I thought it would be interesting to find out precisely  Peter \(our longest running user\ writes I'm primarily interested in introspection - it's fun to see what the variety of places I eat is ... Because eating is   11 Names used here are pseudonyms  Figure 14 Figure 16 Figure 15 Figure 17 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


something that happens every day, it's easy to make updating mycrocosm a part of my routine. I keep it on my bookmark bar and when I'm looking for ways to procrastinate, I'll log on and add the previous day's information  Related to the above use is that of communicating something to others about yourself, using data Jane recounts that she created a graph to track what she eats in order to rebuff a complaint that her roommate had that she ate too skewed a diet. However this use can take an interesting turn, as users are careful of what they put in their graphs and how it makes them look. For example Peter says For all my graphs, I'm always excited to enter in new data that increases the diversity of my chart, or grows a category that's rare. For instance, if I eat dinner somewhere I don't usually eat, I like to enter that because it increases the diversity of places it looks like I've been He continues I also think a little bit about how other people will interpret it. For instance, I don't want to over-represent the times when I eat alone. Since that's already a reasonably frequent category, I probably end up under-reporting those instances because they're not unique and I don't really want it to seem like I'm often eating alone  Peter engages in the practice of impression manageme m o n t o on li n e s o cial s p aces an d i n deed almost any social space in which we are perceived by others There is also use of Mycrocosm for more general non-egocentric communication. We have already described the graph commenting on Facebook as memory prosthesis, but we also observed graphs made to comment on others behaviour and habits, for example one of our users made a graph to track/comment on how often one of their acquaintances was late for their meetings as a gentle reminder to that acquaintance Two of our users also commented on how they felt the investment of adding data to the graphs over time gave them a certain weight and credibility that differed from more the more ephemeral text based microblogging systems. Peter says I really like my charts on mycrocosm have some depth to them. I can show to people that I really care about something by how much I update it, as opposed to facebook where they kind of have to take my word that I've always liked a certain band or book. In mycrocosm, I could have a chart that shows how many pages of certain authors I've read, or how many movies I watch a month  While it is still too early to draw strong conclusions from the above user accounts, they provide promising indicators that Mycrocosm provides a flexible,  expressive and unique communication tool  4.3. Truth, Truthiness and Statistical Graphs  Mycrocosm can be, and often has been, used as a tool to keep track of factual data the length of one s commute, one s waking time, diet info, exercise records, etc.  Yet it can also be used for more subjective narratives, and there is a certain irony in using statistical graphs to represent thoughts, ideas and fictional data. Statistical representations are often seen as representations of truth or fact and in our context this association provides a interesting juxtaposition to what may actually be communicated; that feel of truth and authority adds a certain irony when what is being represented is, say, the amount of Haterade 12 consumed amongst a group of friends. Just as we can express truth, opinions and non-truths in text, Mycrocosm presents users with the opportunity to use statistics association with credibility in representing who they are but also allows one to express partial/non truths. This odd juxtaposition actually adds to the humanity of the graphs, as users push on these associations of charts with facts, they turn data into stories, and collections of graphs into portraits  5. Conclusion & Future Work  In this paper we have introduced Mycrocosm, a new web service for social communication and identity representation that allows users to use simple statistical graphs as an expressive communicative medium Some of our future work includes further exploration of what this visual vocabulary should contain as we scale the web site up in use we will have a better chance to evaluate what the different kind of visualizations that people need are as well as examine what types of communication emerge within this medium. We also want to expand and examine the usefulness of Mycrocosm in the context of users other lifestreaming/personal publishing data. We plan to enable the embedding of live Mycrocosm graphs on external web pages \(such as a user s blog\nd to hopefully integrateMycrocosm with social data aggregation systems such as FriendFeed 13 or Facebook and see whether it can augment these existing forms in a meaningful way. Additionally we also plan to provide APIs to allow easy automation of data entry on the site    12 A slang term that rhymes with Gatorade a popular sports drink\, for a drink purportedly drunk by and fuelling those who hate on are jealous of\hers http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=haterade 13 http://friendfeed.com  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


5. References  1. Felton, N. 2007 Feltron Annual Report Retrieved from http://www.feltron.com/index.php?/content/2007_annual_r eport   2. Goffman, E. 1959 The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life New York: Doubleday   3. Graphjam Graphjam Retrieved from http://graphjam.com   4. Harrison, E Ellie Harrison Portfolio Retrieved from http://www.ellieharrison.com/_homepage.htm   5. Java, A., Song, X., Finin, T., & Tseng, B. \(2007\ Why we twitter: understanding microblogging usage and communities. In Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNAKDD 2007 workshop on Web mining and social network analysis pp. 56-65\San Jose, California  6. Lenhart, A., Fallows, D., & Horrigan, J. \(2004 Content Creation Online ew Internet & American Life Project Retrieved June 15, 2008, from http://www.pewinternet.org/PPF/r/113/report_display.asp   7. Lewiston, C. Personal Pies. . Retrieved from http://www.flipflopflyin.com/personalpies   8.D.W. McDonald Visual Conversation Styles in Web Communities In Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences vol. 40, 2007, p. 1238   9. MK12. \(2007 Stranger than Fiction Intro Sequence  Retrieved June 14, 2008, from http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9iWbAw-L1lg   10. Nardi, B. A., Schiano, D. J., & Gumbrecht, M. \(2004 Blogging as social activity, or, would you let 900 million people read your diary? In Proceedings of the 2004 ACM conference on Computer supported cooperative work pp 222-231\ Chicago, Illinois, USA  11. Z. Pousman, J.T. Stasko, and M. Mateas Casual Information Visualization: Depictions of Data in Everyday Life in IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics 2007, pp. 1145-1152  12. Serena Williams's Professional Career. . \(2007, August 19 The New York Times Retrieved June 14, 2008, from http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2007/08/19/sports/200 70819_SERENA_GRAPHIC.html?adxnnl=1&adxnnlx=11 90759125-TH8+4WEzUOKHVLWjY9Hwkg   13. Superfad Gotta Go", Ad for Toyota Retrieved from http://www.superfad.com/clientlist.php?project=30   14. Viegas, F., Wattenberg, M., Mckeon, M., Ham, F Kriss, J. \(2008\. Harry Potter and the Meat-Filled Freezer A Case Study of Spontaneous Usage  of Visualization Tools. In Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Proceedings of the 41st Annual p. 159\trieved June 15, 2008, from http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/HICSS.2008.188 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


Service Description Service Data Entity Replica Processing Unit Network Device Invoke Derive Specific Quality Non-Functional Performance Requirement Storage Unit Workstation User Profile Application Constraint Availability Transition Functional Data Entity Operation Behavior Utilization Network Process Capacity Module Initiate Invoke Initiate Server Role Load Site Node Call Requirements satisfied by Network Infrastructure View Requirements satisfied by Topology View Requirements satisfied by Functional View 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 source-outgoing source-outgoing target-incoming 1 1 1 1 outgoing1-source1 target -incoming1 source outgoing target incoming target1 incoming source outgoing1 1 1 source outgoing target 


target incoming target incoming target incoming source outgoing Figure 6. EIS System Network View Meta-model operations are those used for service description and must be ultimately decomposed into elementary ones \(i.e. data processing, storing and transferring are estimated through parameter values that are propagated by service invocation parameters to parameters describing application operations constituting the service description which are further propagated to parameters describing elementary operations 4.3. EIS Architecture Design Task Implementation EIS Architecture Design tasks may be supported by existing tools [20]. Systems Modeling Language \(SysML 15] is considered as the most appropriate for EIS System Network model representation and requirement engineering, since it supports the concepts of requirements and resource allocation. As a direct consequence, SysML allows the representation of requirements as model elements which means that requirements are part of the system architecture. For representation purposes, a SysML pro?le for EIS System Network meta-model \(?gure 6 mented as a plugin to MagicDraw modeling tool [2]. In order to facilitate model exchangeability, EIS System Network model is being realized in XML, which is a standard exchangeable format. In order to exchange data with speci?c software tools, model transformations will be accomplished through appropriate XSLTs developed for each tool for example as the one transforming XMI to the EIS System Network document type description \(DTD 5. Case Study In the following we discuss the case of renovating a legacy information system supporting a large-scale public organization based on the proposed concepts. The organization supports more than 350 interconnected regional of?ces and its main purpose is to provide services to the public both citizens and businesses. Regional of?ces are divided into three categories according to their size and information infrastructure requirements \(large, medium and small More than 15.000 employees work in the organization having on-line access to the legacy system. There are more than 300 different services provided to the public, while each citizen is required to register in the one belonging to his/her residential area, called residential of?ce. Some of them require the actual presence of citizens in their residential of?ce Existing system architecture is based on a fat clientserver architecture. All application logic is programmed within the client platform, while data is distributed in local database servers located in each regional of?ce. A Central database is supported in the Datacenter for data synchronization and lookup purposes. The Datacenter and all regional of?ces participate in a private TCP/IP network to facilitate ef?cient data replication. Most data related to a speci?c citizen are maintained as local data in his/her residential of?ce. Client programs access the local database to store data, while they access the central database mostly for lookup purposes. Local data are asynchronously replicated in the central database using a transaction management system \(TMS Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 to facilitate communication with the central database. The central database provides the overall view of each citizen  s record 


record To enhance the level of services provided by the organization, we decided to establish an enhanced e-services environment through an e-government portal. The main target of the portal is to minimize the need for citizen  s presence in regional of?ces and intents to deal with all the drawbacks of the current e-service platform. It provides easy access to citizens and businesses twenty four hours per day, seven days per week. It also promotes the increase of e-services to users, facilitating the organization to accomplish its strategic goals. The portal facilitates on-line transactional services and ensures on-line access to the databases of the legacy information system Provision of transactional e-services re?ects the operation of the legacy system and thus results in its renovation. In order to effectively support both systems \(e.g the portal and the legacy system able to apply the same policies and minimize maintenance cost. Thus, it was decided to explore the renovation of the legacy information system by adopting modern technological trends, such as multi-tiered application architecture server-based computing and light clients. It was decided also to rewrite application code based on J2EE architecture to develop a web interface for the legacy information system in order to support a uni?ed environment for both the legacy system and the portal. This decision affected the legacy system architecture, described in System Network View. Some of issues raised included: \(a database architecture? It is currently distributed. Should it become centralized? What are the implications in the network infrastructure? \(b complished to minimize maintenance cost Though EA was never fully described, the organization had already decided to establish an EA based on Zachman framework a few years ago. RUPmethodology was used for software development, thus application description models were developed within Rational Rose platform. In order to be able to apply the proposed tasks identi?ed in section 4, relative information had to be extracted from the corresponding cells. Application description \(e.g. applications and modules tracted from corresponding Rational Rose ?les. Though the process was not automated, the provision of System Network meta-model, helped architecture designer to identify the information needed to obtain from software designers Detailed service description in terms of load requirements could not be extracted from software description. This was crucial in order to decide upon Intranet and Datacenter architecture. This information was collected by interviewing software developers The new system has to deal with a number of require&lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office oracle L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt tuxido L.R.O lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department tuxido Central 


tuxido Central lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt R.O. server room lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt oracle net lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt tuxido lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt application lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt Figure 7. Topology View - Existing System ments, with security and availability being the most important ones. Security issues have to do with the security of the network, security of data, authentication control, etc. Availability requirements deal with the backup subsystem, the recovery system and high availability UPS. Privacy must be enforced with the use of cryptography and compression techniques. All these requirements were identi?ed during the System Architecture design process and consequently exported in System Motivation cell where all system requirements are gathered using a simpli?ed text-based requirement description method System Architecture design tasks were performed by existing tools already described in [20]. The existence of System Network meta-model and its implementation in XML facilitated tool integration and interoperability. The identi?cation of primary EIS engineering activities served by Zachman matrix rows and columns facilitated a better understanding between software developers, architecture designers and organization management and enhanced discrete methodology integration. Existing and renovated application architecture of the legacy system de?ned by Topology View are presented in ?gures 7 and 8 respectively. The screenshots are from the MagicDraw [2] tool, enhanced with EIS pro?le to provide the appropriate functionality 6. Conclusions &amp; Future Work MB-EISE process based on Zachman framework was explored in the paper. The designer may adjust basic MB-EISE activity model for each cell, formulate a methodology-independent EIS cell-related view, and ?nally identify methods and tools appropriate for implementing each speci?c task. One could argue that in such a case, 36 distinct EIS sub-views should be de?ned, each of them being rather complex, while basic MB-EISE activity should be adjusted 36 times, resulting in a very complicated process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Central Organization Building lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Application Server lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Oracle Central database lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Medium Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Datacenter server room lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Large Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt 


lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Small Regional Office lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt L.R.O. department lt;&lt;Site&gt;&gt Organization lt;&lt;ClientProcess&gt;&gt web browser lt;&lt;ServerProcess&gt;&gt Web Server lt;&lt;UserProfile&gt;&gt officer &lt;&lt;initiate&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt lt;&lt;invoke&gt;&gt Figure 8. Topology View - Renovated System However, EIS engineering process, as enterprise architecture, is itself complex. The bene?t of the proposed approach is that all aspects \(simple or complex form and modular fashion. Cell-related sub-views and corresponding meta-models, as well as cell-related MB-EISE activity model may be progressively formed according to the designer  s priorities and perspectives Having a black-box view of each Zachman cell, the proposed approach focuses on EIS view integration and interview consistency. The notion of external entities when de?ning EIS cell-related views provides the means for interoperability with external cells, while at the same time facilitates atomicity within the limits of each cell. We are currently emphasizing Business and System rows, and especially Function and Network cells, exploring in parallel Motivation column and the way non-functional requirements are managed Having a white-box view of each Zachman cell, it is evident that the de?nition of a technology neutral metamodel and the identi?cation of basic engineering tasks, corresponding to EIS cell-related views, contributes to the integration of different methodologies and tools. A library of EIS System Network models has been already implemented in XML. Emphasis is given to requirements management and especially requirements derivation References 1] Institute For Enterprise Architecture Developments http://www.enterprise-architecture.info 2] MagicDraw UML. http://www.magicdraw.com 3] A. Aurum and C. Wohlin. Engineering and Managing Software Requirements. Springer, 2005 4] F. S. d. Boer, M. M. Bonsangue, J. Jacob, A. Stam, and L. W N. v. d. Torre. A Logical Viewpoint on Architectures. In EDOC, pages 73  83. IEEE Computer Society, 2004 5] E. R. Byrne. IEEE Standard 830: Recommended Practice for Software Requirements Speci?cations, 1998 6] B. Dave and D. Jim. The new, improved RUP SE Architecture Framework, 2005. IBM Rational Edge 7] D. J. de Villiers. Using the Zachman Framework to assess RUP. Rational Edge, 2001 8] J. A. Estefan. Survey of Model-based Systems Engineering \(MBSE May 2007 9] A. Fatolahi and F. Shams. An investigation into applying UML to the Zachman Framework. Information Systems Frontiers, 8\(2  143, 2006 10] M. Glinz. On non-functional Requirements. 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2007 11] F. Goethals, W. Lemahieu, M. Snoeck, and J. Vandenbulcke. An overview of enterprise architecture framework deliverables. In Banda RKJ \(ed Introduction. ICFAI University Press., 2006 12] H.-P. Hoffmann. Harmony-SE/SysML Deskbook: ModelBased Systems Engineering with Rhapsody, Rev. 1.51 Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 


Telelogic/I-Logix white paper. Telelogic AB, May 2006 13] IEEE. IEEE Recommended Practice for Architectural Description for Software-Intensive Systems - Std 1471. Technical report, oct 2000 14] O. M. G. Inc. UML 2.0 Superstructure Speci?cation, October 2004 15] O. M. G. Inc. Systems Modeling Language \(SYSML i?cation. Version 1.0, September 2007 16] INCOSE. INCOSE Handbook SE Process Model, September 2003. http://g2sebok.incose.org 17] Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers. IEEE Std 15288 -2004, Systems Engineering -System Life Cycle Processes, June 2005 18] A. v. Lamsweerde. Goal-Oriented Requirements Engineering: A Guided Tour. In Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Requirements Engineering \(RE  01 19] S. Leist and G. Zellner. Evaluation of current architecture frameworks. In H. Haddad, editor, SAC, pages 1546  1553 ACM, 2006 20] M. Nikolaidou and N. Alexopoulou. Enterprise Information System Engineering: A Model-Based Approach Based on the Zachman Framework. In HICSS  08. IEEE Computer Society, 2008 21] M. Nikolaidou and D. Anagnostopoulos. A systematic approach for con?guring web-based information systems Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases, 17\(3  290, May 2005 22] C. M. Pereira and P. Sousa. A method to de?ne an Enterprise Architecture using the Zachman Framework. In H. Haddad A. Omicini, R. L. Wainwright, and L. M. Liebrock, editors SAC, pages 1366  1371. ACM, 2004 23] K. Pohl and E. Sikora. Supporting the Co-Design of Requirements and Architectural Artifacts. In 15th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference \(RE  07 pages 258  261, India Habitat Center, New Delhi, 2007 24] J. Schekkerman. How to Survive in the Jungle of Enterprise Architecture Frameworks: Creating or Choosing an Enterprise Architecture Framework. Trafford, 2003 25] J. F. Sowa and J. A. Zachman. Extending and Formalizing the Framework for Information Systems Architecture. IBM Systems Journal, 31\(3  616, 1992 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





