Operationalised Business Intelligence: Knowledge Sharing with an Enterprise Ambition at the Amsterdam-Amstelland Police Department   Stijn Viaene Vlerick Leuven Gent Management School K.U.Leuven stijn.viaene@vlerick.be   Luc Lutin Vlerick Leuven Gent Management School luc.lutin@vlerick.be    Steven De Hertogh Vlerick Leuven Gent Management School steven.dehertogh@vlerick.be 
  Abstract  In this article we describe the operationalised Business Intelligence \(BI\ environment of the Amsterdam-Amstelland Police Department \(AAPD as it presented itself in the spring of 2007. We explicitly focus our attention on the organisational components that support the knowledge process flows required to align the usage of the operationalised BI instruments with their enterprise-wide goal to develop an çIntelligence Led Policingé capability We illustrate how two specific organisational innovations - the Management Information and Research department and the Information Brokers acted as go-betweens for the various levels of the 
AAPD and the effective design and use of the informational systems. To make our study concrete we highlight the use of the Early Warning System and Data Detective tool in support of their capacity management process for law enforcement activities We conclude this descriptive case study with the key building blocks of this case, and we suggest that an enterprise-wide view and knowledge-based perspective be incorporated in future research on operationalised BI environments   1  Introduction  According to the knowledge-based view of an organisation, management 
s primary task is to coordinate the integration of specialist knowledge held by different individuals or groups of individuals across the organisation, into the daily operations [16  k e y con cept in  th i s pe rs pectiv e i s t h at of th e  knowledge process flow: that is, a sequence of transformations performed by agents on knowledge artefacts in support of specific actions or decisions    Sustaining a knowledge management life cycle to 
contain and develop these knowledge process flows requires adequate assistance from organisational components and information technologies \(IT\ [6   This article focuses on a specific group of technologies and its organisational complements, i.e operationalised business intelligence BI\These complements have been playing a distinct role in efforts to further develop the knowledge process flows at the Amsterdam-Amstelland Police Department \(AAPD\scribe how the AAPD 
tried to avoid ending up with a cluttered operationalised BI setting of functionally disconnected and locally optimised information products. This paper describes the set-up of both the technical components and the organisational complements in support of the AAPD s enterprisewide Intelligence Led Policing ILP\ vision The material we present reflects what emerged as the technological and organisational keystones of the AAPD 
s ILP capabilities in the spring of 2007. The data for this case study came from a series of semistructured interviews with police officers at different levels in the AAPD. The results of these interviews were triangulated with data from direct observations internal reports and the AAPD s intranet  Our article aims to contribute to existing literature in the following ways. First, although we have encountered some first-person accounts and position articles on topics related to operationalised BI in nonspecialist literature [15, 22 ic  
research exists that provides an insight into the full breadth of an operationalised BI setting. By framing the Management Information and Research unit MIR\ a business intelligence competency centre  BICC\ and introducing the Information Brokers role we aim to contribute to a knowledge-based view of operationalising BI. Second, the same holds for ILP While ILP has been around for about 15 years, apart Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


from a couple of notable contributions [8, 24  academic research on ILP in the information sciences domain remains scarce. Therefore, this article also aims to contribute to building the body of knowledge on how ILP is enacted in a real-life setting The article is structured as follows. The first section elaborates on the concept of operationalised BI. This is followed by an introduction to the ILP philosophy and its instantiation into four guiding principles for an ILP decision-making process. We then present the case study at the AAPD. After a short description of the AAPD and its context, we discuss the enterprise data warehouse, the MIR, and the Information Broker role. We then illustrate how it all came together by describing how two operationalised intelligence tools are used in the capacity management process for law enforcement activities such as preventive patrolling and maintaining the capacity for rapid interventions in case of reported crimes. We conclude the paper with a summary and discussion of the case by highlighting the key building blocks of the AAPD s set-up and by making suggestions for future research  2  Operationalised BI  Roughly speaking, BI technologies have evolved through three generations th e earl y 1970s  decision support systems were application-centric Data was used to support only a single application or perhaps a few related applications. The second generation of technologies, the data warehouses appeared in the 1980s. These were more data-centric and they could feed various applications. Around the turn of the century, a third generation of technologies emerged. No longer limited to understanding past events, these technologies were also designed to anticipate what was likely to happen in the future Although these technological capabilities have now been around for some time, finding the most appropriate ways to leverage them for business success remains an issue for a significant number of organisations This issue is compounded by the fact that many organisations find themselves confronted with the rapidly changing nature of operating and competing in a globalised economy. Many feel that these pressures require them to develop more decisionmaking agility. For them, the possibilities of realtime data delivery and analysis have become increasingly promising [19, 20  The application of BI technologies has often been confined to support a limited group of back-office analysts or a very small fraction of top-level decision makers. The notion of operationalised BI tries to break away from this limited view of the business potential of BI technologi  Operationalised BI refers to an organisation s ambition and ability to provide BI capabilities to as many of its constituents as possible. This means putting the most suitable systems and applications in the hands of operational decision makers, as well as top-level managers and experts, so they can all benefit from access to relevant and accurate information at the right level of detail, and at the right time. This idea is echoed in slogans such as BI for the masses and pervasive BI  Operationalising BI is certain to engage an organisation in an arduous journey. It is not easy to get to a point where the use of BI is inextricably linked to the daily activities of decision makers within and across all levels of the organisation [4, 13   But the potential benefits of succeeding in this effort are high. Several organisations are already successfully leveraging their analytical capabilities as a distinctive source of competitive advantage. These are the so-called analytics compe  Still, to follow their example, an organisation will need to surmount the challenges of having a disconnected collection of locally optimised instances of BI that may have cropped up over the past several years  The AAPD decided to use operationalised BI in support of their enterprise management philosophy Intelligence Led Policing  3  Intelligence Led Policing  Policing is a knowledge-intensive affair over the past fifteen years, voices have risen to make a shift away from the traditionally more reactive intuition-led style of policing to a more proactive and intelligence-led approach  Intelligence Led Policing \(ILP\ promotes the use of factual and integrated information and evidencebased analyses on which to base management direction and guide police actions at all levels of a police organisation. This does not mean replacing intuition-led police actions, but rather to complement them with information coming from analyses on aggregated operational data, such as reported crime figures and characteristics ILP requires an integration of technologies and processes to organise, formalise and distribute relevant information for police officers in their efforts to reduce crime. However, the ILP philosophy does not elaborate on the practical roll-out of such a Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


setting. Therefore, the AAPD based itself on a related framework called Compstat to steer their efforts Developed at the New York Police Department in 1994 o m p s t a t i s a g o alo riented, s t rate g i c  management process combining IT, operational strategy, and managerial accountability to guide police operations a s served to instantiate ILP and has been an example to many other police departments all over the world Four guiding principles summarise the cornerstones of Compstat [23, 33, 41  1  Information availability. Accurate and timely information on crime facts and perpetrators is to be made available at all levels in the police force \(e.g. on corps level, district level and neighbourhood level 2  Actionable information. Co i n e s  actionable intelligence as the capability to determine the most effective tactics \(e.g patrolling a certain area\le specific problems \(e.g. a crime wave in a specific neighbourhood\rom what is delivered by the available information products 3  Swiftness of reaction. A sense of urgency is very specific to the context of policing Therefore, officers at different levels in the police force must be able to swiftly roll out a target deployment of the available resources based on readily available information 4  Feedback and learning. Closing the loop on the decisions made through relentless follow-up and assessment can make the first three principles more effective  ILP can also be generally understood as an instance of an enterprise performance management framework, such as the Balanced Scorecard but designed specifically for policing. Typically, an enterprise management framework stresses the following management features, all of which are present in the ILP/Compstat principles: \(1\he use of metrics to guide decision making; \(2\e use of a balanced set of metrics, i.e. reflecting the extensive span of business objectives rather than only financials; \(3\e right time delivery of actionable management information; \(4\ horizontally integrated enterprise management, i.e. cutting across functional and other organisational silos; \(5\ertically integrated enterprise management, i.e. linking strategy formulation to operational execution; and \(6 closed-loop management, i.e. emphasising continuous improvement and double-loop learning     4  The AAPD Case Study  The Amsterdam-Amstelland Police Department AAPD\ers the municipalities of Aalsmeer Amsterdam, Amstelveen, Diemen, Uithoorn and Ouder-Amstel in The Netherlands. This region stretches across 357 square kilometres and has a population of 900,000 citizens. It is divided into 5 districts and has 32 neighbourhood police teams that serve a total of 211 neighbourhoods. The AAPD has 5,800 officers and an annual budget of 394 million euro 1  The two core processes of the AAPD are \(a\w enforcement and \(b\minal investigations. The first focuses on the daily policing tasks: i.e. keeping public order, and protecting lives and property through preventive patrolling and rapid interventions Criminal investigations, on the other hand, involve detectives solving a reported crime. The AAPD is organised along the boundaries of these core processes, with only a limited overlap between the two. This article concerns research on the law enforcement activities It all started when an audit report appeared shortly after the appointment of a new Chief of Police in November 2004. The report proposed the ILP philosophy to transform the AAPD into a more efficient and effective police department within and across its three levels: corps management, district management and neighbourhood management  The AAPD already had some reporting tools available \(e.g. on crime trends\t they were rather disconnected from each other. They did not contribute to any coordinated and shared overarching police goal, nor were they supported by enterprisewide organisational structures, roles and processes, or common data definitions However, the goals for ILP were clearly connected to enterprise-wide knowledge sharing and operationalised BI. This is illustrated by how the ILP philosophy envisaged efficient and effective policing and by its adherence to the Compstat principles Efficient policing alluded to the availability of information products \(i.e. tools or reports\e smooth flow of information, and exchange of experiences among the various hierarchical levels Effective policing referred to improving public safety by anticipating prioritised crime based on easily accessible facts and figures, providing information to all levels of decision making, and embedding the knowledge in the whole organisation   1  For more information on the AAPD, please visit their website http://www.politie-amsterdam-amstelland.nl  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


Figure 1. Most important law enforcement knowledge flows  Consequently, the AAPD installed the required technical and organisational components \(see Figure 1\data warehouse, the Management Information and Research team, the Information Broker roles, and information products such as the Early Warning System and Data Detective tools  4.1. The Data Warehouse: Enterprise Platform for Execution  A data warehouse is a subject-oriented integrated, time-variant and non-volatile collection of data in support of decision making h e dat a  warehouse typically feeds dependent data marts which have a narrower scope to enable faster processing when transforming data into actionable information for different decision support tools [1   A data warehouse had to enable the AAPD to operationalise their BI and work on connecting all partners in the chain of contacts This chain of contacts refers to the set of a \(potential\uspect s interactions as he/she moves through the policing and judicial processes. This chain includes, for example police officers, courts of justice, and the prison system Data and information systems across multiple justice and policing functions in the Netherlands have been notoriously disconnected from each other, as they have been in many other countries as well Without the necessary data integration, the AAPD would not be able to get to a single version of the truth The AAPD understood that it needed an enterprise platform for execution. The potentially relevant data sources were located with different partners in the chain of contacts. There were already some data marts and relational databases combining operational data to serve specific subject areas of police decision making. However, these data sources were not systematically reconciled into a single data warehouse. This gave rise to challenges such as poor data quality, lack of a standard naming convention inconsistent meta-data, incompatible data structures missing connections, or conflicts about data ownership The AAPD chose not to go for building the ultimate data warehouse before anyone could use it  Instead, they opted to work in small, discrete phases to guarantee the continuation of law enforcement operational processes. This pragmatism allowed them to rapidly iterate between the build phase and the run phase, supporting real-time decision making With a new data warehouse and architecture in place, the AAPD had a single and integrated version of the truth regarding crime and perpetrators. This enabled the AAPD to start the deployment and support of timely and actionable information products  4.2. Management Information and Research  A pivotal organisational innovation in the ILP roll-out was the Management Information and Research \(MIR\it. Its mission statement read as follows The MIR supports developing, generating and evaluating management policies by providing management information and research results  The MIR acted as a centre of excellence in knowledge sharing at the AAPD. It functioned as the enterprise-wide authority overseeing management information support and assumed many of the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


responsibilities of what Gartner 2 calls a BI Competency Centre \(BICC\ [12    A BICC is often defined as a cross-functional team with specific tasks, roles, responsibilities and processes for supporting and promoting the effectiveness of BI. The MIR essentially took up five roles [2, 12  First, it took care of all BI-related education and training. Promoting and rewarding the consistent use of these information products throughout the organisation was also an important objective Second, it performed enterprise project management tasks. This included overseeing the process for intake and prioritisation of BI projects, as well as enabling user-supported requirements analysis, prototyping and pilot testing. The MIR also took care of the development, roll-out and subsequent support of information products, often by bringing in externally sourced help Third, the MIR acted as a data steward. Important issues were the management of the meta-data and the quality of the data input Fourth, the MIR was also available to address very specific ad hoc information requests that required, for example, the application of advanced analytical techniques. The MIR s expert analysts would then prioritise and handle these information requests Fifth, the MIR maintained and further developed the enterprise data warehouse architecture, linking different sources into data marts, which in turn were connected to engines for analytics and reporting  4.3. Information Brokerage  A second organisational role was that of the Information Brokers, also known as business-IT hybrids t h e AA PD In f o r m at i o n Brok ers were sourced largely from within the police force to liaise, orchestrate and facilitate communication between different stakeholders. These officers had knowledge of both policing and information management Pawlowski and Robey ttribu t e In f o r m ation Brokers a facilitating role in the knowledge process flow concerning IT and business practices across the boundaries that separate work units within organisations. Here is the Information Broker s role in a nutshell 1  Information Brokers are mandated to cross the boundaries, share information and leverage resources   2  For more information on Gartner, please visit their website http://www.gartner.com  2  Through a wider view of the business activities, the Information Broker surfaces and challenges assumptions, stimulates reflection, and assesses the impact of suggested change on the organisation 3  Information Brokers are able to reframe explain and clarify information. Information Brokers also help bridge the gap between business groups \(e.g. police officers\ and the IT department \(e.g. MIR 4  End user involvement, sponsorship and commitment are essential to project success Here, the role of the Information Broker is to liaise between the various actors and pursue goal congruence  The AAPD had about 20 Information Brokers whose role was similar to that of a business analyst  in many organisations. They were supposed to stay close to the officers at the different levels through personal contacts and presence in management meetings First, Information Brokers helped superior officers translate strategy and communicate decisions to their subordinates. For example, performance against corps management s priorities were systematically updated and tracked in all reports This enabled quicker reactions to limit discrepancies between observed and anticipated crime trends In addition, Information Brokers helped consolidate the feedback from the lower level officers and send it back up the line. By being present at meetings and steering committees all over the AAPD Information Brokers could help lower levels to direct the attention of higher level police management towards emerging hot spots or deviations from the projections   Furthermore, Information Brokers were responsible for picking up the semi-structured and unstructured requests for potential information products and relay them to the MIR. They would assist in further fleshing out the requests, and, once the information products had been developed, they would help colleagues interpret, improve and work with the historical and anticipated crime facts that would be reported In this way, they played a central role in lubricating the channels of enterprise-wide knowledge sharing and development with respect to the use of the operationalised BI capabilities     Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


 Figure 2. Components of the police management processes at the AAPD \(based on Eckerson, 2006   4.4. Two information products for capacity management: ILP in action  During our interviews, police officers across the organisation confirmed that capacity management was one of their most challenging, yet critical responsibilities within the law enforcement pillar of the AAPD Capacity management refers to determining which and how many police resources need to be made available in what parts of the AAPD region and when In the past, these decisions \(made at all three sublevels of the AAPD\ad been based on perceptions of past experiences and seasonal crime trends held by senior and less senior officers, in combination with local ambitions and sensitivities In line with the ILP goals, the AAPD developed a capability for integrated, reliable and actionable intelligence to support the capacity management decisions. This would integrate the different levels and support a rapid, flexible and focused deployment of the available policing capacity towards the areas and types of crime that needed them the most Two information products the Early Warning System and the Data Detective tool illustrate how the different components \(both the technical and the organisational components\ worked together to support ILP at the AAPD Figure 2 shows how these two key applications connect different aspects of police decision making as a performance management problem. The MIR and the Information Brokers are located on the knowledge-sharing arrows between the different performance management activities Technically, on top of the enterprise data warehouse, the MIR had installed an automated information processing cap ability, called the Early Warning System. The system collected data from different historical crime report repositories and kept a record of how current crime rates were running against the projected figures based on a\istorical data and b\he objectives set by the different decision-making levels. The outputs of the Early Warning System were indicators that highlighted significant deviations from the projected figures. As shown in Figure 2, the system s main function was monitoring, though it could also be used for deeper analyses by navigating through the data of the different levels The Data Detective tool had more detailed analysis and reporting capabilities \(see Figure 2 fact replaced the local manual work of the so-called dotters Dotters were police officers who would locate reported crimes on large printed maps by means of dots and thumbnails. The Data Detective tool would do the same, but: a\t was based on integrated data across the different levels, and b presented the information by means of visually enriched data navigation and deep analysis functionalities. It pinpointed the main crime hot spots on a map to inform resourcing decisions. For example, through this tool the officers could drill down in the data to identify travelling burglary gang activities Organisationally, the MIR and Information Brokers supported the knowledge flows between the different activities For example, the MIR took care of automating the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


information flows, distributing scorecards and notifications via the intranet to the different decision makers in the organisation. As for the Data Detective tool with its advanced analytical functionalities, a number of expert analysts within the MIR made the necessary analyses. In addition to answering ad hoc information requests, a monthly report summarising the most frequent questions was made available via the intranet. Next to sharing the information, the MIR kept the tools relevant and attractive to users The Information Brokers would sit in on corps district, and neighbourhood capacity management meetings to: a\ick up on new informational needs b\elp with the interpretation of the designed reports and c\mmunicate common or contradicting capacity management trends between the levels  5  Summary and Discussion   By installing both BI technology and its organisational complements, the AAPD built, and stimulated the continuous improvement of, an operationalised BI environment in support of their ILP vision. The following four building blocks were crucial in their approach [based on 9, 10, 36  First of all, adequate attention was given to the data foundation. The value of, for example, standard naming conventions, a normalised data structure clear-cut meta-data, superior data quality and unambiguous data ownership across the chain of contacts cannot be overestimated. This responsibility was allotted to the MIR, who functions as a BICC, a centre of excellence for information management practices at the AAPD Second, it was insightful to promote a culture where data would be regarded as a corporate asset. At the AAPD, the new Chief of Police clearly subscribed to the ILP philosophy to complement intuition-led policing with facts and figures on crime Third, the role of the Information Brokers was essential in managing the knowledge flows at the AAPD and acting as the go-between linking the different levels in the organisation Finally, the success of the information products such as Early Warning and Data Detective, depended on constantly creating, evolving and recreating the fit between the technological capabilities, the organisational needs and the existing organisational capabilities. The MIR and the Information Brokers played a pivotal role in effectuating this dynamic state of business-IT alignment Still, apart from describing a working operationalised BI and ILP setting, we also wish to take a first step in filling a perceived gap in academic research into ILP and operationalised BI systems in practice. Generally speaking, the operationalised BI/ILP environment at the AAPD can be described by using established information science theory For example, Markus and Robey tin gu i s h three basic perspectives on the interaction between the organisation, individuals and technology: the technological imperative, the organisational imperative, and the emergent perspective. This case study clearly fits within the third perspective. The emergent perspective holds that the uses and consequences of IT emerge unpredictably from complex social interactions In this case, neither technology nor the organisation in itself provided the impetus to drive ILP within the AAPD Moreover, in accordance with Orlikowski the case also illustrates how the AAPD sustained the evolution of the system by supporting a redefinition and modification of the meaning, properties and applications of technology after initial development The maturity of the technology i.e. that of the data warehouse as well as that of the information products is then an ever-evolving state Still, we believe that two comments in connection with the particular nature of BI systems need to be made. That is, BI is a system whose goal is more of an informational nature, i.e. to deliver better information to constituents. This contrasts with systems that are more of a transactional nature, i.e designed to automate standard processes and series of actions We believe that, from an information science perspective, understanding such informational initiatives like ILP and, by extension, operationalised BI can benefit from framing them in: a\ enterprisewide view of the systems and systems goals, and b\ a knowledge-based perspective on business-IT alignment First, during our interviews, the MIR staff members and the Information Brokers regularly emphasised the difficulty of striking a delicate balance between the enterprise-wide need for integration and the immediate operational information needs of individual officers. Still, the AAPD seemed to be managing quite well with their enterprise-wide performance management vision, in this case ILP, supported by top management and cascaded by MIR and Information Broker functions There appears to be a risk for organisations that develop an operational BI environment incrementally While there are the so-called maturity models published in popular literature \(e.g. the information evolution model by Davis et al. [1  w ith t h e  exception of Watson ic  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


attention has been given to the organisational evolution of such an environment. More specifically not much emphasis has been placed on the practices of realising the essential enterprise-wide intentions that are embedded in the technical capabilities of the BI system \(e.g. data integration, information sharing etc The AAPD showed how an enterprise performance management philosophy such as ILP could form a unifying theme under which operationalised BI capabilities were developed sustained and integrated through an enterprise-wide network of connected technical components and shared organisational processes and go-betweens Consequently, we contend that research into operationalising BI should not be blinded by enterprise goals, by remaining all too functionally oriented in its applications or by focusing on the masses rather than the enterprise. We therefore believe it necessary for current theories and definitions positioning operationalising BI to target better enterprise management as their aim Secondly, the informational nature of the system makes it especially well-suited for knowledge-based investigations into the combination of organisational and technical components that surround the enactment of the system For example, Nissen et al tin g u ish sharing from non-sharing knowledge management activities. The former implies organising, formalising and distributing knowledge \(e.g. by codifying project management best practices in a manual\he latter entails creating, applying and evolving knowledge e.g. setting up cross-functional working groups to tackle specific problems At the AAPD, the MIR \(as a BICC\ and the Information Brokers played important roles in both sharing and non-sharing knowledge management activities. For example, to enable correct interpretation of the data and to stimulate self-help the MIR held training and education sessions \(a sharing knowledge management activity\. But it was also the task of both the Information Brokers and the MIR to safeguard the fact that the information products were designed for user-friendly reporting such as displaying geographically referenced information \(rather a non-sharing activity\oting Bush information does not become knowledge until the receiver understands what it is they are receiving      6  Conclusion  This paper has offered a descriptive account of the set-up of the AAPD s operationalised BI environment for ILP as it presented itself in the spring of 2007. As illustrated through the capacity management example, they had built an environment where police officers at the different decision-making levels could use fact-based, integrated and aligned intelligence as a complement to their intuition Although this paper is essentially descriptive in nature, we believe that two suggestions can be made to guide future research into operationalised BI environments First of all, the AAPD s approach contrasts with merely pursuing locally optimised operationalised BI tooling efforts for lower-level employees. Secondly this paper also suggests a path for possible academic research by applying knowledge-based techniques to these specific informational contexts Therefore, we believe in the further application of knowledge-based perspectives to settings with operationalised BI ambitions. For example, while the BICC has been taken up as a concept by vendors consultants and the like \(e.g. Miller et al  academic research into the "what" and the "how of specific organisational mechanisms that can serve as catalysts for executing on the informational promises will prove instrumental This paper is only a small step along the way, as it is descriptive and based on a rich but single case study of a specific situation. Still, given the increasing popularity in the market for operational BI technologies, we foresee the relevancy of research on this topic growing only greater in future  Acknowledgements  This research was supported by Vlerick Leuven Gent Management School s Chartered Research Programme on Business Intelligence. We would like to thank the supporting member companies Belgacom Group, KBC Group, the AmsterdamAmstelland Police Department, Volvo and VRT Finally, we would like to express our most sincere thanks to all the people at the AAPD that freed up their time to contribute to this study Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


References  1  H. Baars, and H.-G. Kemper Management Support with Structured and Unstructured Data - An Integrated Business Intelligence Framework Information Systems Management, Vol. 24, No. 2, 2008, pp. 132148 2  J. Bruno Facilitating knowledge flow through the enterprise International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting Finance & Management, Vol 11, No. 1, 2002, pp. 1 - 8 3  A.P. Bush, D. Richards, and C.N.G. Dampney The graphical interpretation of plausible tacit knowledge flows Proceedings of the Asia-Pacific symposium on Information visualization, Vol. 24, 2003, pp. 37 - 46 4  T.A. Carte, A.B. Schwarzkopf, T.M. Shaft, and R.W Zmud Advanced Business Intelligence at Cardinal Health MIS Quarterly Executive, Vol. 4, No. 4 2005, pp. 413 - 424 5  J.O. Chan A Conceptual Model for OperationsAnalytics Convergence The Journal of American Academy of Business, Cambridge, Vol. 8, No. 1 2006, pp. 48 - 54 6  W.F. Cody, J.T. Kreulen, V. Krishna, and W.S Spangler The integration of business intelligence and knowledge management IBM Systems Journal, Vol 41, No. 4, 2002, pp. 697 - 713 7  P.M. Collier Policing and the Intelligent Application of Knowledge Public Money & Management, Vol 26, No. 2, 2006, pp. 109 - 116 8  P.M. Collier, J.S. Edwards, and D. Shaw Communicating knowledge about police performance International Journal of Productivity Performance Management, Vol. 53, No. 5, 2004, pp 458 - 467 9  T.H. Davenport Competing on Analytics Harvard Business Review, Vol. 84, No. 1, 2006, pp. 98 - 107 10  Davenport, T.H., and K. Prusak, Working Knowledge How Organizations Manage What They Know Harvard Business School Press Books, Boston, MA 1997 11  Davis, J., G.J. Miller and, A. Russell, Information Revolution: Using the Information Evolution Model to Grow Your Business, John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken NJ, 2006 12  H.J. Dresner, F. Buytendijk, A. Linden, T. Friedman K.H. Strange, M. Knox, and M. Camm The Business Intelligence Competency Center: An Essential Business Strategy Gartner Research, Gartner, 2002 13  W.W. Eckerson Best Practices in Operational BI Converging Analytical and Operational Processes  TDWI Best Practices Report, TDWI, 2007 14  Eckerson, W.W Performance dashboards Measuring, Monitoring, and Managing Your Business John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, NJ, 2006 15  A. Gonsalves Operational BI: The Evolution Of Business Intelligence Intelligent Enterprise, Vol. 10 No. 8, 2007, pp. 22 - 22 16  R.M. Grant Toward a knowledge-based theory of the firm Strategic Management Journal, Vol. 17, 1996 pp. 109 - 122 17  Inmon, B Building the Data Warehouse John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1992 18  G. Lawton Making Business Intelligence More Useful IEEE Computer, Vol. 39, No. 9, 2006, pp. 14 16 19  C.H. Li ERP packages: What's next Information Systems Management, Vol. 16, No. 3, 1999, pp. 3135 20  A. Marjanovic The Next Stage of Operational Business Intelligence: Creating New Challenges for Business Process Management Proceedings of the Fortieth Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(CD-ROM\anuary 3 - 6, 2007 Computer Society Press, 2007 \(10 pages 21  M.L. Markus, and D. Robey Information technology and organizational change: causal structure in theory and research Management Science, Vol. 34, No. 5 1988, pp. 583 - 598 22  J. McAdams What's next: Business Intelligence  Computerworld, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2006, pp. 24 - 26 23  P.P. McDonald Implementing CompStat: Critical Points to Consider The Police Chief, Vol. 71, No. 1 2004, pp. 33 - 37 24  E.F. McGarrell, J.D. Freilich, and S. Chermak Intelligence-Led Policing As a Framework for Responding to Terrorism Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice, Vol. 23, No. 2, 2007, pp. 142 - 158 25  Miller, G.J., D. Br‰utigam, and S.V. Gerlach, Business Intelligence Competency Centers: A Team Approach to Maximizing Competitive Advantage, John Wiley Sons, Hoboken, NJ, 2006 26  Newman, B., Agents, Artifacts, and Transformations The Foundations of Knowledge Flows \(chapter 15\. In Holsapple, C.W. \(Ed.\andbook on Knowledge Management 1: Knowledge Matters, Springer Germany, 2003 27  M.E. Nissen, M.N. Kamel, and K.C. Sengupta A Framework for Integrating Knowledge Process and System Design Information Strategy: The Executive s Journal, Vol. 16, No. 4, 2000, pp. 17 - 26 28  M.E. Nissen Dynamic Knowledge Patterns to Inform Design: A Field Study of Knowledge Stocks and Flows in an Extreme Organization Journal of Management Information Systems, Vol. 22, No. 3 2005, pp. 225 - 263 29  W.J. Orlikowski Using Technology and Constituting Structures: A Practice Lens for Studying Technology in Organizations Organization Science, Vol. 11, No 4, 2000, pp. 404 - 428 30  S.D. Pawlowski, and D. Robey Bridging user organizations: knowledge brokering and the work of information technology MIS Quarterly, Vol. 28, No 4, 2004, pp. 645 - 672 31  S. Viaene, and J. Willems Corporate Performance Management: Beyond Dashboards and Scorecards  Journal of Performance Management, Vol. 20, No. 1 2007, pp. 13 - 32 32  B. Violino BI for the Masses Computerworld, Vol 38, No. 25, 2004, pp. 38 - 39 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


33  W.F. Walsh, and G.F. Vito The Meaning of Compstat Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice Vol. 20, No. 1, 2004, pp. 51 - 69 34  H.J. Watson, and B.H. Wixom The Current State of Business Intelligence IEEE Computer, Vol. 40, No 9, 2007, pp. 96 - 99 35  H.J. Watson, B.H. Wixom, J.A. Hoffer, R. AndersonLehman, and A.M. Reynolds Real-time business intelligence: Best practices at Continental Airlines  Information Systems Management, Vol. 23, No. 1 2006, pp. 7 - 18 36  B.H. Wixom, H.J. Watson, A.M. Reynolds, and J.A Hoffer Continental Airlines Continues to Soar with Business Intelligence Information Systems Management, Vol. 25, No. 2, 2008, pp. 102 - 112 37  Weil, P., and M. Broadbent, Leveraging the New Infrastructure: How market leaders capitalize on IT Harvard Business School Press, Boston, MA, 1998 38  J. Weir A Web/Business Intelligence Solution  Information Systems Management, Vol. 17, No. 1 2000, pp. 41 - 46 39  D. Weisburd, S.D. Mastrofski, R. Greenspan, and J.J Willis The Growth of Compstat in American Policing Police Foundation Reports, The Police Foundation, Washington, 2004 40  Welten, B Politie in Ontwikkeling Drukkerij van Gerwen s-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands, 2004 41  J.J. Willis, S.D. Mastrofski, and D. Weisburd Making Sense of Compstat: A Theory-Based Analysis of Organizational Change in Three Police Departments Law & Society Review, Vol. 41, No. 1 2007, pp. 147 - 184 42  Yin, R.K Case Study Research: Design and Methods Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA 1994 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


not open CB1304 needs to be maintained Mar 01, 2007 00:00:01.100 Relay issues trip signal to CB1305 CB1305 is already open None Mar 01, 2007 00:00:01.517 CB0601 opens. \(None Mar 01, 2007 00:00:01.500 Relay issues trip signal to CB1301 None Additional Information From SAP Mar 01, 2007 00:00:01.008 CB1301 opens. \(None  It can be seen that the proposed alarm processor successfully explained to the dispatcher that over current condition appeared on branch 0602-1305 and the branch was disconnected by relays. It also pointed out that CB1304 did not open successfully to disconnect the branch and maintenance of CB1304 is recommended   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 4.4 Deployment Strategy The two-level alarm processor works on a simulated power system using ATP. Although a real-world implementation is yet to be developed, the applicability issue of the proposed method has been taken into consideration z Data Availability Nowadays, more and more IEDs are being installed in the substations. Besides performing their designed functions, these IEDs often record data that can be used for other monitoring and control purposes. For instance an IED may be capable of recording event reports and analog and binary values similar to disturbance recorders and making it available in real-time z Time Response Issue Although the two-level alarm processing structure incurs delay in analysis due to the need of IED data retrieval and telecommunication, the length of delay is usually still acceptable. The initiation command of SAP and the data transmission of SAP results back to the control center are expected to take only a few seconds. While waiting for the results from SAPs, the EMS-level Alarm Processor \(EAP preliminary analysis results done at the EMS level on time-sensitive alarms. After the SAP results arrive they may replace the original simple alarms with a single one that gives the consolidated information on what happened The most important difference of the proposed alarm processor from the existing ones is its idea of looking into substation IED data to support additional 


into substation IED data to support additional reasoning. Most existing alarm processors use different approaches to suppress the number of alarms prompted to the dispatcher and analyze the sequence of events based on the information available in the alarm messages. Although many alarms are recorded in the control center during an event, they are usually received independently from different measuring devices and the correlation of different alarms to a specific event often imposes a hard task. This can be easily overcome by providing GPS synchronization at the source of data, which makes correlating the alarms to the originating event quite easy [26]. By creating a two-level analysis structure and using the substation IED data as a source of information, the analysis becomes much efficient, mainly because the additional amount of information available  5. Conclusions  This paper firstly reviews the existing research on Intelligent Alarm Processing, and points out the disadvantages on the conventional approaches. They mostly rely on direct representation of raw alarm points which becomes overwhelming to observe and interpret when operating the system under stressed conditions This requires implementing new alarm processor to help the operator deal with the tremendous amount alarms by effectively converting raw data to useful information. Two novel Intelligent Alarm     Processing options are proposed to illustrate the new possibilities coming from integrating operational and nonoperational data in real time The FRPN diagnosis model is analogous to an expert system whose rule-base is separated from its inference engine, which can be built in advance based on power system and protection system configurations and stored in files. In such a way, the FRPN models can be easily modified according to the changes of input data as well as power system and protection system configuration This solution uses primarily SCADA data and does not need detailed data from substation IEDs except trip and logic operand information from protective relays In the second proposed approach, two-level processing structure includes Energy Management EMS SAS solutions. The SAS-level alarm processor uses measurement data that are only available within the substation and is capable of recognizing the nature of disturbance in the substation. More detailed analysis functions can be finished in reasonable time by converting data into information at the data source. The dispatchers are prompted with more useful and distilled information, including suggested actions to be taken  6. Acknowledgements  The authors wish to acknowledge contribution of ERCOT personnel, Mr. Bill Bojorquez, Mr. John Adams, Mr. Roy McCoy and Mr. Chad Thompson., as well as Mr. Carlos Gonzalez-Perez who is no longer with ERCOT. Special recognition for the work reported in this paper is due to the former graduate students Dr Xu Luo and Dr. Yang Wu who worked on the initial development of the FRPN and two-level approach respectively  7. References 1]  D. Allen, A. Apostolov and D. Kreiss  Automated analysis of power system events  IEEE Power &amp Energy Magazine, pp. 48-55, Sept./Oct. 2005  


 2] D. Durocher  Language: An expert system for alarm processing  present at the Eleventh Biennial IEEE workshop on Power Systems Control Centers, Montreal PQ, Canada, Sept. 19-21, 1990  3] Luo, X.; Kezunovic, M., "Implementing fuzzy reasoning Petri nets for fault section estimation," IEEE Trans Power Delivery, vol.23, no.2, pp.676-685, April 2008  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 4] J. Giarratono and G. Riley, Expert Systems: Principles and Programming, 2nd ed. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing Company, 1994  5] John Yen, Reza Langari  Fuzzy logic: intelligence control and information  Upper Saddle River, NJ Prentice Hall, c1999  6] Y. Wu, M. Kezunovic  An advanced alarm processor using two-level processing structure  Power Tech, 2007 IEEE Lausanne, pp: 125-130, July 2007  7] D.S. Kirschen and B.F. Wollenberg  Intelligent alarm processing in power systems  Proceedings of the IEEE vol. 80, no. 5, pp. 663-672, May 1992  8] M. Pfau-Wagenbauer and W. Nejdl  Integrating modelbased and heuristic features in a real-time expert system  IEEE Expert, pp. 12-18, August 1993  9]   A. A. Girgis and M. B. Johns  A hybrid expert system for faulted section identification, fault type classification and selection of fault location algorithms  IEEE Trans Power Delivery, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 978-985, April 1989  10] Y.L. Zhu, Y.H. Yang, B.W. Hogg, W.Q. Zhang, and S Gao  An expert system for power systems fault analysis  IEEE Trans. Power Systems, vol. 9, no. 1, pp 503-509, February 1994  11] E. M. Vazquez, O. L. M. Chacon, and H.J.F. Altuve  An on-line expert system for fault section diagnosis in power systems  IEEE Trans. Power Systems, Vol. 17 no. 2, pp. 439-444, May 2002  12] Y. C. Huang  Fault section estimation in power systems using a novel decision support system  IEEE Trans Power Systems, vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 439-444, May 2002  13] H. J. Cho and J. K. Park  An expert system for fault section diagnosis of power systems using fuzzy relations  IEEE Trans. Power Systems, vol. 12, no. 1 pp. 342-348, February 1997  14] W. H. Chen, C. W. Liu, and M. S. Tsai  On-line fault diagnosis of distribution substations using hybrid causeeffect network and fuzzy rule-based method  IEEE Trans. Power Delivery, vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 710-717, April 2000  15] K. L. Lo, H. S. Ng, and J. Trecat  Power systems fault diagnosis using Petri nets  IEE Proc. Generation Transmission and Distribution, vol. 144, no. 3, pp. 231  236, May 1997  16] K. L. Lo, H. S. Ng, D. M. Grant, and J. Trecat  Extended Petri-net models for fault diagnosis for 


 Extended Petri-net models for fault diagnosis for substation automation  IEE Proc. Generation Transmission and Distribution, vol. 146, no. 3, pp. 229  234, May 1999  17] A. A. E. Fergany, M. T. Yousef, and A. A. E. Alaily  Fault diagnosis of power systems using binary information of breakers and relays through DPNs  in Proc. International Conference on Power System Technology - PowerCon, vol. 2, Kunming, China October 2002, pp. 1122  1126  18] H. Ren, Z. Q. Mi, H. S. Zhao, and Q. X. Yang  Fault diagnosis for substation automation based on Petri nets and coding theory  in Proc. IEEE Power Engineering Society General Meeting, vol. 1, Denver, CO, June 2004 pp. 1038  1042  19] S. M. Chen, J. S. Ke, and J. F. Chang  Knowledge representation using fuzzy Petri nets  IEEE Trans Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 2, no. 3, pp 311  319, September 1990  20] T. V. Manoj, J. Leena, and R. B. Soney  Knowledge representation using fuzzy petri nets c revisited  IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Eng., vol. 4, no. 10, pp 666  667, July 1998  21] M. M. Gao, M. C. Zhou, X. G. Huang, and Z. M. Wu  Fuzzy reasoning Petri nets  IEEE Trans. Systems Man and Cybernetics, Part A, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 314  324, May 2003  22] M. Kezunovic, Yufan Guan  Intelligent Alarm Processor  ERCOT Project Final Report, TEES, Mar 2008  23] J. Sun, S.Y. Qin, and Y.H. Song  Fault diagnosis of electric power systems based on fuzzy Petri nets  IEEE Trans. Power Systems, vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 2053-2059 November 2004  24] M. Kezunovic, G. Latisko  Requirements specification for and evaluation of an automated substation monitoring System  CIGRE Meeting, Calgary, Canada September 2005  25] M. Kezunovic  Data integration and information exchange for enhanced control and protection of power systems  Proceedings of the 36th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2003  26] M. Kezunovic, B. Perunicic  Automated transmission line fault analysis using synchronized sampling at two ends  IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, 1996  27] L. Prikler and H. K. H  idalen. ATPDraw Version 3.5 for Windows 9x/NT/2000/XP Users' Manual INTEF/EFI, Trondheim, Norway, Oct. 2002  28] IEEE Std C37.111-1999, IEEE standard Common Format for Transient Data Exchange \(COMTRADE power systems, Power Systems Relay Committee of the IEEE Power Engineering Society, USA, 1999  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 pre></body></html 


pp. 202, 2008 19] C. Kaylor, R. Deshazo, and D. Van Eck, "Gauging EGovernment: A Report on Implementing Services among American Cities," Government Information Quarterly, vol 18, pp. 293-307, 2002 20] C. H. Kaylor, "The Next Wave of e-Government: The Challenges of Data Architecture," Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, vol. 31 pp. 18-22, 2005 21] R. Klischewski and H. J. Scholl, "Information Quality as the Capstone of E-Government Integration, Interoperation and Information Sharing," Electronic Government, an International Journal, vol. 5, pp. 203-285, 2008 22] R. A. Krueger and M. A. Casey, Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Applied Research, 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 23] E. Madriz, "Focus Groups in Feminist Research," in Handbook of Qualitative Research, N. K. Denzin and Y. S Lincoln, Eds., 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000, pp. 835-850 24] A. Mathie and J. C. Greene, "Stakeholder Participation in Evaluation: How Important Is Diversity?" Evaluation and Program Planning, vol. 20, pp. 279-285, 1997 25] L. Mohan and W. K. Holstein, "Eis: It Can Work in the Public Sector," MIS Quarterly, vol. 14, pp. 434-448, 1990 26] E. W. T. Ngai and F. K. T. Wat, "A Literature Review and Classificatiuon of Electronic Commerce Research Information &amp; Management, vol. 39, pp. 415-429, 2002 27] W. J. Orlikowski and D. Robey, "Information Technology and the Structuring of Organizations," Information Systems Research, vol. 2, pp. 143-169, 1991 28] R. Park, "Measuring Factors That Influence the Success of E-Government Initiatives," in 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 IEEE, 2008, pp. 218 - 218 29] M. Q. Patton, Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods, 3 ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications 2002 30] H. Rainey, R. Backoff, and C. Levine, "Comparing Public and Private Organizations," Public Administration Review vol. 36, pp. 233-244, 1976 31] J. Ritchie, J. Lewis, and E. Gillian, "Designing and Selecting Samples," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 77-108 32] K. A. Schildt, S. Beaumaster, and S. Bailey, "Organization Antecedents of Successful It Management," presented at Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS'06 Government Track, Kauai, 2006 33] B. C. Stahl, "The Paradigm of E-Commerce in EGovernment and E-Democracy," in Electronic Government Strategies and Implementation, W. Huang, K. Siau, and K K. Wei, Eds. Hershey PA: Idea Group Pub., 2005, pp. 1-19 34] A. L. Strauss and J. M. Corbin, Basics of Qualitative Research: Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1998 35] Y. Wang, J. Li, P. Liu, and F. Yang, "Electronic Commerce Research Review: Classification and Analysis," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications Networking and Mobile Computing, \(WiCom 2007 Shanghai, PR China: IEEE, 2007, pp. 3505 - 3508 36] M. Ward and S. Mitchell, "A Comparison of the Strategic Priorities of Public and Private Sector Information Resource Executives," Government Information Quarterly vol. 21, pp. 284-304, 2004 37] M. Zajicek, "Web 2.0: Hype or Happiness?" presented at Proceedings of the 2007 international cross-disciplinary conference on Web accessibility \(W4A 2007 


  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207ñ216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intíl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intíl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





