  1 Progress on the Development of Future Airport Surface Wireless Communications Network Robert J. Kerczewski NASA Glenn Research Center Cleveland, Ohio, USA 1 216 433 3434 rkerczewski@nasa.gov 1 2   James M. Budinger NASA Glenn Research Center Cleveland, Ohio, USA 1 216 433 3496 james.m.budinger@nasa.gov  David E. Brooks  Robert P. Dimond Morgan Franklin Verizon Business Cleveland, Ohio, USA Cleveland, Ohio, USA dbrooks@grc.nasa.gov        bdimond@grc.nasa.gov 
 Steve DeHart Michael Borden Syracuse, New York, USA         Syracuse, New York, USA steve.dehart@sensis.com mike.borden@sensis.com   1  1 U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright 2 IEEEAC paper #1493, Version 6, Updated 12 January, 2008 Abstract 227Continuing advances in airport surface management and improvements in airport surface safety are required to enable future growth in air traffic throughout the 
airspace, as airport arrival and departure delays create a major system bottleneck.  These airport management and safety advances will be built upon improved communications, navigation, surveillance, and weather sensing, creating an information environment supporting system automation. The effici ent movement of the digital data generated from these systems requires an underlying communications network infrastructure to connect data sources with the intended users with the required quality of service.  Current airport surface communications consists 
primarily of buried copper or fiber cable. Safety related communications with mobile ai rport surface assets occurs over 25 kHz VHF voice and data channels.  The available VHF spectrum, already congested in many areas, will be insufficient to support future data traffic requirements Therefore, a broadband wireless airport surface communications network is considered a requirement for the future airport component of the air transportation system.  Progress has been made on defining the technology and frequency spectrum for the airport surface wireless communications network.  The development of a test and 
demonstration facility and the definition of required testing and standards development are now underway.  This paper will review the progress and planned future work T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION  1  2  C OMMUNICATIONS T ECHNOLOGY  2 
 3  O PERATING S PECTRUM  3  4  N EXT G EN CNS  T ESTBED  3  5  T EST P ROGRAM 
 6  6  C ONCLUSION  7  R EFERENCES  7  B IOGRAPHIES  7  1  I NTRODUCTION  Next generation air transportation systems will achieve high 
levels of efficiency and safety through a combination of new air traffic management methods, automation, and collaboration.  The underlying information infrastructure that will support the transforma tion from current to future systems requires major increases in communications capacity and performance  The Eurocontrol-FAA Future Communications Study has confirmed that a single communications system connecting the aircraft to the air traffi c management system is not 
 


  2 feasible.  Due to physical and operational differences in the different flight domains \226 airport, terminal area, en-route and oceanic/remote/polar \226 a co mbination of several types of communications links is required.  For the airport surface, the study recommende d a wireless communications network The operating frequency being considered is 5091-5150 MHz  In order to enable a safe and reliable airport surface communications network that is interoperable between airports both nationally and globally, a development and test program followed by completion of technical standards will be undertaken.  For this purpose, a test facility known as the NextGen CNS Testbed has been developed at the Cleveland Hopkins Internati onal Airport and the adjacent NASA Glenn Research Center \(GRC\e testbed will include a prototype airport surface wireless communications network based on the IEEE 802.16e standard, and will enable system tests and demonstrations leading to definition of an airport surface wireless communications network standard  The following sections will provide a description of the progress on airport wireless communications network development to date, the NextGen CNS Testbed and its airport surface communications te st infrastructure, review technical results and future test plans  2  C OMMUNICATIONS T ECHNOLOGY  For the airport surface, results of previous studies by the NASA GRC indicating the optimal type of communications system were confirmed by the Future Communications Study.  An airport surface co mmunication system based on industry communications was desired to minimize cost and take advantage of on-going improvements, as opposed to the more costly development of a proprietary standard which reaches obsolescence before the system is fully deployed. Occupying the \223Microwave Landing System MLS\Extension Band\224 of 5091-5150 MHz, a wireless mobile communications network based on the IEEE 802.16e standard was selected as the optimum technology to be developed and introduced in the future  The 802.16e-based system is envisioned as a multi-node network wireless network covering all areas of the airport surface and, if necessary, areas beyond the airport proper where facilities and equipment such as lighting navigational aids, weather sens ors and wake sensors might need to be located The system would accommodate all mobile communications requirements including aircraft various types of ground vehicl es, and personnel, and also enable links to fixed airport asse ts.  Aircraft that are parked at a gate or taxiing would also be able to access the system as long as the aircraft is not in flight  The planned airport surface network will be scalable for small, medium and large airports through the use of one or more network nodes, or cells.   It will also be interconnected with existing wired network infrastructure to create a hybrid network communications capability with enhanced reliability.  For airports w ithout existing wired network infrastructure, the wireless communications network system infrastructure can be installed much more easily and at far lower cost than wired in frastructure when such communications network capability is required  Table 1 summarizes some of the key features of several IEEE 802.16 versions.  The 802.16e version is the technology selected for th e airport surface because it provides several key capabilities.  It can maintain connection with moving vehicles at speeds up to 120 km/hr so that taxiing aircraft as well as other airport surface vehicles can enter the network It can work with mobile users in non-line-of-sight \(NLO S element for an airport surface environment with many large moving aircraft.  It can provide up to 50 Mbps in the 2-6 GHz band, which matches the available spectrum as described below, in cells of radius 1-3 miles appropriate for Table 1 \226 Comparison of IEEE 802.16 versions  
 


  3 a mesh network architectur e on an airport surface The 802.16e standard also has a number of other desirable features including: Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access \(OFDMA reuse; support of a full range of smart antenna technologies such as beamforming, space-time code, and spatial multiplexing; support of hard-h andoff, fast base station switching and macro diversity handover; and support of multicast and broadcast service.  Adaptive modulation and coding, using QPSK, 16QAM and 64QAM, and convolutional and convolutional turbo code with variable code rate are among the 802.16e options which enable adaptation to link conditions to maintain a high QoS Multiple device/user authentication, flexible key management protocol, strong traffic encryption, control and management plane message protection and security protocol optimizations for fast handovers are available to provide the necessary data and network security 3  O PERATING S PECTRUM  Studies by NASA GRC, Mitre CAASD, and others have defined a spectrum requirement for airport surface wireless communications in the range of 60 to 100 MHz [2    One spectrum band considered was the MLS Extension Band 5091-5150 MHz.  This aviation band was previously a navigation band reserved for continuing the deployment of microwave landing systems when the core MLS band reached capacity.  However the MLS system deployment has occurred at a much lower rate than expected, so the unused extension band becam e vulnerable to other industrial users.  At the same time, saturation of the VHF band for aeronautical communications required that other bands for future aeronautical communications be identified  The 2007 World Radiocommunications Conference \(WRC included an agenda item to consider additional allocations for aeronautical mobile \(route service \(AMS\(R to allow for additional bandwidth for aeronautical communications.  The agenda item proposed to first look at existing aeronautical bands to see if AM\(R\cations could be added in those bands.  The MLS Extension Band was one of the aeronautical bands under consideration for such an allocation.  However this band also includes a coprimary allocation for mobile satellite service \(MSS uplinks, hence only low power communications links could be introduced into this band without causing interference to the existing MSS systems  An airport surface wireless co mmunication network, which would require of short-range communications links of 2-5 miles, was thus considered ideal for the MLS Extension Band.  An AM\(R\cation in this band, limited in scope to airport surface applications, was proposed. This allocation was supported by a number of studies by NASA FAA, Mitre and ot hers that indicated such a system could operate in the 5091-5150 MHz band without interfering with the MSS uplinks.  In addition, the available 59 MHz of bandwidth fulfills the majority of the expected spectrum requirement A proposal to allocate the 5000-5030 MHz band also for AM\(R ace application was postponed and will be considered again at the 2011 WRC.  An additional 30 MHz of bandwidth would provide a total of 89 MHz for the airport surface wireless communications network or 89% of the expected total requirement 4  N EXT G EN CNS  T ESTBED  In order to maintain this new allocation, progress on the development and demonstration of the future airport surface wireless network needs to be shown.  At the same time eventual implementation of these systems requires the national and international standards processes to be initiated. The identification and validation of a specific 802.16e \223aviation profile\224, which would form the basis of standards, requires research, modeling and testing  Next Generation Air Transportation System \(NextGen Communication, Navigation and Surveillance \(CNS Bed has resulted from a cooperative agreement between the Sensis Corporation and NASA Glenn Research Center GRC The t e st bed focuses on t h e eval uat i on of promising CNS technologies and systems, presently encompasses three airports in the Cleveland, Ohio region and a Test and Demonstration Ce nter located at GRC.  The test bed surveillance coverage area extends to include a 200 mile radius around the Cleveland metropolitan area thus creating a wide area air-ground test and demonstration capability.  The three included airports \(Hopkins International, Burke Lakefront, and Lorain County Regional\ are representative of various classes of airports across the country close to popul ation centers that will be central to accommodating forecas ted air travel growth over the next 20 years  Sensis, in partnership with the Cleveland Airport System the Lorain County Regional Airport Authority, and the FAA, has installed an advanced version of their multilateration surveillance system and wireless communications infrastructure at each of these airports Implemented as well is a prototype of a Remote Tower System \(a.k.a., a Staffed Vi rtual Tower\hat \223shadow controls\224 operations at Burke Lakefront Airport from the Test and Demonstration Center some 13 miles away.  The Test Bed is integrated as a system via a prototype of a regional information sharing and management system  Sensis, GRC, and their Test Bed partners are collaborating to define and test possible solutions for some of the most significant challenges to the success of NextGen.  In addition to remote monitoring and control of airports, the issues under investigation by this team include validating the promised efficiencies of negotiated 4-D arrival and departure trajectories, assessing advanced integrated 
 


  4 surveillance capabilities, helping solve the continuing safety problem of runway incursions, and improving the efficiency of airport and airline surface operations    Figure 1 226 NextGen CNS Testbed wireless comm unications network node locations at the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport  The initial implementati on of airport surface communications capability has focused on wireless solutions suitable for the secure movement of aviation surveillance data and the remote monitoring and maintenance of the wireless communications nodes.  A primary motivation for pursuing a wireless solution is to overcome the installation and ma intenance costs associated with trenched, hard line implementations  A 5 GHz wireless mesh network is implemented as the current backbone network for the Test Bed.  Figure 1 shows the locations of the wireless communications network nodes, which are co-located w ith the Sensis multilateration system equipment.  The current network is implemented in an unlicensed portion of the 5 GHz band.  This experimental network transports the multilateration surveillance sensor data and system commands between the central target processor and the remote multilateration sensor units.  This network is implemented with commercial off-the-shelf wireless network nodes that are based on the 802.11a wireless standard, but with enhanced capabilities These enhancements include advanced mesh networking and a sectored antenna design that increases link performance and improves interference rejection.  The nodes are modified to operate in either the unlicensed 5 GHz middle and upper U-NII bands, or the FAA controlled but currently unused\ended MLS band \(5.091-5.150 GHz\so operate at reduced RF signal bandwidths, including 5 and 10 MHz to optimize spectrum efficiency  A second network is implemented in the 900 MHz ISM band to support remote configuration, control, and maintenance of the remote sensor and communications sites 
 


  5 located at each airport  The wireless system currently implemented has a multitude of characteristics that can be examined.   Because of its mesh topography implemented in an environment with dynamic LOS blockage and multi-path reflection events zero-state mesh convergence, full state mesh reconvergence times are currently being examined   Table 2 226 MAC Layer statistics for Skygateway 2 indicating peer, frequency, Remote Signal Strength Indication \(RSSI\ng raw data rates  Active Path Links to SkyGateway2 Freq MHz Peer Node Local RSSI Remote RSSI Local TxMod Mbps Remote TxMod Mbps 5150 Ext7 37 40 54 54 5150 Ext8 35 38 54 54 5150 Ext14 35 35 48 36 5150 Ext15 40 36 54 54 5200 Ext7 38 42 48 48 5200 Ext8 35 37 48 54 5200 Ext14 34 33 48 54 5200 Ext15 40 36 54 54 5250 Ext7 36 40 54 54 5250 Ext8 37 35 54 54 5250 Ext14 34 34 48 48 5250 Ext15 38 34 48 36 5300 Ext7 38 42 48 54 5300 Ext8 35 39 54 54 5300 Ext14 33 35 54 54 5300 Ext15 37 35 54 54 5320 Ext7 37 47 48 54 5320 Ext8 38 40 54 54 5320 Ext14 33 38 54 54 5320 Ext15 35 36 54 54  Table 3 226 Characterization of link performance for bandwidth, jitter, and loss during line rate UDP transfers of varying payload data lengths  IP statistics between SkyExtender8 to SkyGateway2 Data Bytes Max BW Mbps Jitter ms Total  Lost 100 3.000 0.833 140 112153 0.125 300 8.250 0.214 479 103503 0.463 500 13.200 0.811 75 99076 0.076 700 15.900 0.449 12148 97549 12.45 1000 16.600 0.944 12616 74977 16.82 1300 16.900 0.767 9030 57692 15.65 1470 16.600 0.907 8634 51019 16.92  Characterization of the network\222s proprietary MAC layer performance, as well as the network\222s IP data rate, jitter and loss characteristics has been completed by Mike Borden of the Sensis Corporation using Iperf, a common network analysis tool.  Tables 3 & 3 illustrate sample MAC and IP layer data obtained from the conducted tests  The communications system de sign for an airport surface must take into account the unique channel characteristics of the airport environment at the frequency of operation, in particular the highly dynamic multipath environment of an airport, where large cylindrical reflecting elements are in constant motion at varying speeds throughout the area  The characterization effort was carried out by Ohio University, in cooperation with the Federal Aviation Administration \(FAA GRC.  It was composed of analysis, computer simulations of channel dynamics and field measurement components.  The analysis phase used previous research work completed on terrestrial mobile and satellite communications to bound channel parameters and included the development of a channel classification scheme.  Development of detailed channel simulation models includes the effects of channel dispersion and fading, and the variation of these characteristics over time and space.  Field measurements included the collection of a comprehensive set of measurement data  Channel measurements were accomplished by a process labeled \223sounding\224, a field activity involving the transmission and reception of a known test signal.  The signal used in airport channel measurement campaigns was a direct sequence spread spectrum with known correlation properties with a bandwidth of 50 MHz and transmit power of 2 W   The measurements were carried out at several US airports of different sizes and configurations. Measurements at Cleveland, Miami and JFK New Yo rk airports gathered data relevant to large and medium size airports.  Measurements were also made at Tamiami and Burke Lakefront airports to represent small airport facilities.  The measurements were made at various locations in and around airport grounds The following are some of the conclusions from the measurement campaign  For bandwidths above 1 MHz, the airport surface is very dispersive and for successful modeling over a typical communications channel a statistically non-stationary tapped delay line model with detailed tap amplitude statistics and pairwise tap correlation coefficients is required   It was observed t h at i n som e i n st ances, fadi ng was severe with amplitude statistics characterized as being worse than Rayleigh.  Furt hermore, multipath components were identified to have random \223birth-death\224 like behavior in time  The airport surface can be cate gorized into three distinct 
 


  6 propagation regions: least dispersive line of sight open intermediate non-line of sight specular and more dispersive non-line of sight.  Employing airport sites located inside the airport fence can enhance signa l strength for areas that are not line of sight  The final evaluation indicates that a communications system for airport applications operating in the 5091 \226 5150 MHz band can meet the communications requirements for the airport surface domain.  This re sult was further clarified by work performed by ITT Inc. for NASA under the Future Communications Study.  In this work, ITT used a channel model adapted from a detailed model developed from the results of the Ohio University channel measurements to create an approximation of the airport propagation channel at 5.1 GHz.  Models of the 802.16e transmitter and receiver were developed and evaluated against the airport channel model  The resul t s of t h e si m u l a t i ons i ndi cat ed good performance for the IEEE 802.16e standard in the airport environment in the 5091-5150 MHz band   As mentioned above, the NextGen CNS Testbed wireless network is currently implemented via IEEE 802.11 technology. The next step to support the development validation and standa rdization of the airport surface wireless communications network requires the transition to 802.16e equipment, operating in the MLS extension bands.  This transition has been planned and requires the acquisition of 802.16e equipment operating at the required frequencies Such equipment is expected to become available in the second quarter of 2009. The initial test program to be executed when this equipment has been installed is described in the following section 5  T EST P ROGRAM  Once the IEEE 802.16e equipment has been installed within the NextGen CNS Testbed, syst em characterization test are planned, followed by appli cation demonstrations.  The application demonstrations are in the early stages of being defined, but will include such applications as surveillance data collection, weather sensor data collection, status and control of navigational aids, and mobile asset tracking System characterization tests consist of three categories development of system parameters, handoff mechanisms to mitigate blockage and enable mobility, and path loss and interference characterization The development of system parameters requires testing of RF link performance, including signal strength and communications coverage \(both line of sight and non-line of sight\measurement of message integrity, communications latency, and message rate and data throughput.  These parameters will be measured as a function of range, network loading, and quality of service \(QoS\uested Another set of measurements will enable the determination of system parameters required to ensure that the airport surface network will not interfere with MSS satellite uplink a precondition of using the MLS extension band Measurements of transmit power vs. coverage, message integrity, latency, rate and throughput will be used to assess the performance of the system in conditions that maintain non-interference with the MSS uplinks In order to develop a methodology for channelization of the MLS extension band, testing of message rate, data throughout and base station cove rage, as a function of the surface wireless communications network architecture and physical configuration, base station coverage capability and frequency re-use plan will be employed Alternative handoff mechanisms will be evaluated for their ability to enable mobility am ong the airport surface network nodes and mitigate temporary bloc kage due to aircraft and ground vehicle movement.  Testing of the ability to maintain connectivity, handoff transition times, and message integrity, latency, rate and throughput will be performed for both the mobility case \(moving between base station cells\he temporary blockage case,  while considering network data lo ad equalization and other factors Mobility testing will be acco mmodated by using a ground mobile laboratory known as the Terrestrial Hybrid Environment for Verification of Aeronautical Networks THEVAN\ed a variety of mobile network testing with both ground and satellite-based systems obile node to enable testing of the mobility parameters described above.  THEVAN will enable measurement of signal blockage events and corres ponding network reconfiguration times, correlating these events with the type of physical blockage encountered through video recording of line-ofsight.  Both simulated blockages and real-world blockages resulting from the relative motion of THEVAN representing a network-connecting vehicle, and actual moving aircraft on the airport surface will be included in the testing Path loss and interference ch aracterization are additional factors leading to optimum system design and band channelization methodologies. The propagation path loss exponent, path loss standard de viation, and shadow margin will be measured as a function of antenna height, antenna pattern and gain for both line of sight and non-line of sight conditions It is expected that additional testing requirements will be identified during the planning, installation, test and demonstration phases of the program 
 


  7 6  C ONCLUSION  The requirement for an advanced airport surface communications network has been established through NASA studies, as well as through air transportation system planning efforts such as NextGen and SESAR. Although communications networks based on buried copper and fiber-optic cable are available in a number of airports, they are found to be expensive to install and maintain and are vulnerable to cuts, resulting in service loss. A wireless communications infrastructure can add robustness and reliability to an airport communications network at a much lower cost and can be configur ed to reach a ll areas within and adjacent to the airport su rface.   Studies including the Eurocontrol-FAA Future Communications Study have identified the IEEE 802.16e standard as the commercial standard preferred for am airport surface wireless communications network Frequency spectrum has been identified in the MLS Extension Band \(5091-5150 MHz\hat is well suited for an airport surface wireless applicati on that meets a majority of the bandwidth requirement.  Characterization of this frequency band at several opera tional airports has been completed, and has led to the development of channel models.  Simulations based on these models indicates that good performance of the IEEE 802.16e standard in an airport environment in the MLS Extension Band can be expected The NextGen CNS Testbed has been developed at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and two smaller nearby airports. The testbe d is based upon multilateration surveillance equipment installed by Sensis and an airport surface wireless communications network.  The current network is based upon 802.11e equipment, however the installation of 802.16e equipment operating within the MLS Extension Band is imminent.  The 802.16E equipment will make possible a range of system test which will enable the development and validation of an 802.16e \223aviation profile\224 that will become a blueprint for a national and international standard for airport su rface wireless communicators networks.  The testbed thus equipped will then be able to test and demonstrate a wide range of current and future applications that will support th e advances in airport surface management and improvements in airport surface safety required to enable the future growth in air traffic envisioned by NextGen and SESAR R EFERENCES   Robert J. Kerczewski James M. Budinger, and Tricia J. Gilbert, \223Technology Assessment Results of the Eurocontrol/FAA  Future Communications Study\224,  2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, March, 2008 B IOGRAPHIES   Rafael D. Apaza, \223W ireless Com m unications for Airport Surface: An Evalua tion of Requirements\224, 2005 IEEE Aerospace Conference, March, 2005  Gheorghisor 223Spectral Requirements of ANLE Networks for the Air port Surface,\224 Mitre Report MP080109R1, July, 2008  Izabel a Gheorghi sor, Yan-Shek Hoh, and Frank B ox 223Compatibility Analysis of Airport Wireless Local Area Networks and Satellite Feeder Links in the 5091-5150 MHz Band,\224 2006 ICNS Conference, May, 2006   Dana Hal l and Jam e s M B udi nger 223Next G en ATS Communications, Navigation, and Surveillance Test Bed\224 26 th Digital Avionics System Conference, October, 2007   Davi d W M a t o l a k, Lawrence R Foore and R a fael  D. Apaza, \223Channel Characterization in the 5 GHz Microwave Landing System Extension Band for Future Airport Surface Communications\224,5 th ICNA Conference and Workshop, May, 2005  ireless Channel Char acterization in the 5 GHz Microwave Landing System Extension Band for Airport Surface Areas\224, Final Project Report for NASA ACAST Project, Ohio University, May 2006 8 Glen  Dyer Tricia J. Gilb ert, an d Jam e s M Budinger, \223FCS Phase II Results Paper 3 - Detailed Technology Investigations\224, ICAO Aeronautical Communications Panel Working Group C Meeting  #11 Working Paper 9, September, 2006  Davi d B rooks, R y an W i l k i n s, and Dougl as Hoder 223Mobile IP Communications for Aeronautical Applications\224, 23 rd Digital Avionics System Conference October, 2004 
 


  8 B IOGRAPHIES   Robert J. Kerczewski has been involved with research and development of satellite communications systems and applications since for the Analex Corporation \(19821986\\(1986present\.  He holds a BEE degree from Cleveland State University \(1982\an MSEE degree from Case Western Reserve University \(1987\s currently the Project Manager for the NASA\222s Advanced CNS Architectures and System Technologies \(ACAST  James. M. Budinger is a senior engineer in the Communications Systems Integration Branch at NASA Glenn Research Center GRC\ Cleveland Ohio Over nearly 30 years of service at NASA, Mr Budinger has lead research and advanced technology development for both space and aeronautical communications as a researcher, supervisor, and technology project manager.  He holds MSEE and BEE degrees from Cleveland State University Mr. Budinger received a NASA Exceptional Service Medal in 2003 for outstanding project and technical achievements in the development of advanced communications t echnology. Most recently, he led NASA\222s technology assessment for the Eurocontrol/FAA-NASA Future Communications Study to determine an internationally harmonized solution for the next generation of aeronautical voice and data communications.  Currently, he leads GRC\222s research in airport surface wireless communications via a cooperative agreement with Sensis Corporation for the NextGen CNS Test Bed at GRC and three nearby regional airports  David E. Brooks has over 14 years of advanced IP networking and advanced RF communication system integration experience on various projects at Glenn Research Center at Lewis Field as a Support Service Contractor\(SSC for Sterling Software, Inc 1994-1999\nite Global Infrastructures, LLC 1999-2006 MorganFranklin Corporation \(2006Present have included Advanced Communication Technology Satellite\(ACTS high data terminal experiments, Ku-band networking link experiments using mobile and air assets under Advanced Air Transportation Technologies\(AATT\supporting wireless/wired airport surface Ne xGen research activities He holds a BEE degree from Cl eveland State University 1992\SEE degree from Cleveland State University 1997  Robert P. Dimond is currently employed by Verizon Business working on several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments 
 


  Confidentiality measures directed toward the system itself may include authentication, authorization and directories. On the information side, single signon and identify management are common techniques Activities of the analyzed U.S. hospitals can be located in the upper quadrants increasing their focus on accountability including monitoring and auditing Early approaches checked on system layer monitoring activities; today application and domain layer objects are increasingly monitored and checked for compliance. While Swiss facilities attempt to improve accomplishments of the confidentiality property on the system layer, some unstructured monitoring attempts have been initialized. The upper right quadrants additionally require increased organizational IS security to be successful Administrative and clinical HIS adoption is further progressed at the two U.S. hospitals than at the Swiss ones. This seems to be influenced by market and organizational factors h ile th eir tech n i cal IS security capability is only slightly more advanced organizational IS security capabilities are significantly higher. Test plans and procedures are incorporated into operations at U.S. hospitals. Relative spending and budget for IT and IS security in relation to revenue are comparable between hospitals, except CH 2 which spends significantly less than the other facilities  4.6. Security in Heterogeneous IS  Most HIS today consist of a multitude of heterogeneous and fragmented components, accentuating the impracticability of completely monolithic systems. As a result, applications differ widely not only in business functionality but also in technical design and architecture, the rigor of applied security engineering techniques, and the support of security-related mechanisms and functions. Many vendors and service providers do not facilitate security interoperability due to a lack of standards. For example, authentication credentials are extractable from directory services with most contemporary applications; legacy systems do not provide such support. Generic authorization standards do not optimally model the workflow of multi-level, multi-user environments. Auditing trail data for applications and information is often not available and no interoperability protocol exists Many applications are interlinked using health care specific messaging protocols, disseminating sensitive information unauthenticated to a variety of distributed, possibly unauthorized applications that may be located beyond the security perimeter. Dependence of information flows and system components are fragmentarily identified To retain the combined system manageability of information, application, and system components, it is essential to obtain an aggregated representation for each information entity and its dependence on application and underlying computing and infrastructure components. Frequently, information entities are stored within multiple application components, which rely on their part on a variety of physical computing and storage devices. Due to regulations of health and personal information, it is essential to include application and domain layer elements in the representation and therefore go beyond the inventory lists of system and networking infrastructure, which can be easily obtained by commercial tools In addition to a heterogeneous application system environment, the components are used in different manners and settings. For example, clinical settings require authenticated access-levels dependent on the business function of the user, session lengths dependent on access patterns, and access to multiple applications for short intervals by a variety of personnel Often client terminals are shared by many professionals for practical reasons, but information access and modification needs to be accountable to each individual. The predicament of accessing vital health information lies in its dichotomy of obtaining timely access versus confidentiality and integrity concerns only allowing permitted and authenticated care providers to read and modify potentially life-threatening information. On the one hand, generic and unrefined authentication and authorization procedures may severely limit productivity and efficiency of clinicians On the other hand, lax security controls defeat the described requirements. Security controls and policies need to be specifically crafted and specified for each asset, resulting in the most effective protection of the information entity. The component owner carries the responsibility for the asset and makes decisions according to the organization s security specifications and budget  5. Conclusion  In this paper we discuss security aspects of Health Information Systems. In particular, four case studies on two U.S. and two Swiss hospitals are summarized and the results of the case studies compared with respect to different issues The empirical research showed that IS security in hospitals lacks some controls, in particular organizational measures. Size and IT diffusion as well as specific regulations influence organizational IS security Usage patterns of clinicians and heterogeneous application systems exacerbate security efforts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  U.S. organizations seem to have more controls in place than their Swiss counterparts. Technical security controls have become part of their system lifecycle. However, they still lack more advanced security and authentication controls  References  1 Ide ntity T h e f t Re sourc e Ce nte r  200 7 Da ta  Breach Stats," itrc, San Diego, 2008 http://idtheftmostwanted.org/ITRC%20Breach 20Stats%20Report%202007.pdf 2 P r ic e W a t e r hous e C o ope rs  2 00 8 Inf o rm a tion Se curity Breaches Survey", Technical Report PWC, London, 2008 http://www.pwc.co.uk/pdf BERR_ISBS_2008\(sml 3 M.F. C o llen  A History of Medical Informatics in the United States, 1950 to 1990 American Medical Informatics Association, Indianapolis 1995 4 B. Middle t on W  E. H a m m ond, P  F  Bre nna n   and G.F. Cooper, "Accelerating U.S. EHR Adoption: How to Get There From Here. Recommendations Based on the 2004 ACMI Retreat Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association 12 \(1\2005, pp. 13-19  T  U Dai m  R T  T a r m an  an d N Baso g l u   E x ploring Barriers to Innovation Diffusion in Health Care Service Organizations: An Issue for Effective Integration of Service Architecture and Information Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE Los Alamitos, 2008 6 C.S. G a rrard  H u m an Co m p u t er In teractio n s   Can Computers Improve the Way Doctors Work Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift 130 \(42\, 2000, pp. 1557-1563 7 U  S. D e pa rtm e nt of He a lth H u m a n Se rv ice s   Health Insurance Reform: Security Standards HHS, Washington, 2003 http://www.cms.hhs.gov/SecurityStandard Downloads/securityfinalrule.pdf 8 G  F. K nolm a y e r a nd G  L oos li I T  G o v e rna n c e   in Handbuch Kompetenzmanagement R. Zaugg Ed., Haupt, Bern, 2006, pp. 449-457 9 Yin   Case Study Research: Design and Methods 3rd ed., Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, 2003 10  Bunde s a m t f  r Sic h e r he it in de r Inf o rm a tions technik, "IT-Grundschutz-Kataloge," BSI, Kln 2005 http://www.bsi.bund.de/gshb/deutsch/index.htm 11 L  thi Information System Security in Health Information Systems - Exploratory Research in US and Swiss Acute-Care Hospitals Eul Verlag Lohmar, 2008   12  N a tiona l Ins tit ute of Sta nda rd a nd T e c hnolog y   An Introductory Resource Guide for Implementing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA\curity Rule National Institute of Standard and Technology, Gaithersburg, 2008 13  Eidg e ns s i s c he r D a te ns c hutz b e a u f t rag t e r ED S B Leitfaden zu den technischen und organisatorischen Massnahmen des Datenschutzes http://www.edoeb.admin.ch/dokumentation/0044 5/00472/00935/index.html?lang=de 14  N  M. L o re nz i a nd R  T  Rile y   Managing Technological Change: Organizational Aspects of Health Informatics 2nd ed., Springer, New York 2004 1 A  Bh attach erje e an d N Hi k m et  P h y sician s' R e sistance toward Healthcare Information Technologies: A Dual-Factor Model Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2007 16  R. Sp an jers, W  Hasselbring R. P e t e rso n and M  Smits, "Exploring ICT Enabled Networking in Hospital Organisations Proceedings of the 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2001 1 T h e A d vi so r y Bo ard Co m p an y   Toward Integrated Identity and Access Management The Advisory Board Company, Washington, 2006 18  B  B l obe l A uthoris a t i on a nd A c c e s s C ontrol f o r Electronic Health Record Systems International Journal of Medical Informatics 73 \(3\, 2004, pp 251-257 1 J E  M  l l er an d H  V o segaard  E xp erien ces w ith  Electronic Health Records IT Professional 10 2 2008, pp. 19-23 20  S. K a hn a n d V She s ha dr i M e d ic a l R e c o r d P r ivacy and Security in a Digital Environment IT Professional 10 \(2 2008, pp. 46-52 21 R   A nde r s on Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems Wiley New York, 2001 22 ISO ISO/IEC 17799: Information Technology Security Techniques - Code of Practice for Information Security Management 2nd ed., ISO, Geneva, 2005 23  P. Me rte n s a nd G  K nolm a y e r Organisation der Informationsverarbeitung 3rd ed., Gabler, Wiesbaden, 1998 24  B.B. W a ng T  T  H. W a n  D.E Bu rk e, G  J. Bazzoli, and B.Y.J. Lin, "Factors Influencing Health Information System Adoption in American Hospitals Health Care Management Review 30 \(1 2005, pp. 44-51  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments pre></body></html 


common concern was compliance with the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA information privacy. Organizations were unsure whether DP products would be HIPAA compliant and even if the products themselves were secure whether their onboard information could be kept secure when the pens are small and easily lost  3.4.3. Implications for DP. Although there was substantial interest in DP technology among professional services and white collar organizations the ethnographic findings suggest that delivering appropriate value from DP technology would be difficult. The first barrier would be providing a platform that either conforms to or changes current behaviors around pen and paper: free availability of pens and unpatterned paper in the workplace behaviors of writing on environmental paper, and the need to keep up with a personal pen with one?s data The second barrier would be to meet expectations around text; much of the value was seen as being in retention and searching of textual information, but this would be made difficult by the frequent inclusion of acronyms, abbreviations symbols, and foreign languages. Many organizations saw value in centralized repositories that would manage DP information across many employees; this would require an IT infrastructure that was not available \(e.g., to manage the DP pattern space might be difficult and expensive to develop and maintain. It also poses questions about privacy, since employees might not wish the archive to retain personal information captured alongside work notes Finally, because we noted real or perceived barriers that were highly specific to various industries it appeared that DP solutions would be most likely to succeed if they were tailored to very specific settings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 and use cases. This does not argue against DP usage and its value, but it suggests that delivering value to organizations may require substantially more design and development effort than a single general solution or platform would provide  4. Discussion  Our findings show that the interaction model of DP technology diverges substantially from common pen and paper usage. This divergence leads to unclear utility of DP for consumer note-taking purposes, and in a field trial, resulted in high abandonment rate of a consumer DP product. Among the most significant limitations were the low value seen in review of facsimile notes on a PC, the requirement with DP to use a special pen paired with patterned paper, and the low perceived value of capturing only notes taken on blank paper as opposed to handouts and other materials. In the enterprise space, the environmental issues were even more prominent due to the common infrastructure of freely available, communal pens and paper and the lack of IT infrastructure for DP document retention The note-taking research reported here suggests that writing behavior comprises many important areas besides capture, retention, and review of specific data. For instance, a single blank piece of paper or a one-word reminder may adequately serve as a reminder to do something that one intends, even though there may be little or no content as such Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending 


Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending a lecture, it may be socially desirable to take notes even if they are later simply disposed. Taking notes may also serve purposes of memory consolidation even when the content is never reviewed [8][9  4.1 DP and Writing Acts  Linguistic acts in social context have been described using a model of performative behavior commonly known as ?speech acts? theory [15 Chapman [2] extended that model to encompass writing, suggesting that many aspects of ?writing acts are unique and separate from spoken language.  In the extended model, writing acts may be described with a multidimensional taxonomy encompassing a writer?s context, aspects of the process, type of content, and linguistic features of the content Table 3 summarizes the dimensions of writing acts \(from [2 exemplify each dimension. For instance, ?separability denotes the extent to which items in a document are logically independent of one another; in a contract nothing is separable because the document is a single piece, while on a to-do list, many or all items may be independent of one another [2 DP technology may benefit from attention to the dimensions that are exemplified by writing acts embedded in social contexts. DP systems may be able to perform some kinds of writing acts quite well, but in other cases, DP may be inconvenient, unnecessary or inappropriate. Models such as the writing acts framework can be used both to understand user behavior broadly and systematically to explore the applicability of DP products across the general space of writing behavior A key problem for DP in note taking applications is that note taking can involve nearly every possible dimension of writing acts. Notes may be separable or not; they may serve as functional content or as contextual reminders; they may present just the facts? or be more interpretive; they may be transient or might be intended to be archival documents; and so forth. In short, notes are able to present a vast array of writing styles that pose substantially different value propositions and technological implications for DP products Delivering a general DP solution for note taking may therefore be expected to be difficult  Table 3: Dimensions of Writing Acts [2  Dimension Exemplars Separability a contract vs. a to-do list Function a typed inventory list vs calligraphy Emotionality a love letter vs. a packing slip Spatiality a transcript of speech vs. a diagram depicting concept relationships Associativity notes from class vs. doodling Linearity chronological notes vs. notes placed in a spatial ordering scheme Originality an essay vs. feedback on a manuscript Prescriptivity a signature vs. general notes Finality a document that will be archival vs. one that is a draft Structure a grocery list vs. concepts from a brainstorm Personality a letter to someone vs. a 


Personality a letter to someone vs. a journalistic essay Formality a business letter vs. a greeting card to a close friend  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 For product development purposes, the writing acts framework can be used to ensure coverage of use cases by generating possible scenarios combining various attributes of written documents. These potential combinations may then be explored evaluated, and prioritized for research attention development effort, or testing  4.2 Possible Directions for DP Technology  4.2.1. Note taking. What would make DP technology more popular for note taking? Our research suggests that this is a complex question because there are numerous behavioral barriers. The largest single problem for DP may be that it is a closed system comprising a special pen and patterned paper and does not function with the wide array of writing utensils and paper products that people use especially for environmentally available pens, paper and documents. If this problem could be solved or mitigated through an expanded DP technology platform, DP would avoid the large behavioral block posed by the current need for users to change their existing pen and paper habits DP effectively focuses on notes as data neglecting many aspects of the embedded social nature and process function of notes. If DP notes were easily integrated into a wider range of behavioral processes, adoption should increase. For example, if notes could be automatically handled for content such as phone numbers, appointment times reminders, temporary content, and the like, then the DP platform would come closer to matching current pen and paper usage. However, in many cases, there is a separate and larger issue: computer technology today also is not integrated into such processes. To take a simple example, consider a written grocery list Even if the problem could be solved to recognize extract, and transfer the list to a PC, it would be of little use because, for most people, the PC itself is not integrated into the grocery shopping process. Much information of this kind is transient; there is no need to manage or retain it once the paper has been used An example of potentially closer workflow integration is shown in the recently released Livescribe Pulse Smartpen [11], which couples the Anoto DP platform with audio recording such that note takers can review the audio of a meeting or lecture at the exact point that a note was written. We believe that these kinds of additions to base DP functionality are likely to appeal to specific niches of users, but as more use cases like these are enabled over time, DP may successively attain value for larger numbers of users In our field trials and organizational visits, one of the most common customer expectations was that DP notes should be converted from handwriting to text; respondents commonly noted that PC data is of little use unless it is transcribed to text. To meet customer demands, a DP product will need to address this expectation: the DP must either deliver text recognition with very high accuracy, which is a difficult problem, or it should manage the expectation in some other way that preserves customer perception of value from PC integration 


of value from PC integration The high cost of DP products \(approximately US 100 for a pen, plus the need for specially patterned paper demonstrable additional benefit. Transferring notes from paper to a PC today merely involves typing Unless the need for automation is great and the DP function is nearly perfect, users may simply prefer to type or to carry paper rather than to change behavior to use expensive and less flexible technology  4.2.2. Structured input. As noted in the Introduction above, another use case for DP technology is structured input of information. In particular, DP technology may be useful for form-based input into database and workflow systems, where information is initially recorded on paper forms and then automatically transferred from the pen to a database application. Although the present research report is concerned primarily with note taking applications, in the course of our enterprise research we discussed potential applications for forms-based DP usage We noted possible use cases that fell into five general areas: \(1 easier input of information by customers, such as clients filling out deposit or withdrawal slips at a bank; \(2 information from paper to database without needing to rekey or type the information, such as factory inspection and quality assurance logs, traffic tickets shipping manifests, and so forth; \(3 environments that were not suitable for handheld computing devices, such as construction sites and some kinds of manufacturing facilities; \(4 in which paper-based records are desirable for either employee compliance or customer comfort, such as medical settings; and \(5 based records are necessary, e.g., for legal reasons but a DP product could support faster turnaround and error correction. An example of such application involved financial forms that undergo offsite optical character recognition; a DP system might allow immediate recognition and error correction We plan to report this line of research fully in the future. For now, we note that each of those areas has various benefits and potential limitations with regard to DP technology. Forms-based use cases are more precisely defined and structured than note taking, in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 terms of environment, workflow, and content; the information context, form design, and potential for systems integration with rapid feedback may mitigate issues with handwriting recognition; and enterprise customers may be less price sensitive than consumers Thus, structured input appears to be a more promising near-future application of DP technology than note taking  4.3 Research Discussion  As we noted above, the present research was primarily behavioral and qualitative. Thus, despite the strength and consistency of our results across multiple samples, contexts, and locations, we present no specific metrics or tested hypotheses on user behavior with DP products. Our findings could be used to inform directional hypotheses for future depth or quantitative research. For instance, one might formulate and test hypotheses about cultural differences, interest levels in DP between various groups such as professional and non-professional 


office workers, market research metrics such as price sensitivity, and the like It is important to underscore the value of ethnographic fieldwork in the present research. It would be possible to conduct design research that explores how to make DP technology better, e.g., in terms of usability and function, without investigating exactly what people would do with such products and why. It was only when we investigated behavior in depth that we discovered the divergence of DP products? limited current value for note taking, as opposed to the high value that one might presume in the absence of depth research  5. Conclusion  In our research, initial trials of digital pens in a controlled setting \(Research Series 2 above suggested potentially good fit between digital pen functionality and consumer note taking needs However, when we explored real world behavior in note taking \(Research Series 1, 3, and 4 above found many potential barriers to adoption of digital pens for note taking. In particular, traditional pen and paper offer advantages in terms of cost, widespread and ad hoc availability, flexibility to work with multiple sources seamlessly, behavioral workflow integration, and manageability of content The value of using digital pens will increase if manufacturers are able to expand their platform technology progressively to enable broader coverage of behavioral scenarios and habits, focusing on the broad range of writing behaviors rather than just needs for facsimile replication on a computer Alternatively, digital pen technology may be more easily applied to tasks involving structured input rather than unstructured note taking We suggest that DP development efforts should use existing linguistic frameworks \(e.g., [2 the space of writing acts of interest. This should allow DP products to target behavioral needs in a more focused manner, leading to higher customer adoption  6. Acknowledgements  We thank many people who participated in this research: first and foremost, the numerous research participants, firms, and organizations who so generously shared their time and insights, but who must remain confidential; and many colleagues and research partners at Microsoft who collaborated on the technology investigation and research efforts especially Jeff Staiman, Vince Ball, Brian Williams Yoshiyuki Moriya, Stephen Cooper, Dave Shen Setsuko Arimatsu, Benjamin Babcock, Dennis Meinhardt, John Chiloyan, Glen Larsen, Mehrdad Basseri, Lori Birtley, Ken Hinckley, and Jian Wang  7. References  1] Anoto Group. Digital pen and paper. Web page http://www.anoto.com/?id=158, last retrieved May 28 2008  2] Chapman, C. N. Writing acts: taxonomy and technological implications. Paper presented at North American Computing and Philosophy \(CAP Corvallis, OR, August 2005  3] Despont-Gros, C., B?uf, C., Geissbuhler, A., and Lovis C. \(2005 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





