Selecting Web Services and Participants for Enforcing Workflow Access Control  San-Yih Hwang, Chuan Yin, Chien-Hsiang Lee Department of Information Management, National Sun Yat-sen University Kaohsiung, Taiwan 80424 syhwang@mis.nsysu.edu.tw   Abstract  Web services have emerged as a de facto standard for encapsulating services within or across organization boundaries. Various proposals have been made to compose Web services into workflow so as to meet the goal previously unaccomplished by a single entity. This paper focuses on the workflow access control problem and proposes a Web service 
selection approach that dynamically chooses a performer for each task in the workflow, not only to satisfy all access control constraints currently but also to increase the chance of completing the entire process in the future.  The proposed approach is evaluated using synthetic data and is shown to result in the execution that is less likely to violate any specified access control constraints   1. Introduction  As SOA emerges as a novel and promising way for future software development, organizations start to encapsulate their services using standards like Web Services Description Language \(WSDL i m p le  
Object Access Protocol \(SOAP d Un iv ers a l  Description, Discovery and Integration \(UDDI o  as to interopera e with applications within or across organization boundaries. To complete complicated missions interleaved with humans and information systems, a workflow may involve manual tasks automatic tasks, and other components. A manual task is completed by a human participant inside or outside an organization, and an automatic task typically invokes a web service \(WS\ia a predefined interface described by WSDL, which may be prepared by another department or an external 
service provider However, for a given task, there exist a number of humans or WSs that are qualified to perform it Access control in the workflow specifies the qualification of the performers of various constituent tasks, which could be based on the intrinsic properties of the performers, e.g., the ages, the expertise, the positions, and the roles, or the context e.g., the current time, the locations of performers, and execution history of the workflow.  As a workflow may have to flow through information systems of different organizations, access control constraints are deemed necessary in order to reflect the business 
rules of the various participating organizations. An access control mechanism on WSs and workflows has to be designed to incorporate the access control definitions and enforce them during workflow execution When a task involved in a workflow is ready for execution according to control flow logics described in the workflow process definition, the workflow engine selects a performer for it from several WSs or human participants that are capable of offering the corresponding function. Before such a selection can be performed, access control constraints should be consulted so that WSs or human participants 
violating access control constraints are filtered out before workflow engine performs the selection Therefore, a flexible model is required to describe the access control constraints originating from diverse business policies or security concerns. In addition, an algorithm for dynamically determine a performer for each task while maximizing the chance of satisfying all constraints in a workflow is desired Consider the following Purchase Process example In an organization, three employees, P1, P2, and P3 work under a manager P4. Note that a manger is also an employee, and all employees have the rights to 
start the Purchase Process, which consists of six sequential tasks: Prepare Order t 1 Examine Order  t 2 bmit Order t 3 end Order to Supplier t 4  Perform Payment to Supplier t 5 d Inspect Goods  t 6 Tasks t 4 and t 5 are automatic tasks, whereas the others are manual ones. The entire workflow and the associated access control constraints \(which will be 
described later\ depicted in Figure 1. Figure 2 and 3 show an example role hierarchy and two WSs used by the workflow respectively Suppose an employee P1 wants to purchase an item, she first supplies the required information and initiates an instance of Purchase Process. The Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 
 


workflow management system identifies the employee and designates her as the performer of t 1  Prepares Order\en P1 completes t 1 the Seniority constraint bounding t 1 and t 2 takes effect and her manager P4 is assigned to perform t 2  Examine Order\rthermore, there is a Separation of Duties SoD\traint set between t 1 and t 3  Submits Order\which dictates that the participant who  performed t 1 cannot perform t 3 in the workflow instan h u s eith er P 2 or P3 can be s elected to  perform t 3 However, it is found that P2 and supplier A are related and therefore are not allowed to execute the same workflow instance, as marked P2 t 3 A t 4  disallowed in Figure 1. Thus, it is wiser to choose P3 for executing t 3 because such a selection allows either supplier A or B to execute t 4 and t 5, thereby increasing the chance of successful completion of the entire process  Figure 1. An example purchase process and its access control constraints    Figure 2. An example role hierarchy   Figure 3. Two WSs conducted by Supplier A and B  The environment based on which web servicesbased workflow is executed \(e.g., intranet, extranet or even the Internet\ a failure-prone environment It is better that a given task has multiple choices in determining its performer since a WS may become unavailable at runtime due to network failure or hardware/software error pertaining to the platform on which the WS is executed.  Thus, when it comes to selecting the performer for a given task in a workflow we should choose the one not only to satisfy all access control constraints currently but also to increase the chance of completing the entire process in the future in the presence of WS failure. In this paper, we propose a model to describe access control constraints and propose an approach to dynamically choosing a performer for each task to meet the goal mentioned above This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the previous work in workflow access control. Section 3 presents some basic concepts and defines the problem we wish to solve. Section 4 describes our proposed approach, which is then evaluated using synthetic data as reported in Section 5. Finally, Section 6 summarizes the paper and gives future research directions  2. Related work  For a human participant or a WS to perform a task of a workflow, the workflow management system has to recognize and give authorization to the performer. The authorization must conform to the binding between tasks and performers specified in the process definition. In recent years, the problem of authorizing users to perform tasks within a workflow while enforcing access control constraints have attracted much interest, especially from security community. Bertin pos ed m e t h ods to specify authorization information, articulate authorization constraints, and attach such information to WS-BPEL process definition. In e t h od t o  specify and enforce access control on manual tasks with existing workflow management systems was proposed. A language based on pure-past linear temporal logic was proposed in p ecify  access control constraints related to past histories of service invocations and role hierarchies. In the survey of e v e ral acces s co ntrol m odels i n clu di n g  access matrix model, role-based access control model, task-based access control model, team-based access control model, spatial access control model and context-aware access control model were introduced Access control constraints are rules confining the performers of tasks in accordance to security policies. One of the well-known constraints is separation of duties, which requires mutually exclusive roles to complete a sensitive task [11   Because security-relevant contextual information can capture the dynamically changing environment, these Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


information directly affects the effectiveness of access cont A cces s con t rol con s train t s can be classified into context-free constraints and contextsensitive constraints. A context-free constraint on a task determines the set of performers of the task based on static attributes of each performer. The used attributes may include roles, ages, gender, reliability and responsiveness, whose values generally do not change during the execution period of a workflow instance. An example context-free constraint is the service restriction constraint proposed in at states a certain service cannot be accessed by users under a certain age. A context-sensitive constraint determines the set of performers based on the context of the running workflow instance, which may include attributes of each performer as well as the performers that have performed previous tasks in the same workflow instance. There are quite a few types of context-sensitive constraints that have been proposed History-based constraints, a major type of contextsensitive constraints that are based on past history of execution, include separation of duties, binding of duties, session limit, and pre-requisite role [1, 3, 4, 11   Most of the previous work in workflow access control focuses on the specification of various types of constraints and the selection of a performer for each task so as to satisfy all given constraints. Our work differs from previous work in that we select a performer for a task not only to satisfy all the constraints currently but also to increase the chance of satisfying all constraints in the future  3. Fundamental concepts and problem definition  We formally define the workflows and the two types of task performers, namely participants and WSs, using finite state machine \(FSM\Figures derived from the Purchase Process example as mentioned in Section 1 will be used to illustrate these concepts  Definition 1: \(Workflow A Workflow WF is a FSM that prescribes all possible executions of constituent tasks. Formally WF is a tuple  S  s 0   F here  is a set of tasks  S is a finite set of states  s 0 is a state in S representing the initial state of WF    S      S  is the transition function of the FSM, which is a partial function that returns the new state resulting from a task in   being performed when the WF is in some given state and  F    S representing the set of final states, i.e., the states where the interactions with WF can be terminated   Figure  4. A Purchase Process represented as an FSM   Figure 4 illustrates the FSM of the Purchase Process in Figure 1, which contains a sequence of six tasks. When a task is performed, the state transits to the next one. For example, after the task Employee Prepares Order is performed, the state transits to the next one, waiting for the arrival of the next task Manager Examines Order   Definition 2: \(Component WS A component WS is an entity that consists of a workflow of operations prescribing the legal execution orders of these operations  Definition 3: \(Participant A participant is a person that involves a workflow of activities.  Here an activity is defined as a pair of task and role t  r meaning the completion of a task t by the person who played the role r   Both component WSs and participants can be described using FSM. Following the example shown in Figure 1, we depict the two component WSs provided by two suppliers A and B \(for executing t 5  and t 6 shown in Figure 5. Figure 6 shows the FSMs for the participants P1, P2, P3, and P4. Note that P4 can play two roles: employee and manger, and is thus capable of performing both Prepares Order task when playing the role of employee\nd Examines Order task \(when playing the role of manager the states that are double circles represent final states At the end of execution, the workflow of each Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


component WS and participant must be in either the start state or the final state  Definition 4: \(Target Workflow A target workflow is a workflow whose tasks are interfaces to operations of component WSs or activities of human participants. Note that the performer of a task can be either a component WS or a human participant  Figure 5. The FSMs of two component WSs provided by supplier A and B   Figure 6. FSMs of four participants   Definition 5: \(Authority  An authority A is a mapping from a task in the target workflow to a set of performers. Formally, A: T   2 E where T is a set of tasks and E is a set of performers  The authority of a task t describes the qualification of performers eligible for executing t For example, the authority of t 1 as described in Figure 1 is {\(P1, Emp P4, Emp\meaning that P1 P2, P3, and P4 can all perform t 1 when playing the role of Employee  Definition 6: \(Constraint An access control constraint C is a predicate on the performers for some tasks  An access control constraint may involve several tasks and further limits the qualification of performers for a given task. For example, Separation of Duties constraint on two tasks t 1 and t 3 specifies that the performer of t 3 cannot be the same as that of t 1 denoted SoD t 1  t 3 re constraints will be elaborated in Section 4  Definition 7: \(Composition Given a target workflow W t a set of component WS T and a set of participants H the composition of W t  using T and H denoted Comp W t  T, H is an FSM that prescribes all possible delegations  To illustrate the concept of composition, we use the target workflow, the component WSs, and the participants depicted in Figure 4, 5, and 6 respectively to construct the composition, which is partially shown in Figure 7. Each node in the composition represents a state of the system and is called a configuration                        Figure 7. Partial composition of W t in Figure 4, using T and H shown in Figure 5 and 6 respectively, where the dotted paths violate the constraints  Note it is possible that some executions in the composition violate a certain access control constraints. In Figure 7, the executions marked in dashed lines violate some of the specified access control constraints. For example, on the leftmost path  A  t 4 not follow p 2  r 1  t 3 e to the constraint  p 2  t 3  A  t 4 ed In addition p 1 r 1  t 6  cannot follow p 2  r 1  t 3 e to BoD t 3  t 6   Problem definition Given a set of access control constraints as well as a target workflow, a set of components WSs, and a set of participants, how do we dynamically assign a performer for each task in the target workflow so as to increase the chance of successfully completing the workflow instance with all constraints being satisfied   2 f  0 1 t 4  t 5  Supplier A 2 f  0 1 t 4  t 5  Supplier B 2 f  0 Pa r ticipant FSM for Employee p 1 p 2 and p 3  t 1  t 6  1 t 3  t 6  2 f 0 Participant FSM for Manager p 4 t 1  t 6  1 t 3 t 6 t 2  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


 4. Our approach  Our approach to solving the dynamic performer selection problem \(for enforcing access control consists of two phases: the design phase and the execution phase. In the design phase, we aim to build a composition by taking as input the definition of the target workflow, a set of component WSs, a set of human participants, and a set of access control constraints. Specifically, we incorporate as many access control constraints as possible into the FSMs of component WSs and human participants. We subsequently construct a composition using the modified FSMs In the execution phase, the composition is used by the access control enforcement module attached to the workflow engine. The access control enforcement module determines which component WS or participant to delegate for a given task by consulting the composition and utilizing runtime contextual information, as well as the access control constraints unenforced in the design phase Figure 8 shows the procedure of our proposed approach  4.1. Modeling the access control constraints  We observed that many types of constraints are about the exclusive and inclusive designation of performers. Thus we propose to use exclusive ordered pairs abbreviated as EOP\d inclusive ordered pairs abbreviated as IOP\cribe these access control constraints so that the constraints concerned in the current study can be generalized and examined using a uniform algorithm. We use as the operator for an inclusive ordered pair and   for an exclusive ordered pair The antecedent and consequent of each operator take the form of task  role uman participant or simply task or component WS. For example, an inclusive pair t 2  r 4   t 1  r 3 means that task t 2  must be executed by the same participant playing the role of r 4 who had performed task t 1 under the role of r 3 As another example t 2  t 1 indicates that the component WS that had been delegated to execute t 1  cannot be used to execute t 2  We survey a wide range of access control constraints described in the literature and identify eight types of access control constraints. We will briefly describe each type of constraints and show how it can be expressed using the proposed exclusive/inclusive ordered pairs, if any Constraints SoD t 1  t 2   Building composition Disallowed sequence Enforcing access control Target workflow FSM Composition FSM     Ordered Pairs  t 1  o 1   t 2  o 1  Adjusted Component WS participant FSM Participant FSM Component WS FSM Adjusting FSM  Figure 8. Architecture of the proposed approach  1.  Separation of Duties \(SoD Separation of Duties \(SoD\onstraint indicates that some \(sensitive\ks should not be executed by a participant \(with some roles\ponent WS who has previously performed a specific task in the same workflow instance. We can transform a SoD constraint into a set of exclusive ordered pairs. For example, to disallow two sequential automatic tasks t 1 and t 2 to be executed by the same WS, we simply specify t 2  t 1 As another example, suppose that we do not want two sequential manual tasks t 1 and t 2  to be executed by the same participant who plays either role r 1 or r 2 Two exclusive ordered pairs can be specified  t 2  r 1   t 1  r 1  t 2  r 2   t 1  r 2    2. Binding of Duties \(BoD Binding of Duties \(BoD\straint dictates that two tasks must be executed by the same performer. Let t 2  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


be executed after t 1 the BoD constraint on t 1 and t 2  can be directly specified using an inclusive ordered pair t 2   t 1   3. Session limit Session limit requires that a participant should not play more than n role\(s\ in a single running process instan o w  w e on l y con s ider th e s i t u atio n of n 1. We can use a set of exclusive ordered pairs on a role to express such a session limit constraint For example, suppose that a participant p can play two roles r 1 and r 2 and is qualified to execute three tasks t 1  t 2 and t 3 in order, but is subject to the session limit constraint. We can specify the following inclusive ordered pairs for p   t 3  r 1   t 2  r 2   t 2  r 1   t 1  r 2   t 3  r 2   t 2  r 1 nd t 2  r 2   t 1  r 1   4. Pre-requisite roles A pre-requisite roles constraint on roles r 1  r 2  specifies that a participant can be assigned to a certain role r 2 only if he/she had played another role r 1 before [1 T h is con s train t can be ex pres s e d w i th inclusive ordered pairs. For example, suppose a participant is capable of executing three sequential tasks t 1  t 2 and t 3 A pre-requisite roles constraint on roles r 1  r 2 be represented by the following inclusive ordered pairs  t 3  r 2   t 2  r 1   t 3  r 2   t 1  r 1   t 2  r 2   t 1  r 1   5. Service restriction Service restriction constraints are conditions specified on the static properties of the executors  A service restriction constraint on a task t can be incorporated into the authority of t and does not require explicit access control  6. Seniority A seniority constraint on a pair of tasks t 1  t 2  requires that t 2 be executed by a participant who is more senior than that of t 1 7  Se nio r it y c o nstr a i nts  can be checked only when a task \(e.g t 2 to execute and can be easily enforced by further confining its authority at runtime. It does not require explicit access control  7. Location/time-based A location/time based constraint places a limit on allowed performers of a task based on the locations of performers and/or the current time S i m ilar to the seniority constraints, location/time-based constraints can be enforced by confining the authority of a task at runtime and does not require explicit access control 8. Disallowed delegation sequence This is the most general type of access control constraints. A disallowed delegation sequence contains delegations which are not allowed to coexist in that order. For example, a disallowed delegation sequence W 1  o 1  W 2  o 2  W 3  o 3 pecifies that it is invalid to delegate o 1  o 2   and o 3 to W 1  W 2  and W 3 respectively and to execute them in that order This constraint will make the paths in the composition W 1  o 1  W 1  o 4  W 2  o 2  W 3  o 5  W 3  o 3 d  W 1  o 4  W 1  o 1  W 2  o 2  W 3  o 3  W 3  o 5 alid because both paths contains the subsequence W 1  o 1  W 2  o 2  W 3  o 3 fact, we can extend the constructs of inclusive/exclusive ordered pairs to express disallowed delegation sequences of length 2. For example, a disallowed delegation sequence W 1  o 1  W 2  o 2 be expressed as a exclusive order pair  W 2  o 2  W 1  o 1 However, disallowed delegation sequences of length greater than 2 can only be checked at runtime. We will describe how to handle disallowed delegation sequences in subsection 4.4  4.2. Adjusting the FSMs of participants and component WSs  As seen, the first four constraints listed in the last subsection, namely SoD, BoD, Session limit, and Pre-requisite role, can be expressed using inclusive ordered pairs and/or exclusive ordered pairs. We will show that both inclusive ordered pairs and exclusive ordered pairs can be enforced through refining the FSMs of relevant participants or component WSs Consider the FSM of a component WS W that consists of five operations as shown in Figure 9 Suppose that there is constraint t 4  t 1 and that t 1  and t 4 can be delegated to o 1 and o 4 of W respectively Among the four possible executions prescribed by the FSM o 1  o 3  o 4 violates t 4  t 1  For the FSM of a given participant or component WS, there may be paths that contain transitions violating some access control constraints and should be avoided. To prevent such violation, one can simply eliminate any transition of the path from the FSM. For example, by removing transition o 4 from the FSM depicted in Figure 10, the path that violates  t 4  t 1 cease to exist. However, doing so may also disallow some valid execution, e.g o 2  o 3  o 4  Without loss of generality, consider the FSM of a component WS W shown in Figure 10\(a\d an exclusive ordered pair t 2   t 1 where t 1 and t 2 can be delegated to o 1 and o 2 of W respectively. Obviously there is a path leading from o 1 to o 2 that violates t 2   t 1 We first identify all paths that lead from o 1 to o 2 Here there are transitions o 1 B, X o i A, X o 2  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


Y, C\, and o j Y, D\ where i  1 and j  2. We duplicate all states leading from X to Y, and the duplicated states of X and Y are called X' and Y respectively. Then we remove the transition o 1 B, X and construct a new transition o 1 B, X we build a new transition o j Y', D\The resultant FSM is shown in Figure 10\(b\ be seen that there is no path leading from o 1 to o 2 in the adjusted FSM and that all the valid paths are preserved   Figure 9. The FSM of a component WS that contain a path violating t 4  t 1 where t 1 and t 4 can be delegated to o 1 and o 4 respectively   a   b Figure 10. \(a\ original FSM \(b adjusted FSM that satisfies o 2   o 1   We then consider the component WF shown in Figure 11\(a\d an inclusive ordered pair t 2  t 1  Obviously, there is a path leading from o i to o 2  which violates t 2  t 1 We can again identify the paths leading from o 1 to o 2 and duplicate all states leading from X to Y. We then eliminate the transition o 1 B, X\d construct a transition o 1 B, X addition, we remove the transition o 2 Y, D\ and construct two new transitions o j Y', C\d o 2 Y D\ be seen that the adjusted FSM satisfies  t 2  t 1 and preserves all valid paths The pseudo code for adjusting FSMs of participants and WSs to satisfy all access control expressed using exclusive ordered pairs and inclusive ordered pairs are eliminated here for brevity  a   b Figure 11. \(a\ original FSM \(b adjusted FSM that satisfies o 2  o 1   4.3. Building the composition of the target FSM using participants and component WSs  Using the adjusted FSMs of participants and component WSs as well as the FSM of the target workflow, we are able to build a composition that includes all legal sequences of delegations using the algorithm described in our previous work o r those exclusive/inclusive ordered pairs specified between operations \(activities\ different component WSs \(participants\we can apply the same algorithms described in Section 4.2 to further adjust the composition We use the aggregated reliability proposed in [9  as a metric to select component WSs and participants As mentioned, the workflow execution environment is a failure-prone environment. Each transition in the composition indicates a delegation of a task to some operation in a component WS or some activity in a human participant, which has a chance of failure during the execution. The reliability associated with a delegation W i  o j denoted R W i  o j dicates the probability that the operation o j of component WS W i  can be successfully executed. In our previous work   w e  m odel th e com pos i tion as a Mark ov ch ain b y  treating each configuration as a state. Suppose that there is a delegation W i  o j  leading from configuration X to Y and W i  o j is used to execute task t in the target workflow. The transition probability P XY can be computed as the product of the arrival probability of t  and the probability that W i  o j is selected and successfully executed when the current configuration is X Thus, the stationary probability of each configuration C can be computed using power meth d is called th e ag g r e g ated reliabilit y o f  C because it indicates the chance that C will leads to a final configuration in a failure-prone environment Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


The computed aggregated reliabilities of configurations can be directly used for selecting delegation. Specifically, when a task t arrives and the current configuration is C all delegations incident from C and capable of executing t are considered The delegation that has the highest product of the reliability and the aggregated reliability of the destination configuration will be chosen. This approach is based on aggregated reliability and is called AR for brevity. For detailed description on the computation of aggregated reliabilities and the AR algorithm, please refe  4.4. Enforcing disallowed delegation sequence at runtime  There may be further access control constraints that cannot be expressed using exclusive/inclusive ordered pairs and are not based on simple runtime attributes. Some of these constraints can be expressed using disallowed delegation sequences as described in Section 4.1. In this subsection, we describe a method to avoid the violation of disallowed delegation sequences at runtime To prevent disallowed delegation sequences, we examine the composition FSM and check if there exists a path p that is k step following the current configuration and contains a disallowed delegation sequence, where k is a user-specified constant. In this case, we set the reliability of the last transition that appears in p as 0. For example, consider the disallowed delegation sequence w 1  o 1  w 1  o 2  w 4  o 4  and the FSM shown in Figure 12. Let A be the current configuration and a task t 2 arrives, where t 2  can be delegated to either w 1  o 2 or w 2  o 2 By looking ahead k 2\teps, we know that by delegating w 1  o 2  to t 2 there is high chance to result in an invalid path  w 1  o 1  w 1  o 2  w 3  o 3  w 4  o 4 Thus, we can set the transition probability on \(E, G\d recompute the aggregated reliabilities of some affected configurations. Specifically, the aggregated reliabilities of E and C will be reduced after the recomputation. Thus the chance of selecting w 1 o 2 for t 2  will be lower  5. Performance evaluation  We used a trip planning \(TripPlan\ scenario to illustrate the performance of our approach. For simplicity, we consider only automatic tasks in this scenario and regard TripPlan as a target workflow that consists of interfaces to component WSs. The user who initiates TripPlan workflow is entitled to book flight, reserve accommodation, buy travel insurance, and pay for the trip, as depicted in Figure 13. There are seven component WSs as shown in Figure 14   Figure 12. A sample composition that contains a disallowed delegation sequence  w 1  o 1  w 1  o 2  w 4  o 4   Figure 13. TripPlan target workflow  Figure 14. Seven component WSs for TripPlan   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


We consider the following access control constraints  exclusive/inclusive ordered pairs EOP Payment   Insurance  IOP BookHotel   BookFlight   disallowed delegation sequences  w 1 o 3  w 6 o 5  w 7 o 6   w 1 o 4  w 6 o 5  w 7 o 6   Obviously, the adjusted FSMs of both w 4 and w 5 contain no Book Hotel so as to preserve IOP, and w 6 has to be excluded due to its violation of EOP We called our approach Adjusted AR because it selects the performer of each task based on the aggregated reliabilities of the adjusted composition Adjusted AR is compared to two other approaches namely random and AR The random selection method randomly chooses a qualified performer for each task without checking access control constraints The AR selection method makes the performer selection based on the aggregated reliabilities of the original \(un-adjusted\mposition. For the two approaches, access control constraints are consulted only at the end of each execution to determine the success or failure of an execution instance To evaluate the performance of our proposed approach, we chose the success rate as the primary performance metric, which measures the ratio of the execution sequences whose tasks are all successfully delegated to and executed by component WSs without violating any access control constraint. For both AR and random methods, at the end of each execution, the specified access control constraints have to be verified. Thus, we also report for the two approaches the denial rate for EOP and IOP and the denial rate for disallowed delegation sequences. The former indicates the ratio of all execution sequences denied by the specified EOP/IOP constraints, while the later measures the ratio of all execution sequences violating some disallowed delegation sequences Our experiments ran on a PC with a Intel CoreDuo L2400 CPU\(1.66 GHz\d 1GB RAM running Windows XP professional. We randomly generated 10,000 execution sequences of the target workflow and assumed a fixed reliability probability for each operation or activity \(called delegation reliability\. Figure 15 shows the success rates of each algorithm under various delegation reliabilities. It can be seen that the success rates of Random and Adjust AR gradually increase with the delegation reliability and Adjusted AR has the highest success rates.  AR strategy has the lowest success rates when the delegation reliabilities are greater than 0.7, because the delegation that leads to the largest aggregated reliability tends to violate some access controls resulting in failed execution. This is justified by the observation shown in Figure 16 that AR has much higher EOP + IOP denial rates when the delegation reliabilities are greater than 0.7. Figure 17 shows that Adjusted AR has the lowest denial rates induced from the violation of disallowed delegation sequences   Figure 15. Success rates of the three methods across different delegation reliabilities   Figure 16. Denial rates due to the violation of exclusive/inclusive ordered pairs of the three methods  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


 Figure 17. Denial rates due to the violation of disallowed delegation sequences of the three methods  6. Conclusion  This paper investigates the problem of performer selection for each task in a workflow in presence of access control constraints. We proposed to use exclusive/inclusive ordered pairs and disallowed delegation sequences to model many types of access control constraints in the literature. The exclusive/inclusive ordered pairs are used to adjust the FSMs of component WSs and participants before composition. The disallowed delegation sequences are checked at runtime to enable the selection of a better performer for each task in the workflow The proposed approach is evaluated using synthetic data and is shown to result in the execution that is less likely to violate any specified access control constraints  The current approach involves the evaluation of the disallowed delegation sequences at runtime which could be time consuming. We are currently investigating more efficient methods for handling the disallowed delegation sequences. In addition, more experiments are needed to shed the light on the efficiency and other measures of the proposed approach in a more systematic way. Finally Incorporating access control with QoS measures other than reliability will be explored in the future  7. References    E. Bertin o, E. F e rrari, an d V. A t l u ri T h e  Specification and Enforcement of Authorization Constraints in Workflow Management Systems ACM Transactions on Information and System Security vol. 2  no. 1, 1999, pp. 65 - 104   E. Bertin o, J. C r a m pton a nd F. P a ci A cces s Control and Authorization Constraints for WSBPEL Proc  IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS 2006 2006, pp. 275 - 284   E. B e rtin o, A  C. Squ i cciarin i  I P a l o scia, an d L   Martino, "Ws-AC: A Fine Grained Access Control System for Web Services World Wide Web vol. 9  no. 2, 2006, pp. 143 - 171   R. B h atti, E. B e rtin o, an d A  Gh a f oor A T r u s tBased Context-Aware Access Control Model for Web-Services Distributed and Parallel Databases vol. 18  no. 1, 2005, pp. 83 - 105   E. C h ris t e n s e n  F   C u rbera, G. Meredith an d S   Weerawarana, "Web Services Description Language \(WSDL\ 1.1 http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl Jun. 15, 2008, 2001 6  L  C l em en t   A  H a t ely   C   V  R i e g en  an d T  Rogers, "Universal Description Discovery Integration \(UDDI\Version 3.0.2 http://uddi.org/pubs/uddi-v3.0.2-20041019.htm  Jun. 15, 2008, 2004   J. C r am pton  A R e f e ren ce M o n itor f o r Work f l o w  Systems with Constrained Task Execution Proc  The tenth ACM symposium on Access control models and technologies Stockholm Sweden, 2005, pp. 38 - 47   M. Gu dg in M. Hadle y N. Men d elsoh n  J  J   Moreau, H. F. Nielsen, A. Karmarkar, and Y Lafon, "Simple Object Access Protocol \(SOAP 1.2 http://www.w3.org/TR/soap 2007 9  S  Y  H w a n g  E  P  L i m  C  H  L e e  a n d C  H   Chen, "On Composing a Reliable Composite Web Service: A Study of Dynamic Web Service Selection Proc  IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS 2007 2007, pp. 184 191   G. Nak o s a n d D. J o y n er Linear algebra with applications Brooks/Cole Pub. Co., 1998   R  S  S a n dhu E. J. C o y n e  H. L   F e ins t ei n  a n d C. E. Youman, "Role-based Access Control Models Computer vol. 29  no. 2, 1996, pp. 38 47 12  M  Sr iva t sa   A  I y e nga r  T  M i ka lse n  I   Rouvellou, and J. Yin, "An Access Control System for Web Service Compositions Proc  IEEE International Conference on Web Services ICWS 2007 2007, pp. 1-8   J T h om a s F  Paci, E. Be rtin o, an d P. Eu g s ter User Tasks and Access Control over Web Services Proc  IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS 2007 2007, pp. 60-69  T o l o n e G.J  A h n   T   Pai, an d S  P Hong   Access Control in Collaborative Systems ACM Computing Surveys vol. 37  no. 1, 2005, pp. 29 41  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


the following characteristics to maximize user experience in mobile advertising: 1 and suitable user interface maximizes user experience 2 communication between mobile marketer and consumer, 3 telecommunications platforms and also location based technologies. For mobile advertising to succeed business models that can capture the synergy of two existing industries, advertising and telecommunications, must be conceived. In any future sustainable business model, all players will have to reach a consensus on the structure of the system and on the importance of each player in that system [9]. The factors affecting the mobile advertising media are: 1 Players; key players and their roles, 2 relationship and cross media working in mobile advertising value chain, 3 regulation which place sets of rules for the collection and procession of location-based data  This paper delineates the results of an empirical study conducted to evaluate the strength of set of hypotheses around selected conceptual model. A five point Likert-Scale survey of a convenience sample of 115 Mobile marketing experts was conducted to help evaluate the hypotheses and statistical hypothesis testing techniques have been employed at 95 confidence level to evaluate the results. The paper also documents some valuable suggestions received from the mobile marketing expert community  The results of the survey have proven the conceptual model in the respective areas of Consumer Privacy, Purpose &amp; Performance Content Credibility and Customization Price Process &amp; Policy believe that this proposed Conceptual Model/Framework can serve as a solid base for the evaluation of the critical success factors for a marketworthy mobile advertising strategy  The main objective of this article was to explore mobile advertising?s challenges and future directions by evaluating factors that seem to influence mobile advertising. The theoretical contribution of this article lies in outlining the key factors of mobile advertising Author hopes that this article opens new dialogues on multiple unexamined issues concerning mobile advertising industry. The paper has addressed an important and topical subject, as there has not been sufficient empirical evidence to date to substantiate any of the theoretical models that have been proposed regarding the factors that influence the success of mobile advertising. This paper its conclusions will be a valuable contribution to the debates in academia  A potential extension of our research is to field this same set of survey  questions, \(which was fielded to mobile advertising experts for the sake of this paper be fielded to mobile phone consumers across different demographics in different countries to assess how the consumers? perceptions stack-rank against the experts opinions. The authors hopes that this article opens new dialogues on multiple unexamined issues concerning mobile advertising industry  6. References   1] Balasubramanian S., Peterson R. A. and Jarvenpaa, S. L Exploring the Implications of MCommerce for Markets and 


Exploring the Implications of MCommerce for Markets and Marketing", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 30\(4 2] Stewart D. W. and Pavlou, P. A. "From Consumer Response to Active Consumer: Measuring the Effectiveness of Interactive Media", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 30\(4 3] Bulander R., Decker M., Schiefer G., and Kolmel B Comparison of Different Approaches for Mobile Advertising? Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE  International Workshop on Mobile Commerce and Services \(WMCS '05 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7  IEEE Computer Society, Munich, Germany, July 2005. pp 174-182 4] Vatanparast R., Asil M. ?Factors Affecting the Use of Mobile Advertising? International Journal of Mobile Marketing, December 2007  Volume 2, No 2 5] Becker M. ?Effectiveness of Mobile Channel Additions and A Conceptual Model Detailing the Interaction of Influential Variables? access Nov. 2005 http://www.iloopmobile.com/news/mb_research_111705.htm access Jan 2007 6] Kotler P. "Marketing Management", Pearson Education Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, 2003 7] Koranteng J., ?ZAP! There?s no escaping the mobile ad Ad Age Global, January, Vol. 1, No. 5, 2001, p.9 8] Ogilvy D., "Confessions of an Advertising Man Ballantine Books, New York, 1963 9] Lepp  niemi M., Karjaluoto H., and Salo J., ?The success factors of mobile advertising value chain?, EBusiness Review IV, 2004 pp. 93-97 10] Duchnicky, R. L., and Kolers, P. A. \(1983 of text scrolled on video display terminals as a function of window size. Human Factors, 25, 683-692  11] Bauer H. H, Barnes S. J., Reichardt T. and Neumann M M., "Driving Consumer Acceptance of Mobile Marketing: A Theoretical Framework and Empirical Study," International Journal of Electronic Commerce, Vo. l6, No.3, 2005, pp 181-192 12] Koranteng J., ?ZAP! There?s no escaping the mobile ad?, Ad Age Global, January, Vol. 1, No. 5, 2001, p.9 13] Ogilvy D., "Confessions of an Advertising Man Ballantine Books, New York, 1963 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 pre></body></html 


acquisition of transport information by selecting OWLQoS documents which describe quality of Web services from a repository that contains 3 OWL-QoS documents discovered previously. Similar to the example in Figure 2, the Filter Schema FS1 is used to read and select appropriate OWL-QoS documents, and the Filter Schema FS2 to create new OWL-QoS documents for the place ?OWL-QoS document?. As Filter Schema provides no means for formulating inequality operators like ?&gt;? and ?&lt;=?, which are usually used to express constraints with parameters whose quantitative values are limited to a certain interval, transition inscriptions Figure 4. XML net for Web service discovery Figure 5. Filter Schemas for Web service discovery definitions 1 service name: \\s*flight\\s*/i c definitions service name: \\s*train\\s*/i b a definitions 1 1 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 can be used in combination with Filter Schemas to formulate QoS constrains Suppose that the traveler wants to use only the Web services that cost no more than 100 US Cent. The Filter Schema FS1 should then be created as shown in Figure 7. The variable of the attribute filter ?rdf: resource? of the element filter ?owl: onProperty? is instantiated with a regular expression to filter OWL-QoS documents specifying the property ?costUSCent?. To ensure that the maximal cost of the Web service doesn?t exceed 100 US cent, the inscription of the transition ?select transport info service? should be formulated as owl:maxCardinality &lt;= 100?. In process simulation or execution, the inscription is parsed and integrated into XQuery statements using XPath inequality operators  6. Conclusions  In this paper we presented a WSC method based on XML nets, which inherit advantages of Petri nets such as formal semantics and graphical expression. XML nets have additional strengths in the description of process and data objects, and the exchange of XMLbased structured data. The advantage of using XML nets for WSC is that control flow modeling, data and data flow modeling, and WS discovery and selection can be realized using a uniform powerful modeling language. Some uncomplicated tasks, as illustrated before, can be fulfilled without developing or using additional software components or agents. Naturally XML nets can also be combined with other Web service techniques to fulfill more complicated and demanding tasks  7. Acknowledgement  The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for many valuable comments on an earlier version of this paper  8. References  1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching 


1] P. Alvarez, J. Banares, and J. Ezpeleta, ?Approaching Web Service Coordination and Composition by Means of Petri Nets: the Case of the Nets-within-Nets Paradigm?, ICSOC 2005, LNCS 3826, pp.185-197, 2005 2] M. ter Beek, A. Bucchiarone, and S. Gnesi, ?Web Service Composition Approaches: From Industrial Standards to Formal Methods?, Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services \(ICIW?07 Computer Society, 2007 3] X.N. Feng, Q. Liu, and Z. Wang, ?A Web Service Composition Modeling and Evaluation Method Used Petri Net?, LNCS Volume 3842/2006, pp. 905-911, SpringerVerlag, 2006 4] H. Foster, S. Uchitel, J. Magee, and J. Kramer, ?Modelbased verification of Web Service Compositions?, 18th IEEE International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 152- 161, 2003 5] X. Fu, T. Bultan, and J.W. Su, ?Analysis of Interacting BPEL Web Services?, WWW2004, pp. 17-22, New York USA, May 2004 6] J.D. Ge, H.Y. Hu, P. Lu, H. Hu, and J. L  Translation of Nets Within Nets in Cross-Organizational Software Process Modeling?, SPW 2005, LNCS 3840, pp. 60-375 Springer-Verlag, 2005 7] Group for program system, faculty of Information Technique University Dortmund, ?PDDL?, http://ls5www.cs.uni-dortmund.de/~edelkamp/ipc-4/pddl.html 8] R. Hamadi and B. Benatallah, ?A Petri Net-based Model for Web Service Composition?, Fourteenth Australasian Database Conference \(ADC2003 CRPIT, Vol. 17, pp. 191-200, 2003 9] S. Hinz, K. Schmidt, and C. Stahl, ?Transforming BPEL to Petri Nets?, BPM 2005, LNCS 3649, pp. 220?235, Springer-Verlag, 2005 10] H. Kang, X.L. Yang, and S.M. Yuan, ?Modeling and verification of Web Services Composition based on CPN 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing-Workshops, pp. 613-617, 2007 11] H.M. Kim, A. Sengupta, and J. Evermann, "MOQ: Web Services Ontologies for QOS and General Quality EvaluaFigure 6. XML net for Web service selection Figure 7. Filter Schema for QoS-aware WS selection owl:Ontology owl:Class rdfs:subClassOf owl:Restriction rdf :resource : "\\s+#costUSCent owl:onProperty owl:maxCardinality   rdf:RDF Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 tions", European Conference on Information Systems \(ECIS 2005 12] S. Klink, Y. Li, and A. Oberweis, "INCOME2010 - a Toolset for Developing Process-Oriented Information Systems Based on Petri Nets", International Workshop on Petri Nets Tools and APplications \(PNTAP 2008, associated to SIMUTools 2008 March 2008 13] O. Kluge, ?Petri nets as a Semantic Model for message Sequence Chart Specifications?, proceedings of INT 2002 pp. 138-147, 2002 14] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, ?Inter-Organizational Business Process Management with XML Nets?, H. Ehrig, W Reisig, G. Rozenberg, H. Weber \(Eds gy for Communication Based Systems, LNCS 2472, pp. 243263, Springer-Verlag, 2003 15] K. Lenz and A. Oberweis, "Workflow Services: A Petri Net-Based Approach to Web Services", Int. Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Pa 


Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods, pp. 35-42, Paphos/Cyprus, November 2004 16] L. Lin and I.B. Arpinar, ?Discovery of Semantic Relations between Web Services?, IEEE International Conference on Web Services \(ICWS?06 17] Q. Lin, J.D. Ge, H. Hu, and J. Lu, ?An Approach to Model Cross-Organizational Processes using Object Petri net?, 2007 IEEE Congress on Services \(SERVICES 2007 pp. 146-152, July 2007 18] H. Ludwig, A. Keller, A. Dan, R. P. King, and R Franck, ?Web Service level Agreement \(WSLA Specification version 1.0?, IBM, 2003 19] N. Lohmann, P. Massuthe, C. Stahl, and D. Weinberg Analyzing Interacting BPEL Process?, S. Dustdar, J.L. Fiadeiro, and A. Sheth \(Eds 32, Springer-Verlag, 2006 20] S.A. Mcllraith and T.C. Son, ?Adapting Golog for Composition of Semantic Web Services?, 8th International Conference on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning KR2002 21] S.A. Mcllraith, T.C. Son, and H.L. Zeng, ?Semantic Web Services?, IEEE Intelligent Systems, March/April 2001 16\(2 22] N. Milanovic and M. Malek, ?Current Solution for Web Service Composition?, IEEE Internet Computing, NovemberDecember 2004 23] S. Narayanan and S.A. Mcllraith, ?Simulation, Verification and Automated Composition of Web Service?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 24] The Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards \(OASIS Process Execution Language Version 2.0?, 11 April, 2007 http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsbpel/2.0/wsbpel-v2.0.pdf 25] S.R. Ponnekanti and A. Fox, ?SWORD: a Developer Toolkit for Web Services Composition?, 11th International World Wide Web Conference, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, May 2002 26] Z.Z. Qian, S.L. Lu, and L. Xie, ?Colored Petri Nets Based Automatic Service Composition?, 2007 IEEE AsiaPacific Services Computing Conference, pp. 431-438, 2007 27] C. Ouyang, E. Verbeek, W.M.P. van der Aalst, S. Breutel1, M. Dumas1, and A.H.M. ter Hofstede1, ?Formal semantics and analysis of Control flow in WS-BPEL?, BPM center Technical Report, BPM-05-15, 2005 28] J.H. Rao and X.M. Su, ?A Survey of Automated Web Service Composition Methods?, SWSWPC 2004, LNCS 3387, pp. 43-54, Springer-Verlag, 2005 29] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Application of Linear Logic to Web Service Composition?, 1st International Conference on Web Services, Las Vegas, USA, June 2003 30] J.H. Rao, P. Kuegas, and M. Matskin, ?Logic-based Web Services Composition: From Service Description to Process Model?, 2004 International Conference on Web Services, pp.446-453, San Diego, USA, July 2004 31] M. Sgroi, A. Kondratyev, Y. Watanabe, L. Lavagno and A. Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, ?Synthesis of Petri Nets from Message Sequence Charts Specifications for Protocol Design?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp. 193-199, 2004 32] W.M.P. Van der Aalst, "The Application of Petri Nets to Workflow Management", The Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 8\(1 33] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C Semantic Markup for Web Services?, 22 November, 2004 http://www.w3.org/Submission/OWL-S 34] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vices Choreography Description Language Version 1.0?, 17 December, 2004, http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/WD-ws-cdl10-20041217 35] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Choreography Interface \(WSCI 


http://www.w3.org/TR/wsci 36] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Language \(WSML http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSML 37] The World Wide Web Consortium \(W3C vice Modeling Ontology \(WSMO http://www.w3.org/Submission/WSMO 38] J. Yang and M.P. Papazoglou, ?Web Component: A Substrate for Web Service Reuse and Composition?, Proc 14th Conf. Advanced Information Systems Eng. \(CAiSE 02 LNCS 2348, pp. 21?36, Springer-Verlag, 2002 39] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, and Y. Xiao, ?Verifying Web Services Composition Based on Hierarchical Colored Petri Nets?, IHIS?05, pp. 47-53, Bremen, Germany, 2005 40] Y.P. Yang, Q.P. Tan, Y. Xiao, J.S. Yu, and F. Liu, ?Exploiting Hierarchical CP-Nets to Increase the Reliability of Web Services Workflow?, Symposium on Applications and the Internet \(SAINT?06 41] X.C. Yi and K.J. Kochut, ?Process Composition of Web Services with Complex Conversation Protocols: a Colored Petri Nets Based Approach?, Conference on Design, Analysis, and Simulation of Distributed Systems, pp.141-148, 2004 42] D. Zhovtobryukh, ?A Petri Net-based Approach for Automated Goal-Driven Web Service Composition?, SIMULATION, Vol. 83, Issue 1, pp.33-63, January 2007 43] C. Zhou, L.T. Chia, and B.S. Lee, "Web Services Discovery with DAML-QoS Ontology", International Journal of Web Services Research, vol. 2: no. 2: pp. 43-66, 2005   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


  17 Mission Phase Relevant Archit ecture Informat ion Purpose Funct ion Mat urit y Pr oduct s DODAF M odel Re f e r e nce N ot e s Preliminary System Design Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team PDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment M atrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Initial Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 This will show the capability of the SV to withstand various environments \(i.e. launch vehicles System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component interface ICD Initial Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements Li v i n g Document Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 System Sub-system Design Specifications Partial Preliminary understanding of system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Initial Delivery PDR De si gn  Presentation SV 5 Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Initial Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment De t ai l e d De si gn System  Design Specifications Detailed description of "to be"  system subsystem design Allocation of required system functions to configuration items Demonstration of how system requirements are satisfied by design Final Delivery CDR De si gn  Presentation SV 4  SV 5 Note: Reference Lesson 11 - Need to look at some views and diagrams that would be useful for every subsystem Integrated Risk List Cross  functional list of risks compiled across integrated product team CDR Delivery Consolidated Ri sk Li st FFP1A Operational Environment Matrix documenting how test requirements that have been levied are satisfied with test \(at both the component and system levels Identification of the method that w ill be used to verify the requirement Identification of any potential non-conformances  Final Delivery Environmental Te st  Verification Matrix FFP7 Note: previous delivery s houl d have defined how requirements would be satisfied for long lead components.  This delivery would address all remaiing compents and system levels System Interface Control Documentation This will be a suite of documents, the mission plan s hould identify critical system boundaries that reuqire a formal interface control document M inimum Criteria:  SV - Ground and Payload to SV ICD initial drafts must be compl e t e Other pertinent ICDs:  LV - Spacecraft, Component Interface ICD Final Delivery Interface Control Documentation SV 1  SV 6 Schedule Program Driving Schedule Requirements Key schedule driven technical decisions Giver receiver relationships that span different program elements CDR De l i v e r y Intgrated Milestone Schedule PV2 Integration Prodcution Plan List of all components under procurement and their expected and need dates List should include all piece parts, miscellaneous mat ls, connectors and required ground support equipment Initial Delivery Sy st e m Pa r t s  Li st  FFP6 Technical Performance Measures Demonstrate design peformance to critical program requirements outlined within the requirements document Final Delivery Technical performance budget SV 7 Values in the budget should be compared to industry standards for a given maturity in the devleopment Open System Trades Desription organized by susbsystem of open design trades and decsions that need to be completed Each trade should have an owner and assocaited due dates that are aligned with program constriants Li v i n g Document Trade  Decision tracking matrix FFP5   


 LNCRITIC 0.884 \(.005 0.362 352 0.593 053  CRPRO -0.007 \(.306 0.012 183 0.002 798  CRCON 0.010 \(.291 0.013 230 0.019 095  Model fit F p value 24.900 lt;.0001 11.110 lt;.0001 5.940 lt;.0001 Adjusted R2 0.559 0.553 0.320 p &lt; .10 p &lt; .05 Notes: p values are in parentheses  4.5. South Korean versus American market  In terms of the effect of WOM, we find no discernable difference in the motion picture markets of South Korea and the United States. Volume of WOM is positively correlated to the following week?s revenue in both markets, and valence of WOM is not significant The effect of critical reviews, however, did not concur While the literature on the American market data reports that positive critical reviews are positively related to box office revenue[21, 34], the results on the Korean market was different. There could be several reasons for this. First, South Korea and the United States have different sources for critical reviews, and the sources may have different impacts on moviegoers Second, the characteristics of critics might be different i.e., Korean critics may prefer movies that are considered less commercial or artistic than American critics  5. Conclusion  WOM and critical reviews both are important attributes that influence box office revenue in the motion picture industry. In this study, six hypotheses related to this issue were set up and tested. Data was collected on the motion picture industry of South Korea by using several websites that provide content and statistical data about movies. Finally, data on 118 movies was collected and the movies were categorized into two groups based on the distributors of the movies If the distributor of a movie was one of the major distributors in South Korea, that movie was categorized into mainstream movies, and if not then the movie was categorized into non-mainstream movies. As expected mainstream movies had much higher box office revenue and volume of WOM than non-mainstream Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews 


movies. In the case of the volume of critical reviews however, there was no big difference between mainstream and non-mainstream movies. WOM and critical reviews were usually positive H1 and H2 tested the relationship between WOM and weekly box office revenue, and the results supported the hypotheses. The volume of WOM was positively related to weekly box office revenue, while the valence of WOM had no significant effect. H3 H4a, and H4b tested the impact of critical reviews, and the results also supported the hypotheses except H4b The volume and valence of critical reviews had no consistent significances to weekly box office revenue H3 H4b. Table 7 showed that the number of critical reviews was statistically significant to aggregate box office revenue \(H4a for the attitude of critical reviews \(H4b the result more detail, an additional test was performed using only those factors related to critical reviews as independent variables. The result of the additional test supported H4, but the signs were reversed, i.e. positive critical reviews had minus signs, and negative critical reviews had plus signs. This reversed signs imply that the preference of critical reviewers is very similar to that of normal moviegoers. H5s and H6s tested the different effects of WOM and critical reviews on mainstream and non-mainstream movies. The result failed to determine that WOM give different impact on mainstream and non-mainstream movies, so H5a and H5b were rejected. H6, however, was supported, i.e the effects of critical reviews were different for mainstream and non-mainstream movies. There were no significant relationships between critical reviews and aggregate box office revenue in mainstream movies. For non-mainstream movies, however, the volume of critical reviews and the percentage of negative critical reviews were significant. Nonmainstream movies have fewer sources from which consumers can get information, and this might explain the results The above findings lead to several managerial implications. First, producers and distributors of movies could forecast weekly box office revenue by looking at previous weeks? volume of WOM. It does not matter what attitude people have when they spread WOM, the important factor is its volume. Therefore producers and distributors need to develop an appropriate strategy to manage WOM for their movies For example, the terms related to WOM marketing such as buzz and viral marketing are easily found Second, for the distributors who usually distribute less commercial and more artistic movies, and consequently have a smaller market compared to the major distributors, critical reviews can impact their movies box office revenues in a significant way. There are usually fewer sources for information for nonmainstream movies than mainstream movies, and so small efforts could leverage the outcomes. Finally, for those who are dealing with mainstream movies, the finding that the valence of WOM and critical reviews do not have significant relationship with box office revenue can have certain implications. Particularly, the attitude of critical reviews showed reversed effects Therefore, they may need to concentrate on other features rather than attitude of moviegoers or critical reviews, such as encouraging moviegoers to spread WOM This study contributes to the understanding of the motion picture industry, especially the relationship between box office revenue and WOM including critical reviews. There are existing studies that already 


critical reviews. There are existing studies that already dealt with similar issues, but this study has some differentiated features compare to prior studies. First the data used in this study was collected from South Korea, while most of the relevant studies usually focus on the North American market. This helps to provide the opportunity to understand the international market especially the Asian market, even though South Korea is a small part of it in terms of the motion picture industry. Second, movies were categorized to two groups, i.e. mainstream and non-mainstream and this study attempted to determine how WOM impacts these categories differently by testing several hypotheses In this study, there are also several limitations that could be dealt with in future research. First, using box office revenue as a dependent variable is more meaningful for distributers rather than producers. Due to there is close correlation between box office revenue and number of screens, one of producers? main concerns is how many screens their movies can be played on. Moreover, DVD sales are also important measurement for success of movies these days, and so it also could be a dependent variable. Therefore, it could be possible to give more fruitful managerial implications to various players in the motion picture industry by taking some other dependent variables Second, in this study, movies were categorized simply as mainstream and non-mainstream movies, but there could be further studies with diverse techniques of movie categorizations. For example, it would be possible to study the varying influence of WOM or critical reviews on different genres or movie budgets Third, an interesting finding of this study is that positive critical reviews could have negative relationship with box office revenue while negative critical reviews could have positive relationship. This study tried to provide a reasonable discussion on the issue, but more studies could be elaborate on it  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 References  1] Dellarocas, C., The Digitization of Word of Mouth Promise and Challenges of Online Feedback Mechanisms Management Science, 2003. 49\(10 2] Bone, P.F., Word-of-mouth effects on short-term and long-term product judgments. Journal of Business Research 1995. 32\(3 3] Swanson, S.R. and S.W. Kelley, Service recovery attributions and word-of-mouth intentions. European Journal of Marketing, 2001. 35\(1 4] Hennig-Thurau, F., et al., Electronic word-of-mouth via consumer-opinion platforms: What motivates consumers to articulate themselves on the internet? Journal of Interactive Marketing, 2004. 18\(1 5] Fong, J. and S. Burton, Electronic Word-of-Mouth: A Comparison of Stated and Revealed Behavior on Electronic Discussion Boards. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006 6\(2 6] Gruen, T.W., T. Osmonbekov, and A.J. Czaplewski eWOM: The impact of customer-to-customer online knowhow exchange on customer value and loyalty. Journal of Business Research, 2006. 59\(4 7] Garbarino, E. and M. Strahilevitz, Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation. Journal of Business Research, 2004. 57\(7 8] Ward, J.C. and A.L. Ostrom, The Internet as information minefield: An analysis of the source and content of brand information yielded by net searches. Journal of Business Research, 2003. 56\(11 


9] Goldsmith, R.E. and D. Horowitz, Measuring Motivations for Online Opinion Seeking. Journal of Interactive Advertising, 2006. 6\(2 10] Eliashberg, J., A. Elberse, and M. Leenders, The motion picture industry: critical issues in practice, current research amp; new research directions. HBS Working Paper, 2005 11] S&amp;P, Industry surveys: Movies and home entertainment 2004 12] KNSO, Revenue of Motion Picture Industry 2004 Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism, 2004 13] Duan, W., B. Gu, and A.B. Whinston, Do Online Reviews Matter? - An Empirical Investigation of Panel Data 2005, UT Austin 14] Zhang, X., C. Dellarocas, and N.F. Awad, Estimating word-of-mouth for movies: The impact of online movie reviews on box office performance, in Workshop on Information Systems and Economics \(WISE Park, MD 15] Mahajan, V., E. Muller, and R.A. Kerin, Introduction Strategy For New Products With Positive And Negative Word-Of-Mouth. Management Science, 1984. 30\(12 1389-1404 16] Moul, C.C., Measuring Word of Mouth's Impact on Theatrical Movie Admissions. Journal of Economics &amp Management Strategy, 2007. 16\(4 17] Liu, Y., Word of Mouth for Movies: Its Dynamics and Impact on Box Office Revenue. Journal of Marketing, 2006 70\(3 18] Austin, B.A., Immediate Seating: A Look at Movie Audiences. 1989, Wadsworth Publishing Company 19] Bayus, B.L., Word of Mouth: The Indirect Effects of Marketing Efforts. Journal of Advertising Research, 1985 25\(3 20] Faber, R.J., Effect of Media Advertising and Other Sources on Movie Selection. Journalism Quarterly, 1984 61\(2 21] Eliashberg, J. and S.M. Shugan, Film critics: Influencers or predictors? Journal of Marketing, 1997. 61\(2 22] Reinstein, D.A. and C.M. Snyder, The Influence Of Expert Reviews On Consumer Demand For Experience Goods: A Case Study Of Movie Critics. Journal of Industrial Economics, 2005. 53\(1 23] Gemser, G., M. Van Oostrum, and M. Leenders, The impact of film reviews on the box office performance of art house versus mainstream motion pictures. Journal of Cultural Economics, 2007. 31\(1 24] Wijnberg, N.M. and G. Gemser, Adding Value to Innovation: Impressionism and the Transformation of the Selection System in Visual Arts. Organization Science, 2000 11\(3 25] De Vany, A. and W.D. Walls, Bose-Einstein Dynamics and Adaptive Contracting in the Motion Picture Industry Economic Journal, 1996. 106\(439 26] Bagella, M. and L. Becchetti, The Determinants of Motion Picture Box Office Performance: Evidence from Movies Produced in Italy. Journal of Cultural Economics 1999. 23\(4 27] Basuroy, S., K.K. Desai, and D. Talukdar, An Empirical Investigation of Signaling in the Motion Picture Industry Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 2 295 28] Neelamegham, R. and D. Jain, Consumer Choice Process for Experience Goods: An Econometric Model and Analysis. Journal of Marketing Research \(JMR 3 p. 373-386 29] Lovell, G., Movies and manipulation: How studios punish critics. Columbia Journalism Review, 1997. 35\(5 30] Thompson, K., Film Art: An Introduction. 2001 McGraw Hill, New York 31] Zuckerman, E.W. and T.Y. Kim, The critical trade-off identity assignment and box-office success in the feature film industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 


industry. Industrial and Corporate Change, 2003. 12\(1 27-67 32] KOFIC, Annual Report of Film Industry in Korea 2006 Korean Film Council, 2006 33] Sutton, S., Predicting and Explaining Intentions and Behavior: How Well Are We Doing? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 1998. 28\(15 34] Basuroy, S., S. Chatterjee, and S.A. Ravid, How Critical Are Critical Reviews? The Box Office Effects of Film Critics Star Power, and Budgets. Journal of Marketing, 2003. 67\(4 p. 103-117  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 





