  1 Spatial Planning for Robotics Operations  Thomas M Crockett Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-429-7439 crockett@jpl.nasa.gov Mark W Powell Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-653-8012 mpowell@jpl.nasa.gov  Khawaja Salman Shams Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA  91109 818-634-1928 ksshams@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227The rich variety of unmanned robotics at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory sets the bar for 
innovations in activity planning 123 The Operations Planning Team at JPL, co-winner of the NASA Software of the Year award in 2004, is continuously working to enhance the capabilities and user experience for long term and realtime planning operations. Spatial Querying improves the efficiency of planetary surf ace operations. It can empower scientists by giving them the ability to search for all imagery containing a particular point of interest Furthermore, these queries can help maximizing the amount of science by reducing the amount of redundant imagery before planning to acquire new images of a location planners can check if they alread y have sufficient data for it  In this paper, we describe our use of R-Trees, along with novel 3D to 2D projections, to delivery spatial querying capabilities to the operators and scientists of MER and MSL 
mission. Aside from covering the implementation details we discuss a key aspect of our software: the user interface To make the interface effective, we stressed low latency and fast computations on the server side to emphasize instant gratification from the user\222s perspective. Furthermore, we leveraged the interfaces that our customers are already familiar with to make the capability intuitive to utilize   T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  B ACKGROUND I NFORMATION 2 
 3  M AESTRO AND U SER I NTERFACE 2  4  M AESTRO S PATIAL Q UERY E NGINE 4  5  C LIENT S ERVER I NTERACTION 5  6  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE R 
ESEARCH 5  R EFERENCES 6  B IOGRAPHY 6  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1308 Version 4, Updated 2008:11:02 3 This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 1  I NTRODUCTION  The MER rovers have driven a combined total over 20 
kilometers on the surface of mars, and they often cover over a 100 meters within a single sol \(Martian day The voyage of each rover spans acro ss a period of nearly half a decade, which ends up requiring operators and scientists to have a deep knowledge of the mission timeline. They often need to know, off-hand, where the rover was on each sol Obviously, this approach does not scale for long missions which require an efficient way to inquire about data acquired and plans made at a particular location. It quickly becomes untenable to rememb er the sol for each location that the mission has covered. We introduce a new approach that enables users to express queries with spatial constraints this obviates the prerequisite knowledge of the mission timeline and enhances mission operations and scientific observation efficiency. Furt 
herm ore it can m i nim i ze redundant imagery of the same target. Lastly, a spatial search can be very versatile in quickly gathering all the acquired images of the area of interest from different perspectives or rover locations Previous state of the art work in this arena enabled scientists to express powerful queries over a large dataset of Mars data for various purposes [2  However operators frequently need to search for data from a specific region of the planetary surface. Moreover scientists may be interested in finding all images of a particular area of scientific interest. Meanwhile, rover planners may be interested in finding rover sequences used to tackle a problem at a previous location.  False negativ es to such queries can result in acquisition of redundant data, which is a costly waste of 
resources of the rover and entails potential missed science opportunities We have developed an approach that adapts location-based search technology and applies it to planetary science data to support spatial queries for mission operations software Traditionally, we have limited our search index to various structural constraints such as sol it was acquired, the instrument used, the position from which it was acquired This paper presents our use of an elegant algorithm that builds on top of an R-tree [5 to  in d ex  m u lti-d i m en s io n al data of the Martian surface. This is the first time that spatial querying technology has been adapted to the domain of operations planning of a plan etary surface mission. We are 
 


  2 the first ones to provide a responsive location-based search capability, along with other struct ural constraints, for the Mars rover mission data. The technology has been developed and delivered to the MER and MSL missions and it is currently being used in the operations of MER Spirit and Opportunity\ndex of the entire MER mission is capable of providing spatial query results in less than 100 milliseconds from a shared server.  In this paper, we present our spatial database, the interaction with the client software, and the use r-interface on the client side  2  B ACKGROUND I NFORMATION  In planetary surface operations specifically that of Mars rovers, the Rover Motion Counter \(RMC\ndex refers to a position of the rover where it was stationary. During the missions, we have acquired tens of thousands of RMC indices, and these indices pl ay a crucial role in our algorithm described in Section 4 Our approach takes advantage of several assumptions that we can safely make about the Mars missions that we serve First, the low-resolution cameras on the rover, along with planetary curvature, make it hard to recognizably see anything beyond a few hundred meters. Second, the rover traverses a fairly straight path in the overall mission rather than a circular one.  Any point on the surface of Mars should only be visible in a limited set of imagery acquired from within a few hundred meters of the point. The set is limited due to the path that the rover has taken R-Trees serve a major role in our algorithm, so it is important to have a brief discussion of how they work Traditional databases \(relational and textual\capable of processing queries that impose only single-dimensional constraints.  R-Trees were invented to address the limited capabilities of existing data-structures and single dimensional database i R Trees hel p sol v e queries like \223find all libraries within 5 miles of a particular point-of interest.\224  Traditional data-structures like hashtables are not sufficient for su ch queries because they are not efficient for range based searches, while B-Trees only index information in singledime RTree is basically a multi-dimensional extension of a B-tree B-Trees can efficiently perform range queries due to their organizational structure.  R-Trees are height balanced, and they keep the indexed records in the leaf nodes. Each nonleaf and non-root node contains between m and M numbers of nodes, where m and M are tunable for specific applications.  An R-Tree implementation attempts to ensure that each leaf node contain the smallest rectangle enclosing the inserted polygon. The B-Tree like approach gets the RTree with N-nodes to have a height of at most |log m N| -1 The R-Tree can be made even mo re efficient if all of the inserted points are known in advance using one of the many packing techniques. In our implementation, we employ a Sort Tile Recursive \(STR gorithm described in   While the R-Tree is a great dynamic structure that can tolerate inserts and deletions at runtime, they can be optimized further if packed e fficiently. The original R-Tree approach suffers from a high load time, inefficient space utilization, and a tree that is not fully balanced for optimal searching The STR algor ithm can be generalized to multiple dimensions, and it recursively works its way down to two dimensions. For the base case of two dimensions, the algorithm determines the number of leaf pages P, and calculates its square-root S, to determine the number of horizontal and vertical slices to divide the two-dimensional rectangles. Subsequently, the algorithm sorts the rectangles by the x-coordinates and divides them into S vertical slices followed by sorting the resulting rectangles by their ycoordinates and dividing them into S horizontal slices. This approach results in each l eaf node, except the last one having exactly M rectangle en tries, thereby making the RTree optimally balanced and si gnificantly more efficient in space utilization. The major dr awback of the STR algorithm is that it requires a priori knowledge of all the rectangles in the database 3  M AESTRO AND U SER I NTERFACE  We have integrated this capability within the Maestro for MER and MSLICE for MSL software suites. For the rest of the paper, we will describe our integration with MSLICE Our users thrive on their interactions with the program being very responsive. Integrating with our existing planning tools also enabled us to extend the search interfaces that the scientists and planners are accustomed to We basically used the functionality that users are accustomed to and gave them the capability to express and execute spatial searches We have placed heavy emphasis on making the search interface in MSLICE intuitive and extremely responsive. On the local JPL network, the round trip time for queries between the server and client is usually less than 100 milliseconds. Remote users on a wireless network usually face another 50 milliseconds of network latency. The application allows users to put structural constraints on their queries. For instance, they can specify that they are only interested in images from a particular sol or instrument Most importantly, the applicati on has an interface similar to 
 


  3  Figure 3-1. Users interactive with the spatial query engine while viewing an image  Figure 3-2. Users interactive with the spatial query engine while viewing the map 
 


  4 a web search engine that allows users to enter free-text style queries to express what they are looking for. Furthermore users can annotate any of the images or plans with their own tags.  This capability makes it easy to trace one\222s way back to interesting instruments, and it allows for a revolutionary level of collaborative environm ent that ensures a user can leverage tags and annotations from others We wanted to ensure that expressing spatial queries has an intuitive interface that becomes second nature to the users Additionally, we wanted the us ers to experience the same level of performance with spatia l searches that they have been experiencing with other querying capabilities. Users are able to express spatial queries while getting a bird\222s eye view from what we call the Map View, illustrated in figure 3-2. The Map View is an in teractive image view that registers surface positions and overlays surface imagery on top of satellite imagery. Through the map view, users can pinpoint interesting areas on the mission timeline by visualizing the entire journey of the rover. Furthermore while users are browsing any im agery from the rover, they can simply click on a point-of-interest and ask for all images that contain the specified point. This capability results in instant gratification.  After executing a spatial search, users can apply additi onal criteria to narrow their result set. They can apply all of the structured queries they are used to working with before spatial queries, and they can also add free-text based cr iteria to quickly specify what they are looking for Similar to the map view interactions, users can also interact with the spatial query engine while viewing an image or a mosaic. In the image view, th e users are used to creating points of interest in order to obtain range data and to tag the location. After a user selects a point of interest on the image, she can click on a spatial query link that will search for all the images that contai n that point of interest. The results are sorted in order to proximity, and they are displayed in a side view along the image that the user is viewing One of the key attributes of any search engine is the ranking scheme used to sort the results. By introducing a paradigm of mixing spatial queries with other constraints, we allow the users to express complex queries that call for a prudent ranking scheme. Like Google, a nd other search engines, we sort our rankings through scores assigned by a customized scoring scheme. When spatial queries are involved, the most important aspect of the score is the distance of the point from the rover\222s position for each image. Therefore, images taken from a location in proximity of the point are automatically ranked higher than images taken from a farther distance. Secondly, the recency of the image is also an important aspect of our ranking schemes. In majority of the cases, the end-user is intere sted in the most recent image for planning purposes. We are currently investigating a scheme that scores bases on temporal locality with respect to the image used to initiate the search as a scoring aspect Lastly, the final aspect of our ranking scheme\227strictly for breaking ties\227is by the instrument used to acquire the image 4  M AESTRO S PATIAL Q UERY E NGINE  Our spatial database is an R-Tree index that is packed using the STR algorithm. As mentioned in the Section 2, we have to be aware of all of the RMCs encountered so far before building the optimal R-Tree New RMCs are introduced fairly rarely, and they are added in batches, perhaps once per Sol.  Since our dataset is small, we can easily rebuild the R-Tree with the STR algorithm in order to provide a better user experience through faster query results. As a benchmark, it takes merely a few seconds to rebuild our entire index in an optimally packed R-Tree through the STR algorithm Mars rovers are sedentary and spend most of their time taking images at stationary locations. One of the most intuitive ways to group the downloaded data products is by the RMC at which the image was taken.  Furthermore, we have come up with an elegant approach to use the RMCs for spatial queries. The spatial index consists of all the locations where the rover has remained stationary. A request to the server contains two parameters: a 3D point and a radius r  All resulting images must contain the point within the specified radius.  Images take n from a distance farther than specified radius would not contain enough fidelity to be useful.  Upon receiving a reque st, our application server fires a query to the spatial database asking for all RMCs within a 2-dimensional envelope of the point-of-interest The envelope ahs a center at the point-of-interest, and it expands r in each direction Our spatial query quickly gives us all the RMCs that match our criterion. This inexpensive step reduces the potential result set significantly. Subsequently, we look in our traditional database for all images acquired at the candidate RMC positions. We then iterate through the list of images to find out if they contain the particular point-of-interest. This check has a low computational impact.  Basically, we use the camera model of the image to compute 3D to 2D and range projection, which requires few multiplies and dot product computations. If the re sulting range is pointing in the positive X, Y, and Z direction, we know that the camera is at least looking in the direction of the point of interest The last check is to ensure th at the X and Y range values are within the dimensions of the image. At this point, we have verified if the image contains the specified point-of-interest  Our approach appears to have few drawbacks, some of which are nonissues. First of all, we rely on the users 
 


  5 desires to find images that contain the area in a visible fashion with high fidelity. However, if the users are interested in all images of a point regardless of the distance from which the image was acquired, we have to considerably expand our search radius. Expanding the search radius is expensive because it deteriorates the effectiveness of our initial culling process: finding all RMCs within the specified radius of the point-of-interest Once the radius gets large enough, we get too many perhaps all\ the results, and we effectively have to iterate through each of the data products to deduce if it contains the point.  We mitigate this issue by artificially limiting the search radius on the server to 300 meters. We are able to safely limit the search radius due to the lack of resolution on our camera and planetary curvature, which combine to ensure that points beyond a few hundred meters are not visible in our images. Secondly, if there is a point of interest around which the rover spent many days and many RMCs, it would appear that even for very small radii, our first culling step would not be very effective as it would result in too many RMCs and thus too many potential data products.  However, with very few exceptions, the rover usually drives in a fairly straight path towards its destinations without circling around regions. Our approach benefits from this assumption in all cases because even around these areas of exceptions, there are only a limited number of RMCs compared to the entire mission and our spatial database reduces our search scope to these limited RMCs.  This is mainly due to the fact that for the majority of the mission, the rovers remain on course and spend little time, in the big picture, at specific locations 5  C LIENT S ERVER I NTERACTION  We expose our spatial querying capabilities to the clients over a web interface that runs on HTTP. This style allows us to serve spatial queries to programs written in a variety of modern languages \(from shell scripts to C, C++, and Java\ a very small cost of integration. Currently, we serve these queries to MSLICE, a Java application However, we are able to share this capability with other teams at JPL that are involved in the planning cycle of the mission.  For instance, rover drivers and sequence engineers can connect to our tool to verify if images already exist of a particular point-of-interest or to locate an annotate region that a science member may want to point to 6  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE R ESEARCH  Spatial queries introduce a new paradigm of searching in a mission planning and science environment. Adding this capability to the existing applications allows our users to leverage existing operating knowledge of the software to use this capability. Furthermore, our fast response time in the order of a 100 milliseconds, along with intuitive interfaces, provides a great end-user experience. Spatial queries help scientists make long-term observations on areas of scientific interest by allowing them to view all related images. Furthermore, enabling scientists to locate all the images acquired of a particular point can significantly reduce the amount of redundant imagery acquired of the same area. Therefore, spa tial queries can enable the operations planners to reduce load on the rover\222s resources and allow for additional valuable science Our elegant algorithm for spa tial querying on Mars surface missions takes advantages of the characteristics of the rover mobility to significantly reduce the potential dataset of matching images. We apply some cheap computation on the resulting dataset to get a dataset of all images that contain the points of interest. A key aspect of our algorithm is that it does not rely on the integrity of range data in our images and it provides robust results with no false negatives In the near future, we would like to investigate even more efficient approaches to do spa tial queries.  We are in the process of investigating other data structures and packing algorithms that we can use to store our spatial data. We would like to test R-Trees without the STR algorithm or quad-trees so that we can dynamically add spatial points to our index without having to rebuild it. Rebuilding the index is fast because we are limiti ng our index to only contain RMCs, but if we wanted to add additional points in the index, we cannot rebuild in the index in a scalable fashion for every change. Once we have a more dynamic index, we can investigate further optimiza tions as well. For instance we would like to consider inserting a frustum for each image in the library into the spatial database. Having a frustum for each image will he lp simplify our algorithm and allow us to fully use the multi-dimensional capabilities in the database by indexing 3D points.   The querying capability built on algorithms described in this paper has been delivered to MER a nd MSL missions, where they serve a key role in operations 
 


  6 R EFERENCES    Jeffrey Biesiadecki, M a rk M a im one, \223The M a rs Exploration Rover Su rface Mobility Flight Software:Driving Ambition,\224 IEEE Aerospace 2006   M a rk Powel l Thom as M C r ocket t Jason M Fox Joseph Joswig, Jeffrey S.  Norris Khawaja Shams, Recaredo Jay Torres, \223Delivering Images for Mars Rover Science Planning,\224 IEEE Aerospace 2008   Fox, Jason M Norris, Jeffrey S Powell M a rk W  Rabe Kenneth J., Shams, Khawaja 223Advances in Distributed Operations and Mission Activity Planning for Mars Surface Exploration,\224  AIAA SpaceOps 2006  T. Sellis, N. Roussopoulos and C. Faloutsos, \223The R+Tree: A dynamic index for multi-dimensional objects,\224 VLDB 1987   Ant oni n Gut t m an, \223R Trees A Dy nam i c Index St ruct ure for Spatial Searching,\224 Proc. 1984 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data  Scott T. Leutenegger Jeffrey M. Edgington , Mario A Lopez, \223STR: A Simple and Efficient Algorithm for RTree Packing,\224 Institute for Computer Applications in Science and Engineering \(ICASE\-97-14  e page: http://m arsrovers.jpl.nasa.gov B IOGRAPHY  Thomas Crockett started working at JPL in 2005 after completing his Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science at the University of Arizona, where he discovered an interest in graphics. He joined the Maestro team in 2006 and began developing advanced image browsing capabilities that woul d be used by the MER Phoenix and MSL missions to view and smoothly navigate around very large images. Recently he has been extending this work to tackle the problem of mapping and spatial browsing of the science data collected by a mission  Mark Powell is a Senior Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA since 2001. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering in 2000 from the University of South Florida, Tampa. His dissertation work was in the area of advanced illumination modeling, color and range image processing applied to robotics and medical imaging and received the award for Outst anding Dissertation from the University of South Florida. At JPL his area of focus is science data visualization and science planning for telerobotics. He supported the 2004 Mars Exploration Rover \(MER\ mission operations as a Science Downlink Coordinator, facilitating the timely downlink and analysis of science data from the rovers. He received the NASA Software of the Year Award for his work on the Science Activity Planner science visualization and activity planning software used for MER operations.  He also received the Imager of the Year award from Advanced Imaging Magazine for his work on Maestro, the publicly available version of the Science Activity Planner for MER.  Mark has been programming in Java and loving every minute of it since it was first used in web browsers in 1995.  He, his wife Nina, and daughters Gwendolyn and Jacquelyn live in Tujunga, CA  Khawaja Shams joined the Planning Software Systems group at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2005, and he has since been focused on development of OSGI-based web services to enable Maestro's rich client applications. His prior work experience includes employment at Malin Space Science Systems and the Internet Protocol Team at Nokia Mobile Phones. Khawaja earned a Master's degree in Co mputer Science from Cornell University, and a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science from University of Californ ia, San Diego.  Khawaja is currently pursuing a PhD at University of Southern California, where he is advised by Professor Maja J Matari at the Interaction Lab. Khawaja\222s research interests include Human Robot Interaction, Multi-Robot Systems, and ReSTful web applications     
 


  7  
 


in both sectors Proposition #17: The more information shared the stronger grows the relationship among partners Content Management Even more than in commerce, website content management was found to pose a major challenge in government. Quite a few participants pointed out that government agencies were lacking a sound STRATEGY for the management of content. The experts referred to the growing complexity of public web content along with government?s obligation to make public information publicly and reliably available. Government agencies obviously try to strike a balance between citizens? need for information and the extent of government services to provide that information electronically. Document Life Management, the management of document flows, as well as the proper ARCHIVING of electronic records and removed web content along with previous versions of websites were mentioned repeatedly as major challenges in e-Government content management. Frequently mentioned was also the lack of web content in languages other than English. While web content management in eCommerce was also reported to be a major challenge, it seemingly had a lower degree of complexity and urgency in part because the legal requirements in this area were far less demanding. In e-Commerce, customer profiles and transactions in progress were enabled to trigger the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 presentation of select content, and content was found to lead into certain types of transactions with certain groups of potential customers. On basis of mining transactional data and maintaining very detailed customer profiles eCommerce organizations it was found had developed a HIGH SOPHISTICATION in fine-grained market and customer targeting. Structured transactional data and nonstructured content was reported to be increasingly joined in ways that sophisticated searches had become possible yielding a plethora of relevant information to identify new marketing opportunities. Also, customer relationship management \(CRM customers to keep their profiles updated such that more targeted approaches with pinpoint accuracy could be performed Proposition #18: Content management is more challenging in government than in the private sector due to volume of information and complexity of linked content 4.3 Stakeholders Relations Additional thematic analysis did not yield additional major concepts than previously reached in pilot. This demonstrates that the cluster is reaching a maturity stage in terms of developing a theory. Three areas needing attention appeared in e-Government: i collaboration and iii to E-Commerce, which mainly emphasized DIVERSITY OF STAKEHOLDERS only Governance in E-Government Relations The governance narrative reflected an ongoing concern in the e-Government side regarding management and CONTROL OF GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE. This appeared particularly important due to a clear border between elected officials and nominated professional staff. While POLITICAL SWINGS may help projects keep going, they may also require more explanations from the professional levels about the rationale of EGIS projects and the ways to measure their effectiveness [32] The importance of governance was also reflected through emphasizing POWER STRUGGLEs among different stakeholders to achieve their particular interests and the fear of stakeholders from losing control Proposition #19: Stakeholders governance structure 


Proposition #19: Stakeholders governance structure influences ECIS and EGIS design and deliverables Proposition #20: The process of convincing topleadership to support an EGIS project is harder than in private sector Diversity of Stakeholders This ties up nicely to the next narrative, diversity of stakeholders. To achieve a stable and balanced governance structure one needs to balance relationships among different types of stakeholders, elected and nominated officials, political and professional staff, and federal and local stakeholders. This objective becomes even harder when the boundaries of the system are rigidly fixed for a long period, most of the professional staff retains, the needs are vast and the interests are quite different from each other, pulling into different directions 12, 24]. For example, participants reported the fear to partner with ?a too big city?, and to create dependency on their resources and governance structure. Diversity appeared as a critical issue also for the e-Commerce sector due to shaky, temporary and unstable partnership structures. TRANSACTION-DRIVEN PARTNERSHIPS is the main reason for these weak partnership structures. When value of transaction determines the partnership, ad-hoc coalitions appear with different sizes, resources and political power. While partnerships of these sorts help to cover weaknesses of partners, they also make it harder to find a common denominator in shared set of goals Consequently, this increases the fear of partners, that the partnership can be unbundled at any given moment Proposition #21: The structure of alliances in eCommerce is weaker than the structure of alliances in eGovernment Collaboration as a Critical Component of EGovernment Finally COLLABORATION and INVOLVEMENT of stakeholders in the process were regarded as of highest importance in the e-Government sector. Collaboration was a necessity of many governmental entities, due to diversity of stakeholders and the need of scaling resources to better serve citizens. For example, while small cities benefited from array of information systems offered to them by bigger cities, bigger cities benefited from such collaborations by providing a better service to citizens reducing the cost of EGIS and provide a more standardize structure and control of process Proposition #22:  Government stakeholders tend to collaborate on mid-to-long terms while stakeholders in the private sector tend to collaborate on short-to-mid terms 4.4 Citizen/Customer Focus Citizen/Customer Needs CITIZEN/CUSTOMER NEEDS define much of the way processes and deliverables of technologies are designed both in e-Governement and e-Commerce. Nevertheless there is a big difference in the way these needs are being regarded and the reason for understanding them. The pilot highlighted the robust process B2C implements to deliver a product or a service: understand CUSTOMER NEEDS through mechanisms of surveys and TRACKING behavior gathering this information makes it possible for companies to focus on HIGH VALUE CUSTOMERS and to TARGET SEGMENTS OF CUSTOMERS according to personal characteristics; creating TAILORED BRANDS and services to these particular segments of population; finally, since needs are DYNAMIC, companies have to repeat this process. The main goal of the above illustrated process is to target customers according to their needs and lock them in with the service/product these companies suggest Needs serve in B2C as an instrumental good since is they Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


6 are valued because they lead to something else, a bottomline result, while for G2C needs of citizens serve as an intrinsic good, that is they are valued for their own sake In G2C needs evolved around the desire and obligation to serve these, for example through providing MORE SERVICE ON THE WEB, and a ONE STOP SHOP, one locus addressing and serving citizens needs. The technology in this case serves as the instrumental value to reach a better level of service to more people and to enhance consistency of content toward a CITIZEN-CENTRIC APPROACH. A concern raised in this context was that citizens are unaware that eGovernment services exist or consider them not to be on a high-level standard like the ones belong to the private sector Proposition #23: In both the private and public sectors designing information systems is highly influenced by customer needs, or citizens? needs respectively Proposition #24: Targeting customers via identifying individuals or groups is more sophisticated and frequent in e-Commerce than targeting citizens in e-Government Creating a Strong Customer Experience The other side of the coin of revealing the customer needs in B2C is creating these needs through shaping the CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE. While traditionally marketing were the one mainly interested in the customer experience perspective, recently other departments including R&amp;D joined in shaping and creating this experience. Companies understand that the experience determines much of the transaction or future activities of customers. Experience is a complex concept and companies try to reduce uncertain part from their point of view, the part that they cannot influence in the customer experience. Some aspects might be controllable by the companies, e.g. creating a SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT, enhancing an EASY and CUSTOMIZED online experience, and partially learning how to work with customer EMOTIONS effectively through the technology. There are some aspects that can be analyzed but less transformative, for example the CORE VALUES a customer assigns to an experience. An important note is that this issue was not found and raised in the eGovernment focus groups discussions Proposition #25: Creating and understanding a customer experience is more likely to be found in eCommerce than creating and understanding a citizen experience in e-Government Proposition #26: The higher the enhancement of the social environment of the customer, the more likely it is that the experience will be stronger Citizen Participation Understanding needs and evolving experience is a different matter than involving the customers in the process of developing a product or a service. Involving customers is reported to be prevalent in Web 2.0 applications [7, 37] but according to our findings, which involved other B2C interactions, it was totally ignored On the other hand e-Government assigns citizen participation in the process a high weight and importance Nevertheless, they make sure that the border between participation and control is not blurred. In other words G2C encourages PARTICIPATION in the decision making but not shifting the decision to the citizens Proposition #27:  Participation of citizens in G2C processes and in the design of EGIS is higher than participation of customers in B2C and ECIS, respectively 4.5 Digital Divide/s Similarly to first pilot conducted, we found that the cluster of digital divide was very minor to non-existent in terms of weight it was given by e-Commerce focus group while it served a big portion of the attention in their counterparts from the e-Government sector. The public 


sector is well aware to this issue and defines it through levels, first and second levels digital divide/s [3]. The first level of digital divide/s focuses on lack of infrastructure private and public and more generally it deals with ACCESS from a technological point of view. The secondlevel of digital divide/s refers mainly to the usage level From the users/citizen point of view it includes the lack of SKILLS or AWARENESS as to how to use information communications technologies effectively and efficiently From the government point of view it focuses on how to make content ACCESSIBLE \(e.g., content that would be accessible by people with disabilities challenge of accessibility from a LANGUAGE perspective that is not yet implemented. The pilot manifested that eGovernment is more focused on the second-level of digital divide/s, that is more on the content, than the traditional one E-Commerce marginalizes and neglects the concept of digital divide/s. It is of less importance to this sector since the drivers are transactions. For example localization of content will occur if a market exists and there is a demand from consumers. The concept itself implies a certain criterion of social responsibility, which contemporarily many companies like to brag about. This pilot demonstrates that words are nice but they are not applied necessarily in the interactions of companies and consumers. It emphasized differences in justifications to the existence of e-commerce vs. e-Government entities business and economic sustainability vs. service and executing policy. Digital divide/s is a ?nice to have concept to e-Commerce and is a top-priority challenge to e-Government Proposition #28: Addressing the challenges of the digital divide/s is more likely to be found in eGovernment than in e-Commerce Proposition #29: Addressing second-level digital divide/s takes more attention in EGIS projects than firstlevel digital divide/s 4.6 Discussion and Summary We set out to investigate, identify, and characterize the similarities and differences between e-Commerce and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 e-Government since we believed that the findings from such a study would benefit academic knowledge and eCommerce and e-Government practice alike. In the following we discuss and summarize our observations and insights Similarities between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #1 According to our findings both ECIS and EGIS benefit their respective organizations significantly more when the underlying workflows and processes are not only electronic re-embodiments of their paper-based antecedents but rather streamlined, simplified, or completely discarded and replaced by different workflows and processes, which take full advantage of the technology. This seems to be increasingly understood in both commerce and government. We also found completely new workflows in both sectors, which would not have been possible without ECIS and EGIS A great incentive for streamlining and redesigning workflows and processes we found in the increased degree of collaboration within and between the sectors which has become possible in an instantaneous fashion through ECIS and EGIS We further found that collaboration between partners within and across sectors works better when it unfolds on the basis of formal agreements. In government, it was noted that imposed collaboration works poorly as opposed to collaborative engagements based on freedom of choice Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on 


Interestingly, cross-sector collaboration based on ECIS/EGIS reduces cost and speeds up the process on both ends even if the private-sector partner provides systems, infrastructure, and maintenance Along with transactional collaboration and integration we found increasing collaboration within and across sectors also in the area of information sharing. If collaboration thrives, we saw even the partial alignment of strategic objectives as a result. Information quality played a critical role in this context. A positive feedback between perceived IQ, information sharing, and the strength of the relationship seemed to exist We found in both sectors that similar governance structures of organizations influenced how collaborative ECIS and EGIS were designed. Remarkably, in both sectors the perceived needs of citizens \(and customers respectively sytems. In e-Commerce, organizations were interested in providing a social environment, which was conducive to a positive experience as a customer These findings suggest that ECIS/EGIS-related phenomena have important characteristics in common which go beyond the mere technical resemblance of systems and methods. Process redesign practices might be a worthwhile subject of further study. Likewise, practices and principles of organizational and technical collaboration appear to provide valuable experiences to be shared Differences between e-Commerce and e-Government research question #2 However, we also found formidable differences in practices, principles, and drivers between e-Commerce and e-Government Transaction processing was found more sophisticated and of far higher volume in commerce than in government. On the other hand, information processing and management, including the archiving of electronic records we found much more developed in the public sector than with private firms. The drivers of innovation were stronger in e-Commerce than in a e-Government however, the overall sophistication of EGIS did not appear to lag behind ECIS by orders of magnitude. Yet private sector firms were found to make far more elaborate use of historical data and data in processing in order to optimize desired organizational outcomes than government agencies. Lower information quality was also found to lead to more immediate and economically more negative effects in e-Commerce than in e-Government Still, governments struggled more than commercial organizations to maintain acceptable levels of information quality leading to far greater challenges, for example, in content management Interestingly, leadership in government appeared to be more supportive of \(in particular, collaborative projects than their commercial counterparts. It also appeared that collaborative structures in the public sector were markedly stronger than those in the private sector Although many EGIS initiatives seemingly greatly cared about citizens? involvement and participation, we found that private firms had an edge in creating a customer experience.? Almost in contradiction to this finding, we noticed that citizens were far more influential in the design of EGIS than customers were in the design of ECIS. At this point, we refrain from speculative explanations for the lack of a sufficiently large base of data Overall, what we found different between eCommerce and e-Government suggests that the two phenomena follow different trajectories despite many similarities and technical commonalities. One obvious explanation lies in the sector-specific differences, which produce different drivers also in this area. It will be 


produce different drivers also in this area. It will be interesting to analyze to what extent Enterprise  Resource Planning \(ERP introduced in government, may help align the trajectories between e-Commerce and e-Government to a higher degree than we found in this study Surprise Findings The process of involving diverse participants and the rich data that evolved from the focus groups illuminated few important phenomena, which need to be discussed One strident finding is the absence of discussion or reference to the issue of ethics both in the e-Government and e-Commerce focus groups. A whole array of clusters Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 emerging from the discussions \(e.g., information management and digital divide not raise any challenges or concerns related to normative decisions of right and wrong. The prevalence of information technologies and usage involves many questions of ethics. Managers gathering and analyzing personal and sensitive information on customers government officials deciding to implement information systems according to political constraints, and accuracy and level of information quality provided to customers and citizens are few examples of the inter-linkage between ethics and e-Government and e-Commerce Striping decisions and strategy from a system of values and norms may be more easy and beneficial in the short horizon, but in the long run may cause inherent difficulties in managing e-government or e-commerce initiatives Another problematic phenomenon we found is the disregard of issues of digital divide/s by the private sector The public sector makes many efforts to understand and address needs of diverse groups in society. EGIS hels the public sector to reach growing portions of the population more efficiently and effectively, through for example providing information in different languages or making information more accessible to populations with disabilities. The private sector, on the other hand, may address indirectly issues of digital divide/s, including issues of access and usage, but only if economic profitability is attached to these needs. Digital divide/s was not raised in the private sector as a concept, because it is not addressed directly, but as a by-product of other initiatives Limitations and future research In our samples of participants from the two sectors we found after the focus groups were conducted that eGovernment experts on average were from higher levels in the organizational hierarchy than e-Commerce practitioners who were more technically oriented and versed. Our results, hence, may be skewed that they represent more strategic perspectives in e-Government and more operational/tactical perspectives in eCommerce We also recognize that what we present here is the result of an exploratory study based on a limited number of participants. Our study attempts to lay theoretical foundations for more quantitatively oriented research on the subject, which will lead us to more generalizable results. We plan to use the twenty-nine propositions developed here in a successive study aimed at closing that gap 5. Acknowledgement We are indebted to our two graduate students Tim Carlson from the Master of Science in Information Management \(MSIM doctoral program who helped us prepare for and conduct this research 6. References 


6. References  1] R. N. Anthony, Planning and Control Systems; a Framework for Analysis. Boston: Division of Research Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University, 1965 2] S. Arthur and J. Nazroo, "Designing Fieldwork Strategies and Materials," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 109-137 3] K. Barzilai-Nahon, "Gaps and Bits: Conceptualizing Measurements for Digital Divide/S," The Information Society, vol. 22, pp. 10, 2006 4] K. Barzilai-Nahon and H. J. Scholl, "Similarities and Differences of e-Commerce and e-Government: Insights from a Pilot Study," in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS40 Ed. Waikoloa/Big Island, HI: IEEE, 2007, pp. 92c\(1-10 5] B. Bozeman, " Exploring the Limits of Public and Private Sectors: Sector Boundaries as Maginot Line.," Public Administration Review, vol. 48, pp. 672-674, 1988 6] Y.-P. Chang and J. Yan, "Positioning in a New Dynamic ECommerce Business Model," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing \(WICOM 2007 IEEE, 2007, pp. 3592 - 3595 7] E. Constantinides and S. J. Fountain, "Web 2.0: Conceptual Foundations and Marketing Issues," Journal of Direct, Data and Digital Marketing Practice, vol. 9, pp. 231-244, 2008 8] J. W. Creswell, Educational Research: Planning Conducting, and Evaluating Quantitative and Qualitative Research, 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Merrill, 2005 9] S. S. Dawes, "Interagency Information Sharing: Expected Benefits, Manageable Risks," Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, vol. 15, pp. 377-394, 1996 10] G. DeSanctis and M. S. Poole, "Capturing the Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration Theory," Organization Science, vol. 5, pp. 121-147, 1994 11] H. Finch and J. Lewis, "Focus Groups," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J. Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 170198 12] L. S. Flak and S. Nordheim, "Stakeholders, Contradictions and Salience: An Empirical Study of a Norwegian G2g Effort," in Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, \(HICSS39 eGovernment Track 75tig 13] G. E. Gorman, P. Clayton, M. L. Rice-Lively, and L Gorman, Qualitative Research for the Information Professional: A Practical Handbook. London: Library Association Publishing, 1997 14] T. L. Greenbaum, The Handbook for Focus Group Research, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 1998 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 15] T. L. Greenbaum, Moderating Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Group Facilitation. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 16] A. Groenlund, "State of the Art in e-Gov Research Surveying Conference Publications," International Journal of Electronic Government Research, vol. 1, pp. 1-25, 2005 17] A. T.-k. Ho, "Reinventing Local Governments and the EGovernment Initiative," Public Administration Review, vol 62, pp. 434-444, 2002 18] M. Janssen, G. Kuk, and R. W. Wagenaar, "A Survey of Web-Based Business Models for E-Government in the Netherlands," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 25 pp. 202, 2008 


pp. 202, 2008 19] C. Kaylor, R. Deshazo, and D. Van Eck, "Gauging EGovernment: A Report on Implementing Services among American Cities," Government Information Quarterly, vol 18, pp. 293-307, 2002 20] C. H. Kaylor, "The Next Wave of e-Government: The Challenges of Data Architecture," Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, vol. 31 pp. 18-22, 2005 21] R. Klischewski and H. J. Scholl, "Information Quality as the Capstone of E-Government Integration, Interoperation and Information Sharing," Electronic Government, an International Journal, vol. 5, pp. 203-285, 2008 22] R. A. Krueger and M. A. Casey, Focus Groups: A Practical Guide for Applied Research, 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000 23] E. Madriz, "Focus Groups in Feminist Research," in Handbook of Qualitative Research, N. K. Denzin and Y. S Lincoln, Eds., 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications, 2000, pp. 835-850 24] A. Mathie and J. C. Greene, "Stakeholder Participation in Evaluation: How Important Is Diversity?" Evaluation and Program Planning, vol. 20, pp. 279-285, 1997 25] L. Mohan and W. K. Holstein, "Eis: It Can Work in the Public Sector," MIS Quarterly, vol. 14, pp. 434-448, 1990 26] E. W. T. Ngai and F. K. T. Wat, "A Literature Review and Classificatiuon of Electronic Commerce Research Information &amp; Management, vol. 39, pp. 415-429, 2002 27] W. J. Orlikowski and D. Robey, "Information Technology and the Structuring of Organizations," Information Systems Research, vol. 2, pp. 143-169, 1991 28] R. Park, "Measuring Factors That Influence the Success of E-Government Initiatives," in 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS41 IEEE, 2008, pp. 218 - 218 29] M. Q. Patton, Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods, 3 ed. Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage Publications 2002 30] H. Rainey, R. Backoff, and C. Levine, "Comparing Public and Private Organizations," Public Administration Review vol. 36, pp. 233-244, 1976 31] J. Ritchie, J. Lewis, and E. Gillian, "Designing and Selecting Samples," in Qualitative Research Practice: A Guide for Social Science Students and Researchers, J Ritchie and J. Lewis, Eds. London; Thousand Oaks, Calif Sage Publications, 2003, pp. 77-108 32] K. A. Schildt, S. Beaumaster, and S. Bailey, "Organization Antecedents of Successful It Management," presented at Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS'06 Government Track, Kauai, 2006 33] B. C. Stahl, "The Paradigm of E-Commerce in EGovernment and E-Democracy," in Electronic Government Strategies and Implementation, W. Huang, K. Siau, and K K. Wei, Eds. Hershey PA: Idea Group Pub., 2005, pp. 1-19 34] A. L. Strauss and J. M. Corbin, Basics of Qualitative Research: Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications, 1998 35] Y. Wang, J. Li, P. Liu, and F. Yang, "Electronic Commerce Research Review: Classification and Analysis," in 3rd International Conference on Wireless Communications Networking and Mobile Computing, \(WiCom 2007 Shanghai, PR China: IEEE, 2007, pp. 3505 - 3508 36] M. Ward and S. Mitchell, "A Comparison of the Strategic Priorities of Public and Private Sector Information Resource Executives," Government Information Quarterly vol. 21, pp. 284-304, 2004 37] M. Zajicek, "Web 2.0: Hype or Happiness?" presented at Proceedings of the 2007 international cross-disciplinary conference on Web accessibility \(W4A 2007 


  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





