The Relevance of Integration for Knowledge Management Success Conceptual and Empirical Findings   Alexander Orth Accenture Alexander.Orth@accenture.com  Stefan Smolnik European Business School \(EBS Stefan.Smolnik@ebs.edu  Murray E. Jennex San Diego State University mjennex@mail.sdsu.edu    Abstract  Many organizations pursue knowledge 
management \(KM\ initiatives, with different degrees of success. One key aspect of KM often neglected in practice is following an integrated and holistic approach. Complementary, KM researchers have increasingly focused on factors that determine KM success and examined whether the metrics used to measure KM initiatives are reasonable. In this article, the importance of integration issues for successful KM is analyzed by means of a case study of a KM initiative at an international consulting company. The investigations demonstrate the importance of an integrated KM approach an 
integrated view of KM strategy, KM processes, KM technology, and company culture to ensure KM success   1  Introduction and overview 1.1. Subject and purpose of the article  Knowledge management \(KM\as progressed from an emergent concept to an increasingly common function in business organizations over the past 20 years In ten s e co m p eti t i on f i c k le con s um ers   shorter product life cycles, and globalization are 
some of the driving forces that have led to increased inspection of the usage, application, and leveraging of knowledge in organizations [3  Suc c e ssf ul K M i s  expected to have a positive influence on a company s performance and effectiveness con s is ts of critical enablers, such as employee training teamwork, and performance measurement [7  Th i s  leads to the first proposition KM is crucial for a company to succeed Successful KM depends on the achievement of critical 
success factors based on supporting conditions Although KM systems \(KMS\ are shown to provide benefits to organizations e y  like many other types of information systems \(IS have a high chance of failure due to both technical and ITrelated factors, as well as KM-related cultural behavioral, and strategic factors  Problems experienced with KM initiatives are assumed to be the result of one or more of the following three factors 
1\ A focus on the technological dimension of KM i.e. KMS\ether with a lack of attention to the social dimension \(e.g., organizational culture\ [9      2\The absence of a clearly defined purpose and value for the business. In this context, a key requirement for realizing the business value of KM is the institutionalization of KM practices and systems into people s natural work flow       
3\he failure of KM frameworks, concepts and systems to adopt corporate contexts specific requirements  Giv e n  its f o c u s on people an d their interactions, KM is intrinsically highly context specific. Each organizational setting poses its own challenges for successful KM These aspects lead to the second proposition An integrated and holistic KM initiative, as well as the complete embedding of KM in organizations is essential for KM success Based on both propositions, the overall goal of 
this article is to analyze and investigate connections and interdependencies between KM success and an integrated and holistic view of the subject area The corresponding research question can be formulated as follows To what extent do KM success factors accepted in literature support an integrative perspective and does such a perspective account for KM success     Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 
 


1.2. Research approach and structure  Qualitative case study research was employed for this study. Section 2 introduces Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS and its performance measurement system. Section 3 is an overview of KM and KMS success. It also discusses the success assessment framework of Jennex and Olfman Section 4 compares the key performance indicators of Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS and the critical success factors of Jennex and Olfman s success assessment framework, using the case study findings. Section 5 concludes the article by outlining the findings, limitations, and further research areas  2  Foundations on integrated KMS architectures  2.1. Background of KMS approaches  Alavi/Leidner define KM as a systemic and organizationally specified process for acquiring organizing, and communicating knowledge of employees so that other employees may make use of it to be more effective and productive in their work   y s t e m s are clari f ie d as  IT-based systems developed to support and enhance the organizational processes of knowledge creation, storage/retrieval transfer and application 2 Alternatively, Jennex [15 t o ok a ho l i st i c  vi e w o f a  KMS as a system created by combining content organizational processes, users and technical solutions to facilitate the capture, storage, retrieval transfer, and reuse of knowledge to improve organizational and individual decision-making. This holistic view, which integrates people, process, and technology, is a Churchman [18 vi e w o f K M t h a t  allows the KMS to take the form required to accomplish KM goals Two kinds of KMS implementations are used to address the comparison between KM approaches: an approach based on infrastructure or generic systems KM in the large\d an approach based on processes or tasks \(KM in the small h e latter perspective mainly focuses on employees usage of knowledge in a task, process, or project that already possesses a common context of understanding in order to improve the effectiveness of that task process or project [17 th e oth e r h a n d th e f o r m er  perspective assumes that users do not have a common context of understanding. It concentrates on the construction of a KMS which supports KM processes throughout the organization and which captures more knowledge contexts [17   3 0  T h e i n t e gr a t e d  K M S  is designed to fit both aspects. The approach based on processes or tasks supports specific tasks and processes, whereas the infrastructure or genericsystem-orientated perspective helps to integrate the knowledge within a system in order to use it efficiently across the organization   2.2  Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS  Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS was developed by combining desk research, multiple case studies, and action research. The field research involved a KM initiative at PricewaterhouseCoopers as well as studies and workshops with ten organizations in the context of the Customer Knowledge Management competence centre at the University of St. Gallen Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS consists vertically of three layers \(strategy, process, and system\nd horizontally of four pillars \(content competence, collaboration, and orientation\. All these elements are influenced by the organizational culture figure 1  Figure 1. Overview of Riemppês integrated KMS architecture   The strategy layer is composed of the business strategy, the KM strategy and KM goals, as well as the measurement system. In the latter, metrics are defined to monitor the progress of the KM initiatives The measurement system of the integrated KMS architecture will be discussed in more detail in the next section The process layer consists of business and support processes. KM processes constitute support processes and are subject to the KM strategy. Employees with Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


specific KM roles execute the KM processes by accomplishing specific KM activities The system layer describes the integrated KMS which is ideally accessed through a portal. The KMS supports the KM processes and is composed of the following four functional pillars 1. Content relates to the management of information objects, its context, and the management of content itself 2. Collaboration refers to the identification exchange, development, and usage of knowledge 3. Competence addresses all aspects of individual and collective competencies in an organization 4. Orientation is composed of all search navigation, and administration functions required in the areas of content, competence, and collaboration The architecture for integrated KMS distinguishes between different dimensions of integration. The elements of the architecture described above should be integrated along the four key dimensions 1. Integration with the culture is the central dimension of integration. It is aligned to norms values, and paradigms that need to be reflected when configuring an integrated KMS 2. Vertical integration between the three layers firstly indicates that KM processes should be in line with the KM strategy and, secondly, that the configuration of the strategy and process layer influences the design of the system layer 3. Horizontal integration refers to the integration between the four pillars of the architecture. It can be achieved on the system layer as well as on the process layer level 4. Integration of the KM processes and roles in the KMS finally means that the KMS should be designed in order to support employees in the execution of their roles w i t h i n bus i n ess an d  support processes as well as related KM processes      2.3  The measurement system of Riempp s integrated KMS architecture  The implementation of this vision of Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS can be allegorized on the basis of a basic KM process model consisting of the following four steps 1. Create knowledge transparency \(about the knowledge that already exists in an organisation, knowledge managing processes and respective IS 2 Promote knowledge exchange 3 Control knowledge development 4 Ensure knowledge efficiency  Within step 4, the target achievement of the previous steps should be verified by taking quality improvements as well as time and cost reductions into consideration. In order to fulfil this requirement the architecture provides a measurement system on the strategy layer. The achievement of specific KM goals can be verified by means of key performance indicators \(KPIs\ and respective index values \(IVs The KM strategy similarly refers to the four pillars of content, collaboration, competence and orientation as well as to the culture of the organization. The KM goals, KPIs and IVs are subordinate to the KM strategy and mostly only refer to single pillars or to the culture \(see figure 2  Figure 2. Detailed view of the strategy layer 27] modified  Riempp defines a total of 78 KPIs which according to an integrated and holistic view, refer to the different dimensions of integration within the architectur s ee h ttp www ebs edu index.php?id=HICSS42 for an overview of the KPIs This means that Riempp s KPIs verify the integrational success or successful integration of KMS To conclude this section, three meaningful examples that illustrate how well these KPIs reflect integration and verify integration success are briefly described [2  KPI 22 Clear competence management goals  is an example of how a KPI verifies the success of vertical integration with the competence management goals formulated by the KM strategy and the KM processes constructed accordingly KPI 14 Information objects are ideally stored in an integrated, database-based, information memory which is applicable across all platforms s an Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


example of the verification of successful horizontal integration on the system layer. For example, an information object can be generated \(content pillar and used in a collaboration room \(collaboration pillar\terwards KPI 1 Convenient integration of information objects in task execution strates how a KPI verifies the integration of the KM processes and roles in the KMS  3  KM/KMS success and critical success factors  3.1. Foundations  Success is basically understood as the achievement of goals, with goals defined as prospective aspired states. In the business management context, profit usually constitutes the supreme goal. This single goal does, however, not provide sufficient guidance for an organization to grow and develop. It ultimately needs to accommodate a spectrum of goals, including the goals of KM initiatives   The achievement of objectives and the aligned successful completion of a KM initiative result in KM success. Jennex et al. define KM and KMS success as a multidimensional concept. Each includes capturing the right knowledge, getting the right knowledge to the right user, and using this knowledge to improve organizational and/or individual performance. KM success is measured using the dimensions of impact on business processes, impact on strategy, leadership, and knowledge content   This paper takes the position that KMS success has a direct effect on KM success, making the terms interchangeable in the rest of the article Success factor research explicitly focuses on analyzing factors that influence success by defining performance metrics to make the influence of these factors measurable and comp T h e ter m  success factor traces back to Dani h o u s ed  the perception for the first time in the IS context. It was afterwards broadened by Rockert to businessrelated aspects Critical success factors thus are, for any business the limited number of areas in which results, if they are satisfactory, will ensure successful competitive performance for the organization. They are the few key areas where things must go right for the business to flourish. If results in these areas are not adequate the organization s efforts for the period will be less than desired     3.2  The Jennex/Olfman KM success assessment framework  KM/KMS success measurement is crucial from an organizational as well as an academic perspective, as the evaluation of KM initiatives is essential to understand how KMS should be built and implemented. Several KM/KMS success effectiveness models have been proposed in order to support the successful execution of KM initiatives and ensure KM/KMS success Jennex and Olfman developed a model assessment framework based on comparing existing KM/KMS success models to KM/KMS success factors. It determined the degree to which the models have a theoretical foundation, as well as whether the models could be applied to both approaches \(the one based on process and tasks, as well as the one based on infrastructure and generic systems\ order to implement a KMS  In the following two sections, the main results of Jennex and Olfman s research will be highlighted  3.2.1  KM/KMS success factors  The current KM literature contains reams of studies and research work that address and deal with KM/KMS success factors. Jennex and Olfman constructed a critical success factor \(CSF\framework by reviewing the existing literature. Several studies that focus on KM/KMS success were found and a total of 78 KM initiatives or organizations were investigated. They identified success factors that were mentioned in the literature, combined them into composite CSFs. and ranked the composite CSFs according to the number of authors mentioning the factors  The outcome was a set of 12 KM/KMS CSFs CSFs SF1 to SF4 are cons idered the key CSFs, as they were mentioned in more than 50% of the investigated success factor studies a ble 1 lis ts  the set of CSFs in their rank order \(SF1 to SF4 are highlighted by the dotted frame  3.2.2  KM/KMS success models  Theoretical or process-orientated success models classify success in a broader context in order to also encompass causal connections, indirect impacts, and back coupling. Current KM literature mentions several success models, for example, the KM Value Chain of Bots/De Bruijn e KM S u cces s Model of Massey, Montoya-Weiss and O Dris e  Lindsey KM Effectiveness Model [21 th e KMS  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


Success Model of Maier d C ooper s Evolutionary Model for KM Success  Additionally, Jennex and Olfman themselves present a KMS Success Mod at is bas e d on  the DeLone/McLean IS Success  T h e 12  CSFs of Jennex and Olfman \(presented in the previous section\ can be applied to the various success models to a greater or lesser extent. The Jennex Olfman KM success model is considered the best fit and will be used in the rest of this paper  Table 1. The 12 success factors of Jennex and Olfman  1 7   4  The relevance of integration for KM/KMS success  4.1. A comparison of success factors and key performance indicators  The Jennex/Olfmann KM success model meets the requirements of both the KM approach based on tasks and processes and the one based on infrastructure and generic systems, which is the crucial and vital principle of an integrated KMS  Figure 3. Classification of KPIs into the architecture for integrated KMS   Figure 4. Graphical illustration of the key performance indicator assignment  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


The success model also has a theoretical basis  the DeLone/McLean IS Success a ll y   the Jennex/Olfman success model allegorizes the KMS CSFs the best. It is suggested that one reason for the close fit between the CSFs and the Jennex/Olfman success model is that both KM approaches are addressed. In other words, it supports the integration of both perspectives. This again suggests that integration aspects and KM/KMS success are interlocked The extent to which the 12 CSFs and the Jennex/Olfman model account for integration aspects will be examined by comparing the 78 KPIs of Riempp s measurement model to the 12 CSFs Riempp has further classified his KPIs into one of the eight architecture interfaces \(figure 3 Each KPI of Riempp s architecture was verified as to whether it could be allocated to none, one, or more than one of the Jennex and Olfman CSFs. A total of 76 of 78 critical KPIs could be assigned to one, and frequently to two or three of the Jennex and Olfman CSFs. Figure 4 illustrates this mapping graphically  4.2. Discussion of conceptual findings  Based on this comparison of CSFs to KPIs, the following main findings can be derived 1. There are definite interdependencies between the Riempp KPIs and the Jennex and Olfman CSFs A more detailed analysis of the assignment results indicates that certain measures have to be executed in order to achieve the 12 Jennex and Olfman CSFs These actions are in turn reflected in the 76 Riempp KPIs On the one hand this means the 12 Jennex and Olfman CSFs can be broken down into 76 smaller KPI elements that represent the measures that have to be introduced. On the other hand, the 76 KPIs of Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS can be accounted for by the 12 CSFs In order to achieve, for instance, SF4 of Jennex/Olfman s model Motivation and commitment of users, including incentives and training everal of Riempp s KPIs need to be embraced. Incentive systems have to be implemented KPI 4\imple transfer of knowledge between competences and searching employees needs to be ensured \(KPIs 2, 5, 9, 28, 37\, experts and KM roles have to engage themselves \(KPIs 42, 49, 52, 55 training and further education need to conducted KPIs 10, 20, 33, 51\d so forth Going a step further, the comparison implies that the achievement of the 12 Jennex/Olfman CSFs results from the achievement of the 76 Riempp KPIs Consequently, the 76 KPIs incorporating integration success need to be attained to achieve KMS success 2. An extensive amount of Riempp s KPIs can be clearly assigned to either SF1, SF2, SF3, SF4, SF5 SF8 or SF10. The KPIs that can be allocated to SF1 and SF10 \(technical success factors\er to horizontal integration, while those that can be assigned to SF2, SF3 and SF8 \(strategic success factors\er to vertical integration  Table 2. Quantitative illustration of the key findings of the assignment  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


Finally, the KPIs allotted to SF4 and SF5 \(cultural and personal success factors\ comparably to horizontal integration, integration of KM processes and roles in the KMS, as well as to cultural integration. The other Riempp KPIs, those which could be assigned to SF6, SF7, SF9, SF11, and SF12 could not be grouped as precisely. However, all of the remaining KPIs also refer to the different dimensions of integration Based on these results, it can be stated that the 12 Jennex/Olfman CSFs correspond more or less equally to the different integration dimensions of Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS Table 2 provides a more detailed view of the assignment of the relevant success factors to the different dimensions of integration. The first three columns of the table refer to the 12 Jennex and Olfman CSFs. Column 1 shows the ID of each success factor, column 3 describes each factor roughly, and column 2 illustrates how the Jennex Olfman CSFs were grouped based on the outcome of the comparison \(compare main finding 2 The following columns of the table refer to Riempp s architecture of integrated KMS. Column 4 shows which Riempp KPIs were assigned to which Jennex/Olfman CSFs and column 5 outlines the number of assigned factors. Finally, columns 6 to 9 indicate to which specific dimension of integration the single Jennex/Olfman CSFs and, hence, the assigned Riempp KPIs refer. The columns 6, 7, 8 and 9 basically legitimate the grouping of CSFs in column 2 The results of the comparison show that achievement of the 12 Jennex/Olfman CSFs results from an achievement of the 76 Riempp KPIs. The logical conclusion is that organizations need to cope with Riempp s KPIs in order to attain KM/KMS success. The fact that the KPIs of Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS largely indicates integration success leads to the following basic assumption Integrated KM determines KM/KMS success   4.3  Observations from an international consulting company case  This case study was conducted in the context of a merger between two international consulting firms. A KM initiative was launched within the scope of the post-merger integration activities. The primary focus of the initiative was the introduction and announcement of new KMS functionalities and tools as well as the integration and adjustment of existing KM structures The measurement and evaluation of the success of the initiatives are ideally suited to verify the assumption that integrated KM determines KM/KMS success. The verification process consists of two consecutive steps Firstly, the achievement of Riempp s KPIs was verified by means of a structured survey and a structured interview. The survey consisted of 41 questions, mainly focused on cultural, personal, and strategic success factors. The questionnaire was distributed to 50 employees directly involved in the KM initiative and 17 analyzable questionnaires were returned \(a return rate of 34%\/no questions and five-point Likert-type scale items were used to obtain feedback on the achievement of CSFs. After an exhaustive analysis of the participants answers, the authors decided that a critical success factor was achieved if more than 50% of the participants demonstrated acceptance \(in respect of a yes/no question\ the median of responses was at least three \(in case of a scaled question The structured interview was conducted with the chief technology architect of the acquired company It consisted of 25 questions and focused on technical success factors. The interview guideline only consisted of yes/no questions, which basically determined the existence or non-existence of technical conditions, functionalities, and tools. The nature of these questions allowed us to choose a single person as an interview partner The survey as well as the interview dealt with those of Riempp s KPIs that can be assigned to CSFs SF1, SF2, SF3, SF4, SF5, SF8 and SF10 the ones that can be described as being either a technical strategic or cultural and personal success factor. The main results of the first step are summarized in table 3  Table 3. Attainment degree of the success factors of Jennex/Olfmanês model  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


The results lead to three assumptions 1 The technical success factors were achieved due to horizontal integration on the system layer  2 The cultural and personal success factors were achieved due to horizontal and cultural integration as well as to the integration of the KM processes and roles in the KMS 3 The strategic success factors were not achieved due to a lack of vertical integration across the three layers These three assumptions were validated by five semi-structured interviews with the initiators and key managers of the KM initiative. This constitutes the second step of the case study. The results and insights of the first step were investigated and discussed in more detail All questions focused more or less equally on the following factors 1\Technical aspects \(especially regarding the integration of the KMS into the corporate portal 2\ersonal and cultural aspects \(especially regarding the horizontal integration of KM processes the integration of the KM processes with the KMS and the operational and organizational structure 3\ic aspects \(especially regarding the transparency and communication of the KM strategy and KM goals, as well as the knowledge structure The elementary and most meaningful results of the verification of the three assumptions are discussed below 1. Horizontal integration on the system layer was achieved by integrating the IT infrastructure along the four horizontal pillars \(content, collaboration competence, and orientation\ of Riempp s architecture. Data storages are integrated with each other per pillar, thus allowing the standardization of diverse applications. On the application level, integration basically appears in the complexity of internal and external applications. An integrated regulation framework can be ensured by a standardized and continuously used taxonomy, which also forms the basis for a pillar of comprehensive indexing in order to allocate an overall search function. A complex portal solution is available and KM functions and applications, as well as the corresponding content are deeply integrated. The integration of portal applications mainly refers to an integrated search for content, competences and collaboration rooms, as well as the aligned use of search engines. The presentation level of KMS is realized by the use of the graphical user interface of the company s portal whose uniform configuration ensures an integrated working environment for its users 2. The cultural and personal success factors refer to the motivation and commitment of users, as well as a company s predominant organizational culture These factors were achieved due to horizontal integration on the process level, cultural integration as well as the integration of KM processes and roles in the KMS. In respect of motivation and commitment, it is noteworthy that all employees participate in KM activities voluntarily, but show a high intrinsic motivation. The company s knowledge competencies and KM experts are also highly motivated and engaged. They regularly present themselves as role models in diverse communities In this context, the enormous freedom of scope for creation, collaboration, documentation, and reflection needs to be mentioned. All of these points can be ascribed to the processes and roles successful integration with the KMS and company s culture Various training and further education measures physical training, as well as audio and web cast sessions\ were introduced in the beginning of the post-merger integration phase to support these developments. Another positive aspect was the active usage of content management functions and competence directories by authors, competencies, and searching employees, as well as the satisfactory assessment of the feedback opportunities between these employees. This was ensured through a satisfactory horizontal integration on the process level 3. The strategic success factors focus on the overall knowledge strategy, the knowledge structure in an organization, and the aligned articulation of KM goals. The achievement of these success factors failed due to the lack of vertical integration across the three layers \(strategy, process and system layer the architecture. The KM topic was not tightly integrated into the overall change management process of the post-merger integration activities. No comprehensive information policy, concrete authorization system, or employee incentive system have been introduced. There was also no clear and definite objective for the KM areas content competence and community management. The KM goals are not consistent with the overall organizational goals and the understanding of the KM and KMS meaning, aims, and objectives needs to be communicated more clearly throughout the company Summarizing the investigation, it can be stated that the attainment or failure of the success factors depends on the degree of integration. The basic assumption has therefore been strengthened The necessity for an integrated and holistic view is outlined by the case study horizontal integration cultural integration, and the integration of KM processes and KM roles into the KMS support the usage and frequency of use of the KMS, but do not Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


ensure that the KMS is used in the most effective and efficient way In order to control the usage of KMS to strengthen the organization s performance and the achievement of strategic goals, a company s overall strategy and goals need to be aligned to KM strategy and KM goals. In terms of vertical integration, KM strategy and goals need to be transparent and clearly communicated so that all employees act in concert and walk into the same direction Hence, the described KM initiative can be evaluated as unsuccessful. The technical and cultural conditions required for success were established, but the strategic aspects were largely disregarded  5  Conclusions, limitations, and further research  The overall goal of this paper to analyze and investigate the connections and interdependencies between KM success and an integrated and holistic perspective on KM has been achieved. The CSFs of Jennex/Olfman s model were identified as widely accepted factors as they are, firstly, based on the cognitions of accredited and valued KM publications and studies referring to a total of 78 KM initiatives Secondly, they can be applied to all elemental KM success models. The 78 KPIs of Riempp s model focus on different dimensions of integration and evaluate successful KM in terms of integration success In summary, the literature review and comparison of CSFs and KPIs show that it is feasible to focus on achieving Riempp s KPIs, thus concentrating on integration. Ultimately, this approach will lead to an achievement of the 12 Jennex/Olfman CSFs and ensure KM initiatives success The results support the assumption that in order to achieve KM success, which as defined by Jennex Smolnik, and Croasdell \(section 3.1 is understood as a multidimensional concept, all elements of the integrated KMS architecture need to be addressed in a structured and integrated approach The case study supports these findings. KMS are indeed used intensively by employees. However, due to a lack of transparency regarding the KM strategy and goals and a lack of vertical integration, the KMS are not used totally efficiently in terms of an improvement in the company s performance. A broad consideration of all the integration dimensions is necessary to execute KM initiatives successfully It would be tempting to conclude and not only  to assume that integrated KM determines KM success. In order to do so, more real-life cases need to be conducted. This can be regarded as a limitation of the findings in this article, as well as an area for further research work Additionally, effort should be made to develop an integrated KM success model The framework can either focus fully on Riempp s architecture for integrated KMS or on selected aspects. In respect of the framework s configuration, an absolutely new model could be developed, or an existing model for example, the Jennex/Olfman success model could be extended appropriately  References  1  A l av i, M Le idne r  D  E Knowledge Management Systems: Issues, Challenges, and Benefits  Communications of the AIS 1:Article 7, 1999  2  A l av i, M  L e idne r  D  E Review: Knowledge Management and Knowledge Management Systems Conceptual Foundations and Research Issues  MIS Quarterly Vol. 25, No.1, pp.107-136, 2001  3 A n a n ta t m ula  V  K a nu ng o S Structuring the Underlying Relations among the Knowledge Management Outcomes  Journal of Knowledge Management Vol.10, No.4, pp. 25-42, 2006    A r go t e  L   M c E v i l y  B  Rea g an s R  Managing Knowledge in Organizations An Integrative Framework and Review of Emerging Themes  Management Science Volume 49, Issue 4/2003 pp.571-582, 2003  5 Ba ls C., Sm olnik  S Rie m pp, G  A Case for Integrated Knowledge Management  Proceedings of the 4th Conference Professional Knowledge Management: Experiences and Visions GITO, Berlin 2007   Bo t s   P  De Bru i j n  H  Effective Knowledge Management in Professional Organizations  Proceedings of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Computer Society Press, 2002  7 Chong  S Cho i, Y  S   Critical Factors in the Successful Implementation of Knowledge Management  Journal of Knowledge Management Practice In the Knowledge Garden Volume 6, 2005  8 r L   P   An Evolutionary Model for KM Success  Proceedings of the 39 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE Computer Society Press, 2006  9 Da m o d a ran  L  Olp h e rt, W   Barriers and Facilitators to the Use of Knowledge Management Systems  Behaviour & Information Technology Volume 19, Issue 6/2000, pp. 405-413, 2000 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 
 


1 Dan i el  D R  Management Information Crisis  Harvard Business Review Vol. 39, No. 5, pp. 111112, 1961  11  D a v e nport, T D e L ong D   Be e r s  M Successful Knowledge Management Projects  MIT Sloan Management Review Volume 39, Issue 2/1998, pp 43-57, 1998  12  D e L one W  H   McLe a n E.R   Information Systems Success: The Quest for the Dependent Variable  Information Systems Research Nr.3, pp.60-95, 1992  13  Fa he y   L   P r us a k L   The Evelen Deadliest Sins of Knowledge Management  California Management Review Volume 40, Issue 3/1998, pp. 265-275, 1998  14 G r uber M Der Wandel von Erfolgsfaktoren Mittelst‰ndischer Unternehmen  DUV Wiesbaden 2000  1 Jen n e x  M  E   Knowledge Management Systems  International Journal of Knowledge Management  1\(2\ pp. i-iv, 2005  16  J e nne x  M. E O l f m a n, L   Assessing Knowledge Management Success  International Journal of Knowledge Management 1\(2\, pp. 33-49, 2005  17  J e nne x  M. E.  O l fm a n L   A Model of Knowledge Management Success  International Journal of Knowledge Management 2\(3\, pp. 51-68, 2006  1 Jen n e x M  E   Knowledge Management in Support of Education  First International Conference on Education Reform Khon Kaen, Thailand, November 9, 2007  19 J e nne x  M. E Cr oa s d e ll D   S m olnik  S Towards Measuring Knowledge Management Success  Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE Computer Society, 2008  20 Ka nk a nha lli, A T a n, B K w ok Ke e   W   Contributing Knowledge to Electronic Knowledge Repositories An Empirical Investigation  MIS Quarterly Volume 29, Issue 1/2005, pp. 113-143 2005  21 L i nds ey  K   Measuring Knowledge Management Effectiveness: A Task Contingent Organizational Capabilities Perspective  Eight Americas Conference on Information Systems pp. 2085-2090, 2002  22 Mai e r R Knowledge Management Systems  Information and Communication Technologies for Knowledge Management  Springe Berlin 2002  2 M a sse y   A  P M o nto y aW e iss M  M  O Driscoll T.T Knowledge Management in Pursuit of Performance: Insights from Nortel Networks  MIS Quarterly 26\(3\, pp.269-289, 2002  24 Mc D e r m ott R   Why Information Technology Inspired but Cannot Deliver Knowledge Management  California Management Review Volume 41, Issue 4/1999, pp. 103-117, 1999  25  Mc K e e n J  D Za c k M.H   Si ng h, S  Knowledge Management and Organizational Performance: An Exploratory Survey  Proceedings of the 39 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE Computer Society Press, 2006  2 cker  R  Erfolg von Unternehmen aus Betriebswirtschaflicher Sicht  Unternehmerisch erfolgreiches Handeln pp. 53-66, 1999  27 R i em pp G   Integrierte Wissensmanagement-Systeme Architektur und Praktische Anwendung  Springer Berlin, 2004  2 ckert  J  Chief Executives Define Their Own Data Needs  Harvard Business Review Vol. 57, No.2 S.81-93, 1979  29  Sc hm a l e n C., K unte r  M  W e indlm a ie r, H   Erfolgsfaktorenforschung: Theoretische Grundlagen Methodische Vorgehensweise und Anwendungserfahrung in Projekten f¸r die Ern‰hrungsindustrie  Proceedings der 45. Tagung f¸r Gesellschafts- und Sozialwissenschaften des Landbaues Gˆttingen 2005  30 Sm olnik   S Wissensmanagement mit Topics Maps in Kollaborativen Umgebungen Identifikation Explikation und Visualisierung von Semantischen Netzwerken in Organisationalen Ged‰chtnissen  Shaker Aachen 2006    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 
 


of end-to-end operational process considerations to provide emergency medical care as seen through the eyes and experience of a patient. The top level of this diagram represents a linear work flow of a patient from emergency notification \(e.g., ACN, 911 phone call provision, and arrival and definitive care provision at an emergency department and/or trauma center Based on findings, emergency responder processes may be viewed as dynamic or sequential. But the sequential representation is meant to take into account the patient experience, an important system design characteristic as described by Schooley and Horan [18 2. As shown in the second level \(from the top Figure 5, a multi-organizational view of the system architecture is an essential consideration for the ICTIN concept. As described throughout this paper and illustrated in Figure 6, many organizations are involved in emergency response activities, from emergency notification through care provision. Many other practitioners and organizations are involved in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 crash analysis, public health research, patient outcome research, and other analyses. Therefore, the architecture needs to accommodate the information and data needs of a wide variety of organizations including authorized access to information, while maintaining the privacy and security of patient information. Fortunately, the technology exists to enable these software quality attributes.  How to implement such attributes in a complex large-scale environment is a challenge yet to be resolved 3. Dynamic information sharing considerations are represented on the third and fourth levels of Figure 5 From this analysis, and prior research, a number of information types, or taxonomies, are captured analyzed, and distributed across EMS organizational actors and hardware and software systems. The view represented here is one that would allow for information to be fully utilized by authorized emergency responders \(and information systems downstream? points of an emergency response episode. For example, rather than waiting for a paramedic to click the ?submit report? button of an electronic patient care record, patient information would be dynamically \(and incrementally physicians at a receiving ED or trauma center. To enable such open systems, web services and related information architecture standards would need to be implemented across organizations and information systems so that both ?push? and ?pull? functionality could exist for any and all authorized users 4. End-to-end performance reporting capabilities across organizations and information systems are also enabled through such an architecture. The ability to pull any number of data elements not  Figure 5. Information Coordination across the Emergency Response Process  only benefits real-time clinical decision making, but would also allow for the creation of customized reports for real-time monitoring \(e.g., dashboards retrospective research and analysis. The idea here is that performance analysis becomes a system design consideration at the outset, as opposed to taking the traditional approach of constructing performance reports after the system has been built. As shown in Figure 6, reporting and analytics would be a key component of the ICTIN 5. Additional enterprise architecture characteristics 


5. Additional enterprise architecture characteristics are illustrated in Figure 6. Though alluded to in the above discussion, these include a. Security/Privacy: A standard suite of network software, and data security measures would be implemented to ensure safe transport of patient information in accordance with State and National privacy guidelines and laws Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 b. Patient tracking system: In order to accurately identify data from one system to another, there must be a common data identifier that could associate data with a patient, including vehicle, incident, medical information, care provision, receiving hospital medications administered, dispatched emergency resources, time of phone call, etc. The data would all be linked back to the patient for real-time and retrospective analysis. A patient tracking system would facilitate this core function of the ICTIN c. Directory and Access Services: This would be one or several secure databases that include a listing of all authorized organizations and individuals allowed to access ICTIN information. Individuals would register,,be approved by the managing organization, and then allowed access to certain information based on the information access policies prescribed by the managing body. The directory is controlled by a managing entity to be determined by the network stakeholders  5.1. Directions for Subsequent Phases  While there exists a need for an integrated crash trauma information network \(CTIN a paucity of guidance, literature, and directions on how to achieve such a complex system implementation.  As confirmed by the local and state focus group discussions in Minnesota, further exploration into the potential and feasibility of developing an integrated crash trauma information network would provide an innovative advancement from both a research and practice perspective. More specific recommendations for taking a phased and incremental research approach to move the concept forward are discussed below In our phased approach, several methods are being employed.  A first task would be to validate the Minnesota case studies by conducting a comparative case study review in another state. Findings from a cross-case comparison would be used to outline the parameters for an initial prototype of the integrated crash information system. The prototype would be a simplified ?sample? system to provide a ?proof of concept? and illustrate how crash information could be shared from the moment of impact, through emergency dispatch and response, and then into the emergency room and health treatment services. A key component of this prototype will be the integration of data around the patient. Our straw man system CrashHelp series of interviews and focus groups with significant stakeholders in the process, including departments of transportation, public safety, 911, emergency services, and healthcare. Small data sets from crash EMS, health information systems would be collected and used to develop and populate the prototype to demonstrate its utility for safety decision support and planning purposes.  Feedback analysis from policymakers, planners, public health, EMS, safety engineers, emergency planners and citizens will focus on operational, organizational, and policy 


on operational, organizational, and policy deployment challenges surrounding an enhanced EMS system, including possible benefits from its utilization  Figure 6. Organizations and Integrated Crash Trauma Information Network Services  6. Expected Benefits &amp; Conclusion  The Trauma network would organize the information around the patient, providing a user/consumer centric approach to information design and use. In doing so, the trauma network would extend current EMS systems to include a greater range of information, including information that has been requested by emergency room physicians but often not available. This information is expected to improve not only the timeliness, but also the quality of the emergency response and improve patient care An end-to-end trauma network would allow for more holistic data analysis that can be both visualized and conducted in real-time. Just as private sector operations have achieved benefits through integrated customer systems \(e.g., CRM apply to the victim of a trauma. In this case, the issue is not just better customer service but fundamental issues of life and death  8. References  1] NHTSA, Emergency Medical Services: 24/7 Care Everywhere: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 2007 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 2] NHTSA, "Fatality Analysis Reporting System." vol 2008: National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, 2008 3] D. Trunkey, "Trauma," Scientific American, vol. 249 pp. 28-35, 1983 4] D. C. Grossman, Kim, A., Macdonald, S.C., Klein, P Copass, M.K., Maier, R.V, "Urban-rural differences in prehospital care of major trauma," The Journal of Trauma vol. 42, pp. 723-729, 1997 5] B. Schooley, T. Horan, and M. Marich, "User Perspectives on the Minnesota Inter-organizational Mayday Information System," in AMIS Monograph Series: Volume on Information Systems for Emergency Management, Van De Valle and Turoff, Eds.: IDEA Press, 2008 6] J. Peters, Hall, B., "Assessment of ambulance response performance using a geographic information system Social Science and Medicine, vol. 49, pp. 1551-1566, 1999 7] M. Jason S. Shapiro, c, Joseph Kannry, MDb, Andre W Kushnirukd, Gilad Kuperman, MD, PhDa,e "Emergency Physicians? Perceptions of Health Information Exchange pp. 700-705, 2007 8] G. Mears, J. Ornato, and D. Dawson, "Emergency Medical Services Information Systems and A Future EMS National Database," in Turtle Creek Conference III, Dallas TX, 2001 9] T.A. Horan and B. Schooley, "Time-critical information services," Commun. ACM, vol. 50, pp. 73-78, 2007 10] Joint Advisory Committee on Communications Capabilities of Emergency Medical and Public Health Care Facilities \(JAC February 4, 2008 2008 11] M. Turoff, Chumer, M., Van de Walle, B., Yao, X The Design of a Dynamic Emergency Response Management Information System \(DERMIS Information Technology Theory and Application December 25, 2003 2004 


December 25, 2003 2004 12] S. Sawyer, Tapia, A., Pesheck, L., and Davenport, J Mobility and the First Responder," Communications of the ACM, vol. 47, pp. 61-64, 2004 13] Institute of Medicine \(IOM Services: At the Crossroads," National Academy Press Washington, D.C. 2006 14] M. T. D. Ye K, Knott JC, Dent A, MacBean CE Handover in the emergency department: Deficiencies and adverse effects.," Emergency Medicine Australasia, vol. 19 pp. 433-41, 2007 15] T. Taylor, "Information management in the emergency department," Emerg Med Clin North Am, vol. 22, pp. 24157, 2004 16] A. Andrew Stiell, Ian G. Stiell and Carl van Walraven Prevalence of information gaps in the emergency department and the effect on patient outcomes " Canadian Medical Association, p. 169, November 11th 2003 17] T. A. Horan and B. L. Schooley, "Time-Critical Information Services," Communications of the ACM, vol 50, pp. 73-78, 2007 18] B. Schooley and T. Horan, "End-to-End Enterprise Performance Management in the Public Sector through Inter-organizational Information Integration," Government Information Quarterly, vol. 24, pp. 755-784, 2007 19] P. Kensaku Kawamoto, and David F. Lobach, MD PhD, MS2 "Proposal for Fulfilling Strategic Objectives of the U.S. Roadmap for National Action on Decision Support through a Service-oriented Architecture Leveraging HL7 Services," in American Medical Informatics Association vol. 14: American Medical Informatics Association 2007 pp. 146-155 20] J. Salinas, McManus, J., Convertino, V., Holcomb, J Hospital Data Warehousing System for Mining of Patient Data," in Ninth IASTED International Conference Software Engineering and Applications, Phoenix, AZ, 2005, pp. 1318 21] L. Carver, Turoff, M., "Human-Computer Interaction The Human and Computer as a Team in Emergency Management Information Systems," Communications of the ACM, vol. 50, pp. 33-38, 2007 22] Battelle Company, "Evaluation of the MAYDAY/9-11 Field Operational Test," Battelle, Maryland July 19, 2006 2006 23] W. M. Evanco, "The potential impact of rural mayday systems on vehicular crash fatalities," Accident Analysis &amp Prevention, vol. 31, pp. 455-462, 1999 24] NHTSA, "Crash Outcome Data Evaluation Systems CODES 2008 25] D. E. Clark and B. M. Cushing, "Predicted effect of automatic crash notification on traffic mortality," Accident Analysis &amp; Prevention, vol. 34, pp. 507-513, 2002 26] NHTSA, "Next Generation 9-1-1 System Concept of Operations \(NG911 ConOps Ed., 2005 27] D. N. Hatfield, "A Report on Technical and Operational Issues Impacting The Provision of Wireless Enhanced 911 Services," Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 2002 28] L. K. Moore, "An Emergency Communications Safety Net: Integrating 911 and Other Services," Congressional Research Service, Washington, D.C. Feb 28, 2008 29] I. o. M. \(IOM crossroads. Washington, DC: National Academy Press 2006 30] N. E. N. A. \(NENA effectiveness, accessibility and future of America's 9-1-1 service. Columbus, Ohio: The RCN Commission and National Emergency Number Association, 2001 31] NEMSIS, "National EMS Information System Helping Unify EMS Data," 2008 


Helping Unify EMS Data," 2008 32] N. Mann, K. Guice, L. Cassidy, D. Wright, J. Koury Are Statewide Trauma Registries Comparable? Reaching for a National Trauma Dataset," Society for Academic Emergency Medicine, vol. 13, pp. 946-953, 2006 33] R. Fantus, Fildes, J., "Deposit the Bull's-eye," Bulletin of the American College of Surgeons, vol. 91, p. 2, 2006 34] B. Schooley, M. Marich, and T. Horan, "Devising an architecture for time-critical information services: interorganizational performance data components for emergency medical service \(EMS 8th annual international conference on Digital government research: bridging disciplines \\&amp; domains Philadelphia Pennsylvania: Digital Government Research Center, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


 21] T.A. Pardo, H.J. Scholl., ?Walking Atop the Cliffs Avoid Failure and Reducing Risk in Large Scale EGovernment Projects, Proceeding of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences-2002, IEEE Computer Society  22] T. L. Dinh and T.H. Le, ?Toward an Approach for Modeling Interoperability of Information Systems?, IEEE Research, Innovation and Vision for the Future, March 5 2007, pp.22-28  23] UN/CEFACT Core Components Technical Specification, Part 8 of the ebXML Framework, Version 2.01, Retrieved January 25, 2007 from http://www.unece.org/cefact/ebxml/CCTS_V2-01_Final.pdf  24] UN/CEFACT, ?UN/CEFACT Modeling Methodology UMM  25] UN/CEFACT ?Recommendation 34 Data Simplification and Standardization for International Trade?, Working DraftVersion 6.0, May 21, 2008 26]   UN/CEFACT ?XML Naming and Design Rules \(XML NDR   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 pre></body></html 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207ñ216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intíl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intíl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





