The Design and Implementation of Application Communication Based on Embedded network terminal  Ping  Wang 1  School of Physics and optoelectronics Technology Fujian Normal University Fuzhou, China pwang@fjnu.edu.cn Hua He 2  School of Physics and optoelectronics Technology Fujian Normal University Fuzhou, China hehualanqing@sina.com RongTai Cai 3  School of Physics and optoelectronics Technology Fujian Normal University Fuzhou, China 
rt.cai@yahoo.com HuaLi Jiang 4  School of Physics and optoelectronics Technology Fujian Normal University Fuzhou, China lilisteven@126 002 com ShiWu Xu 5  School of Physics and optoelectronics Technology Fujian Normal University Fuzhou, China xushiwu@126.com   Abstract Lots of chat software and e-mail client software can run in the personal computer, but for some specific embedded network terminal, which leads to some problems like big size and so on. Aiming at the hardware systems and operating 
systems of embedded network terminal, solutions for chat software and e-mail client software based on embedded network terminal were proposed. In this paper, the design of chat software and e-mail client software were described in detail, after analyzing the network socket programming, the email system theory and related protocols. The chat software successfully achieves the communications of embedded network terminals and embedded network terminals, the communication of embedded network terminals and personal computers. The e-mail client software is provided with Greater flexibility and scalability. It not only can send and receive 
messages in both English and Chinese, but also possess of other functions, for example, displaying the mail attachment content without downloading or downloading attachment Keywords-Embedded; Socket; E-mail; chat software; WinCE I   I NTRODUCTION  Embedded systems have been used in transportation commercial / financial, industrial control, medical and many other fields because of these systems can satisfy the special requirements of function, reliability, cost, size, power consumption. At present, the embedded network application 
technology has become a very popular application technology in the international. In order to connect a variety of devices with internet and achieve remote communications and control, Philips, Samsung and other companies are researching corresponding embedded network terminals Follows are hardware options of embedded network terminal based SCM: SCM + Hardware stack + LAN chip; SCM LAN chip. Those modes cant achieve complex, high-speed communication, because of their software and hardware resources are limited. Aiming at these problems, ARM LAN chip was proposed. Coming with the operating system 
features and arm chip integrating most peripheral circuits this model has fast speed, powerful functions  1 nd can provide a good hardware platform for the realization of internet applications E-mail client system and chat software are popular software for people exchanging information. Currently although there are much such software, which only suitable for PC, but not for embedded network devices which have limited resource, because of those software not only have basic communication functions, but also have many complex features which may occupy a lot of resources. Whats more 
windows CE embedded operating system support few class libraries, for example it doesnt support System.Net.Mail and System.Web.Mail. So by directly cutting the existing e-mail client systems and chat software, people cant make them run in embedded operating system. From what the paper has mentioned above, we can see that designing chat software and email client software based on embedded network terminal, have high practical value II  N ETWORK TERMINAL HARDWARE AND OPERATING SYSTEMS  A  
Network Terminal Hardware System The embedded network terminal was composed by S3C2440A-40 microprocessor of Samsung, the power module, Ethernet module, Serial module, Display modules Fund Project  Science and Technology Department of Fujian Province 001\000  Neural networks and e-mail filtering system on embedded system 001\001 JB0976 
2010 First ACIS International Symposium on Cryptography, and Network Security, Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery E-Commerce and Its Applications, and Embedded Systems 978-0-7695-4332-1/10 $26.00  2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CDEE.2010.61 278 
 


touch screen\ External data storage module, System operation instructions module and Interface modules  Figure 1  Network Terminal B  Embedded Operating System Developed by Microsoft, Windows CE operating system is a 32-bit embedded real time operating system with powerful functions, such as multi-threaded, multi-tasking fully preemptive features, and is designed for a variety of hardware system with strict resource constraints  Windows CE supports multiple hardware peripherals and makes users send or receive e-mail and browse web easily through internet with built-in communications capabilities In addition, the user interface of Windows CE system, which is similar to Windows system, makes people use easily [3 Chat software and email clients used C/S model and were edited by VS.C III  C HAT SOFTWARE  A  Socket The socket of TCP/IP protocol provides three models raw sockets, stream sockets, datagram sockets. Raw sockets are mainly used for testing new protocol implementation stream sockets provide connection-oriented and reliable data transmission services; datagram sockets provide unreliable and connectionless-oriented services B  TCP Connection-oriented Communication Process Using stream sockets programming, the user should have a connection channel before sending data. The communication process is divided into three steps 1  Server Monitoring After being created and launched the Server will monitor on the designated port and wait for client connections 2  Client requests Using stream sockets create a client which is used for sending connection requests to the designated Server. To meet this requirement, the client socket must point out the address and port number of the designated Server before sending connection request   TcpClient tcpClient = new TcpClient tcpClient.Connect\(IPAddress.Parse\(Ser_ip Int32.Parse\(Ser_Port 3  Confirming connection When the server detects a connection request \(listener.Pending \(\ ture\vice process is awakened and generates a new byte stream socket Socket socket = listener.AcceptSocket \(\o connect with the client. The old socket keeps on monitoring service requests on the network C  The design of chat software Both of the software is programmed by stream sockets the server and client of chat software are in the same interface. Follows are the commonly used commands of chat protocol: JOIN, GETLIST, TALK, SECRET, EXIT, OFF Server supports multiple client connections simultaneously whose primary responsibility is to manage client connections and send messages to the client. After landing client system the user can choose friends from the friends list to chat 1  Servers Desige First of all, creating a server socket by socket TcpListener class: TcpListener listener= new TcpListener\(localaddr_ip, port\. Secondly, making the Server state: listener.Start\(\. When no connection request, the server process is dormant. In order to make multi-user communication come true, the client socket was defined as hashtable object. At the same time, we establish an independent data reception thread for each user to deal with the received data and commands. Creating thread: Thread clientService = new Thread \(new Thread Start client.ServiceClient   Figure 2  Server Design Process 2  Clients design Using TcpClient class to create a stream socket \(tcpClient\as a client and providing the connected servers IP address and port number to the function of Connect\(\ by clicking the friend from friends list 
279 
 


If your friend is not online \(the friends server does not open or his/her server does not detect the connection request\, you cant communicate with him/her. After connecting successfully, the client can write data or commands into the network data stream by Byt b y t es   System.Text.Encoding.Default.GetBytes Stream.Write\(bytes, 0, bytes.Length  Sending and receiving files by a pair of independent of server and client socket and using FileGetStream\(\o get the files stream when sending files Major steps of sending file   build files stream object FileStream File = new FileStream \(FilePath FileMode.Open   get the files length byte  by n e w  byte[System.Convert.ToInt32\(File.Length    get the files stream File.Read \(by, 0, by.Length Major steps of receive file   create a new files stream filestream=new FileStream saveFileDialog1.FileName,FileMode.OpenOrCreat e, FileAccess.Write   files remaining length While \(filelength   filestream.Write \(bytes, 0, filelength filestream.Flush   IV  E MAIL CLIENT  S DESIGN  A  SMTP and POP3 SMTP \(Simple Mail Transfer Protoco1\ defines the rules of which communication of sending e-mail from source address to destination [5  Its com m an ds a r e c o m pos ed by  ASCII and it provides 8 bytes transmission channel, the maximum bit is zero The communication process of POP3 \(Post Office Protocol\consists of three stages: verification state transaction state and update state [6 l o w s a r e t h e commonly used commands: DELE \(delete e-mail\, RETR the e-mails number \(read e-mail\ TOP \(read specified email header\ and so on B  Systems design RFC822 standard specifies syntax for text messages and applies only to the format and some of the semantics of message contents   T o sol v e t h e  pro b l e m o f se n d i ng o t her kinds of information in e-mail, which include text in languages other than English, using character encodings other than ASCII, and 8-bit binary content such as files containing images, sounds, movies and computer programs the design uses Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions\(MIME\ standard. Commonly used encodings in the standard of MIME are 7 bit, quoted-printable, base64, 8 bit and binary [8   Figure 3  Main Frame C  The design of sending e-mail The main functions of sending e-mail are Base64Encode\(\ SendCommand\(\ ReceiveData GetStream\(\, SendEmai\(\Base64Encode\(\s function is to make the sent string message into the format base64 encoding; SendCommand\(\s function is to send a single commands; ReceiveData\(\s function is to receive response code from STMP Server; GetStream\(\s function is to get the attachment files stream If the e-mail doesnt contain attachments, the client socket will send the e-mail directly, but if contains, the client socket will divide the e-mails body into several parts: firstly signs the Content-Type as multipart/mixed; secondly, defines the attribute of boundary which is a sub-identifier. The attachment could be voice files, images files and so on D  The design of receiving e-mail Combining the commands of POP3 protocol, Socket and NetworkStream, the client socket can get e-mail source code easily. But how to get the value message from the source code and convert them into the information what people can read are difficult. The e-mail reception system mainly rely on the classes of WincePOPClient, QUOTED-PRINTABLE BASE64, SaveFileAttachment The class of WincePOPClient mainly includes commands of POP3, the way of getting and analyzing mail source code and so on. Combining with the class of QUOTED-PRINTABLE, BASE64, the class of WincePOPClient can display the value information rightly When watching or saving the attachment, the class of WincePOPClient will get the attachment source code from the class of SaveFileAttachment  
280 
 


 Figure 4  Sending E-mail Processes  Figure 5  Receiving E-mail Processes 
281 
 


V  SOFTWARE  S DEBUGGING  The sixth picture is the function test pictures of chat software based on embedded network terminal; the seventh eighth pictures are the test pictures of sending and receiving e-mail. When read mail contains an attachment, user can choose to save the attachment or not after reading the mail content  Figure 6  Chat Software Testing  Figure 7  E-mail Sent Successfully  Figure 8  Mailbox C ONCLUSIONS  Based on the combination of network resource and the hardware platform of arm + LAN chip mode, the paper designs a chat software and e-mail client system in the Windows CE embedded operating system. E-mail client system solves the problem of decoding successfully. At the same time, the system has a good user interface and the most common e-mail system functions. Both software meet the requirements of embedded system hardware successfully and satisfy the need of interaction, distribution and remote office which make people chat, send and receive message easily by this network terminal. And on this basis, we can develop VOIP or TELNET, in this digital era, embedded network terminal has a broad market prospect R EFERENCES  1  Ping Wang. The long range control project to build-in terminal by PSTN and Internet, Microcomputer Applications. China, vol. 30, pp. 51-64, January 2009 2  Yimin Wu, Haijiang Ge, Nenggui, Zhang. Realization of simulating keyboard driver based on WinCE, Mechanical Electrical Engineering Magazine. China, vol. 25, pp. 103-105 Sep 2008 3  Jianmin Lin. Development trends of embedded OSs technology, Computer Engineering. China, vol, 27, pp. 1-4 Oct 2001 4  Qiaoling Li. The design of network communication programmer based on C#-Socket , Fujian Computer. China vol. 25, pp. 135-136, April 2009 5  Cailan Zhou, Shan Yu, Yafang Zhou. Technique of preventing junk mail based on SMTP, Computer Technology and Development. China, vol. 18, pp. 188-191, January 2008 6  Shuhua Ye, Zhihong Gao. Practical guide of network programming. POSTS & TELECOM PRESS, China, pp. 328330, 2006 7  Yan Hu, Guifa Teng, Sufen Dong, Dan Wang. Research on Extracting E-mail Information Based on Structure of MIME Mail, New Technology of Library and Information Service China, vol. 5, pp. 85-88, 2008 8  Tao Xun. The analysis of MIME mail format and Information extraction, Computer & Information Technology. China, vol. 6, pp.24-30, 2007  
282 
 


 interview was conducted, there was not enough information to identify a gestalt. However, the approach taken so far seems to facilitate the implementation of the governance of IT amongst business units  6. Limitations and Contributions  These two pilot cases represent only one first step in a multiple-case study research. It carries however some limitations. First, the units of analysis chosen might not represent pure interorganizational situations. For instance, in the first case, the business relationship between AIRLINER and the other business unit might not represent fully independent organizations. The same observation can be made regarding TAKEOVER where IT governance was studied in a context of the integration of a large manufacturer to a much larger international one The next step could be to select independent businesses using specific business-to-business technology such as an extended value chain supported by an ERP linking an independent supplier to an independent buyer Second, as suggested by De Haes and Van Grembergen \(2006 it w o u l d be appro priate to  interview more than one business representative by organization and to draw information from each IT governance level \(strategic, managerial and operational\This would allow a richer understanding of the business and the interorganizational governance of IT Third, the researchers experienced some difficulties in drawing gestalts due to the high structural and managerial complexities of very large businesses. To alleviate this problem, we need to be more specific in the selection of the business units and the type of interorganizational IT links. A larger sample size is also needed The next phase of this study is to conduct multiple case-studies in order to test the model. We expect to find out patterns reflecting the gestalts of governance and their contribution to successful interorganizational relationships The proposed research framework should help both practitioners and academics to better understand the phenomena of interorganizational governance of IT and how to address each of its specific components This on-going research offers various potential contributions. First, the IT governance of interorganizational relationships has not been very well studied so far. Moreover, the maturity state adds a dynamic approach to the usual and more static investigation on IT governance. This research is among the first to link these emerging modes of interorganizational IT gove rnance to the success of interorganizational relationships. Comparing the emerging modes will allow determining the ones that are likely to best support the multi-partners exchanges, and those that are less successful to do so taking into account the various states in the development of process The two illustrations provided at the beginning and the discussion that followed indicate that a deeper understanding of interorganizational governance of IT is needed. We expect that discovering new modes of interorganizational IT governance will provide guidelines for an efficient and effective use of IT for successful interorganizational relationships  7. References 1 i n k ler I Network Governance between Individual and Collective Goals: Qualitative Evidence from Six Networks  Journal of Leadership and Organizational Studies 12:3\ 2006, pp. 119-133 2 Ba tonda G a nd P e rry C   Approaches to Relationship Development Processes in Inter-Firm Networks  European Journal of Marketing 37:10 2003, pp. 1457-1517 3 Chi, L a nd H o ls a pple  C. W  Understanding Computer-Mediated Interorganizational Collaboration A Model and Framework  Journal of Knowledge Management 9:1\2005, pp. 53-75 4 T u rba n, E., K i ng D V i e h la n d D a nd L e e  J    Electronic Commerce 2008: A Managerial Perspective Prentice Hall, 2008, 1008 p 5 T hom ps on J   Organizations in Action McGraw Hill New York, NY, 1967, 192 p  Rau  K G   Effective Governance of IT: Design Objectives, Roles, and Relationships  Information Systems Management 21:4\, 2004, pp. 35-42 7 Sa m b am urth y  V., a nd Zm ud, R   Arrangements for Information Technology Governance: A Theory of Multiple Contingencies  MIS Quarterly 23:2\ 1999 pp. 261-290 8 B r ow n, C V  Examining the Emergence of Hybrid IS Governance Solutions: Evidence from a Single Case Site  Information Systems Research 8:1 1997, pp. 69-94 9 Brow n, C. V  a nd Ma g ill, S. L   Alignment of the IS Functions with the Enterprise: Toward a Model of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


 Antecedents  MIS Quarterly 18:4\1994, pp. 371403 10  Boy n ton, A  C., J a c obs G  C., a nd Zm ud, R. W   Whose Responsibility Is IT Management  Sloan Management Review 33:4\, 1992, pp. 32-38 11 P e terso n  R Crafting Information Technology Governance Information Systems Management  21:4\ll 2004, pp. 1-16 12 W e ill, P  a n d Ross J. W   A Matrixed Approach to Designing IT Governance  Sloan Management Review 46:2\, 2005, pp. 26-34 13  G ove rna nc e Institute 20 03 Board Briefing on IT Governance 2nd Edition, 66 p 14 C obiT   IT Governance Global Status Report USA 2006, 48 p 15  L e v i n a N., an d R o ss J. W   From the Vendor s Perspective: Exploring the Value Proposition in Information Technology Outsourcing  MIS Quarterly 27:3\, 2003, pp. 331-364 1 a n r i v erd i   H  Performance Effects of Information Technology Synergies in Multibusiness Firms  MIS Quarterly 30:1\, 2006, pp. 57-77 1 Hargu e m  S   Bergero n  F   and F r ay et  J M   La gouvernance des TI dans un contexte interorganisationnel: Dveloppement d un cadre d analyse  Administrative Sciences Association of Canada Conference IS division, Banff, Alberta, 2006 pp. 238-251 1 Hargu e m  S   Bergero n  F   and F r ay et  J M   La gouvernance des TI  l re du e-business  Compterendus de la Confrence eCommerce et Gouvernance de l Internet, ECIG 2007 Sousse, Tunisie, 19-20 octobre 2007, pp. 1-19 1 C Determinants of Interorganizational Relationships: Integration and Future Directions The Academy of Management Review 15:2\, 1990, pp 241-265 20  B a r r i ng e r B  R  a nd H a r r i son, J   Walking a Tightrope: Creating Value through Interorganizational Relationships  Journal of Management 26:3\, 2000 pp. 367-403 21  Poul in D   Mo ntre ui l, B a n d G a uv in S L'entreprise rseau. Btir aujourd'hui l'organisation de demain  Publi-Relais, Montral, 1994, 335 p 22  B a r t hon  P. a n d J e ps e n  B   How Time Affects Transaction Costs and Relational Governance in the Distribution Channel: A Review and Research Propositions  Management Research 20:6\, 1997 pp. 14-29 23  Mi randa S M an d Kav a n, C. B Moments of Governance in IS Outsourcing: Conceptualizing Effects of Contracts on Value Capture and Creation  Journal of Information Technology 20:3\2005, pp 152-169 2 P o do l n y  J M  and  P a ge K L  Network Forms of Organization  Annual Review of Sociology 24 1998, pp. 57-76 25  Za he e r A  a nd Ve nk a t ra m a n, N   Relational Governance as an Interorganizational Strategy: An Empirical Test of the Role of Trust in Economic Exchange  Strategic Management Journal 16:6 1995, pp. 373-392 26 Jone s, C., He ste r l y  W  S., a nd Borg a tti, S. P   A General Theory of Network Governance: Exchange Conditions and Social Mechanisms  The Academy of Management Review 22:4\, 1997, pp. 911-945 2 d e  J  Inter-organisational Governance in Marketing Channels  Journal of Marketing 58:1 1994, pp. 71-85 28  H e lfe t G a nd Vith, K   Relationships Marketing Teams: Improving the Utilization of Customer Relationship Potentials through a High Team Design Quality  Industrial Marketing Management 28:5 1999, pp. 553-564 2 ss  J W   Creating a Strategic IT Architecture Competency: Learning in Stages MIS Quarterly Executive 2:1\2003, pp. 31-43 30  L o w nde s  V., a nd Sk e l c h e r C   The Dynamics of Multi-Organizational Partnerships: An Analysis of Changing Modes of Governance  Public Administration 76:2\ 1998, 313-333 31  R i ng P. S., a nd Va n de Ve n   A  H   Structuring Cooperative Relationships Between Organizations  Strategic Management Journal 13:7\992, pp. 483498 32 Crote a u A M P.-M. L  g e r, a nd L  Ca s s iv i The Role of Life Cycle Concepts in the Assessment of Interorganizational Alignment Industrial Management & Data Systems 108, 2\, 2008, pp. 145161 33  W ils on, D  T   An Integrated Model of Buyer-Seller Relationships  Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 23:4\1995, pp. 335-345 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


 3 t er  R  M   Collaborative Advantage: The Art of Alliance  Harvard Business Review July-August 1994, pp. 96-108 35 L a rso n   A   Network Dyads in Entrepreneurial Settings: A Study of the Governance of Exchange Relationships  Administrative Science Quarterly  37:1\, 1992, pp. 76-104 36 D w y e r F. R., Sc hurr, P. H a n d O h S Developing Buyer-Seller Relationships  Journal of Marketing 51:2\, 1987, pp. 11-27 37 Ford  D The Development of Buyer-Seller Relationships in the Industrial Markets  Journal of Marketing 5:6\ 1980, pp. 339-354 3 Hu xh am  C  an d  V a n g en  S   Leadership in the Shaping and Implementation of Collaboration Agendas: How Things Happen in a \(Not Quite Joined-Up World  Academy of Management Journal  43:6\, 2000, pp. 1159-1175 39 Kum a r, K., a nd V a n Disse l H. G  Sustainable Collaboration: Managing conflict and cooperation in interorganizational Systems  MIS Quarterly 20:3 1996, pp. 279-300 40 r D Toward A New Contingency Approach the Search for Organizational Gestalts  Journal of Management Studies 18:1\1981, pp. 1-26 4   R.K  Case Study Research, Design and Methods 2 nd ed.\ge Publications, Beverly Hills, CA, 1994 171 p 42  D e H a e s S., a nd Va n G r em be rge n W  Information Technology Governance Best Practices in Belgian Organisations  Proceedings of the 39 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2006 pp. 1-8  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 
 


Medium and Low. To determine these levels, the probability for each threat likelihood level is expressed as follows: 1.0 for High, 0.5 for Medium, 0.1 for Low. Regarding the threat impact the following values are assigned: 100 for High, 50 for Medium, and 10 for Low. Now it is possible to multiply the threat probability with the impact values. The risk scale to interpret the results is given below  High \( &gt;50 to 100  Medium \( &gt;10 to 50  Low \(1 to 10 By now we know the individual risk for every threatened asset in case a threat occurs. These asset bound risk levels are required in the subsequent control recommendation step as countermeasures could be required individually for each asset. To gain a single risk level for a threat, the highest risk level over all assets is assigned. In the traditional process it is important to de?ne the meaning of a speci?c risk level and the actions senior management must take. While this is a valuable approach, it is not clear which assets caused the risk level and where to apply countermeasures. AURUM on the contrary offers a more detailed and ?ne grained approach as introduced in the following section  Traceability: The GSTool does not incorporate probabilities for threat occurrences and thus no risk level can be calculated. Instead, the IT Grundschutz Manual approach de?nes lists of relevant threats and required countermeasures according to a typical of?ce environment. By answering control questions a variance analysis between the recommended countermeasures in the IT Grundschutz catalogues and those already implemented can be conducted CRISAM offers neither threat catalogues nor related probabilities. The risk management view in CRISAM displays the variance of the achieved ?nance ratings which are derived by answering the control questions for each resource with the policy de?ned target rating In AURUM the risk is calculated by multiplying the determined impact level with the derived probability for each resource. In contrast to the other tools we present a ?nal risk level to the user which takes the impact and probability into account  Standard Compliant Controls: Regarding control recommendations, the GSTool offers a comprehensive set of threats and corresponding controls, taken from the IT Grundschutz Manual, to mitigate those. For each resource a set of recommended controls is provided. To support the implementation process a responsible person for implementation, a schedule, priority and costs can be stored. For each control question in the CRISAM tool the user can create one or more measures to implement the control. These measures include information on the responsible person for implementation, a schedule, priority and costs. No explicit information on the origin of the control questions is given. Contrasting the other candidates, our solution recommends controls to mitigate vulnerabilities. All controls are derived and explicitly Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 linked to established best-practice guidelines and information security standards. This makes it, e.g., possible to speci?c information security standard as target IX. CONTROL RECOMMENDATIONS Up to this point the overall risk of a threat, or a risk level for each threatened asset, can be calculated. Initially, we sort threats by their risk level, which provides the organization  s decision makers with a thorough overview of current risks In addition, for each threat the organization  s assets at risk and their properties can be queried, which gives the rationals for the calculated risk levels. As mentioned in Section IV also vulnerabilities which render threats possible can be inspected. At this point management knows which risks are not 


spected. At this point management knows which risks are not acceptable for the organization and therefore, measures have to be taken. In this step of the process, controls which could mitigate or eliminate the identi?ed risks, as appropriate to the organization  s operations, should be provided [6]. To support this recommendation step, we consolidate the security model For each vulnerability, appropriate controls are modeled, taken from best practice standards such as the IT Grundschutz Manual. Offering these controls equips the decision makers with effective countermeasures to lower the risk level and thereby protect their business. In contrast to the traditional process, this solution provides a thorough knowledge base about countermeasures and thus 1 that effective solutions are simply forgotten, and 3 effective controls in compliance with best-practice standards While this is already a valuable approach, further improvement can be achieved by a model based test for existing countermeasures and excluding those from the recommendation set Implementation instructions are modeled for each control as axioms, which can be used to test if implementations already exist  Concrete Recommendations: The GSTool provides control recommendations in natural language taken from the IT Grundschutz Manual. These recommendations are mostly highly detailed, but require an expert to draw the appropriate conclusions for the own organization under inspection CRISAM does not incorporate control recommendations users have to de?ne them on their own in accordance to the given control questions. The control questions sometimes include hints for control implementations on a very high level Our solution provides control recommendations to close vulnerabilities for each resource. The controls are given in natural language to enhance understanding and furthermore, as formal implementation descriptions on a conceptual level. The knowledge base also contains concrete implementation instances, which can be automatically recommended. Another advantage is that those controls automatically as control recommendations X. CONTROL EVALUATION AND COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS After identifying all potential controls, they are evaluated and a Cost/Bene?t analysis is carried out. Cost/Bene?t analysis is an integral part of risk evaluation because investments into security must precisely target a company  s speci?c business needs in line with economic demands. Despite the importance of this step, NIST SP 800-30 gives only a shallow overview This step involves the de?nition of the resource- and bene?t categories. The careful speci?cation of these categories is of vital importance as these categories should re?ect the corporate strategy and security policy of the company. The criteria are company speci?c and individually customizable and they can range from monetary quantities \(e.g., minimizing the reduction of monetary loss, monetary costs values \(e.g., user acceptance, implementation hours, loss of reputation cost and bene?t in monetary terms but includes non-?nancial objectives. All potential controls identi?ed in the previous step are rated against the chosen criteria, where the security ontology already provides a selection of objectives \(such as con?dentiality, integrity, and availability controls and their ratings in each category as input, all Paretoef?cient combinations of safeguards are determined \(i.e., there is no other solution with equally good or better values in all K objectives and a strictly better value in at least one objective where the binary variables xi ? {0, 1} indicate whether or not a safeguard i is selected \(xi = 1 if so, and xi = 0 otherwise have to be feasible with respect to two sets of constraints. The rst set relates to limited resources \(e.g., development costs 


rst set relates to limited resources \(e.g., development costs or maintenance costs maximum  or at least a minimum  number of safeguards from given subsets \(e.g., from a certain type of safeguards such as ?rewalls  Effectiveness Rating: The GSTool offers controls taken from the IT Grundschutz Manual. Effectiveness of those controls is not directly given but sometimes information on the effectiveness can be found in natural language in the IT Grundschutz Manual descriptions. Control effectiveness has no in?uence in this approach, only if all controls are implemented the resource is regarded as protected In CRISAM the user manually de?nes controls and connects them to control questions. During the creation process he can also de?ne the expected bene?t in natural language as well as provide numbers for expected savings. Obviously, only an expert has the necessary knowledge to conduct this step but still there is a risk of forgetting necessary controls, wrong connections, unrealistic ?gures, input data errors, etc Focusing on effectiveness, our solution provides effectiveness ratings for all control implementations Those are assigned once by experts in the knowledge base and can be adjusted or extended by users. This approach allows for focusing on highly effective controls Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 rst and provides data for the subsequent cost/bene?t analysis  Granularity: The GSTool does not support cost/bene?t analysis. This step has to be conducted externally. In CRISAM it is possible to manually de?ne ?gures for expected bene?ts and costs for controls. We consider cost/bene?t analysis as an integral part of risk management. As security does not directly generate business value and does not directly improve the net pro?t, investing in security can only prevent negative events or reduce related adverse effects. Traditional cost/bene?t analysis methods do not consider this relation and are ill-suited for the evaluation of security investments, because they fail to properly take into consideration the many important non?nancial criteria. AURUM does not aggregate multiple objectives to a single indicator, but leaves them separated and, furthermore, focuses on the selection of whole portfolios of controls. Thus, it can be guaranteed that all portfolio solutions are not only feasible but also are potentially  good  ones from an objective point of view The ability to consider multiple objectives is of high importance, as an investments adequacy and ef?ciency for a company is determined by different parameters Therefore, the evaluation of a number of objectives must be possible and should be accomplished without a priori weighting of objectives and without breaking them down to a common scale XI. CONTROL SELECTION Decision makers are often overwhelmed with the high number of solution alternatives and are often not aware if their investments into security are appropriate or effective at all. Therefore, AURUM provides an intuitive interface that offers the decision maker information on the speci?c selection problem while the system ensures that the ?nal solution will be an ef?cient one. The decision makers learn about the consequences of their decisions and get information on the gap \(in each category solutions. The decision maker requires support in making a nal determination of the solution that best ?ts his/her notions out of the possibly hundreds \(or even thousands ef?cient alternative portfolios identi?ed in the ?rst phase We are using a search based procedure, which start from an ef?cient portfolio and allows the decision maker to iteratively 


 move  in solution space towards more attractive alternatives until no  better  portfolio can be found. AURUM is based on interactive modi?cations of lower and upper bounds for one or more objectives. To this end, the decision support system \(DSS  ying  bars \(cf. Fig 3 such as costs or availability such as  euro  in the case of costs or  points  in the case of availability For each objective \(cf. Fig. 4 tion on what can be achieved by \(i the dark marks on the left side representing the solution space with all ef?cient portfolios may visually grow together to vertical bars ii the decision maker has made decisions in his/her interactive exploration of the solution space \(this subset from the solution space is represented by the right bar Fig. 3. Status of the DSS at the beginning Fig. 4. Subwindow details Two movable horizontal lines with small arrows at one side represent lower and upper bounds and are intended to restrict the set of remaining solutions in a step-by-step manner \(e.g by raising the minimum bound in one of the objectives for expanding it \(e.g., by once again relaxing some bounds according to the decision makers  preferences. In all of these cases, the system provides immediate feedback about the consequences of such choices in terms of the remaining alternatives. Let us illustrate this by reducing the maximum allowance for resource A \(cf. Fig. 5 Because this setting has primarily ?ltered those solutions that come with a relatively high value in  Resource Category A  and, on average, a somewhat higher need for resource C but still values in  Bene?t Category A  the options in the other objectives have been reduced as well and the position Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 and size of the ?ying bars have changed accordingly. Raising the minimum value for Bene?t A \(e.g., functionality the set of remaining alternatives even further, since many alternatives with low resource values \(e.g., price cf. Fig. 6 Fig. 5. Status of the DSS after the ?rst setting Fig. 6. Status of the DSS after two settings In further iterations, the decision maker continues playing with minimum and maximum bounds and by doing so can learn about the consequences of his/her decisions and, thus gain a much better  feeling  for the problem in terms of what can be achieved in some objectives at what  price  in terms of opportunity costs in other objectives. After several cycles of restricting and once again expanding the opportunity set, the decision maker will ?nally end up with a solution alternative that offers an individually satisfying compromise between the relevant objectives. Note that he does not need to explicitly specify weights for objectives nor to specify the form of his/her preference function or to state how much one solution is better than another during any stage of the whole procedure. Instead, ample information on the speci?c selection problem is provided to him and the system ensures that the nal solution will be an optimal \(i.e., Pareto-ef?cient with no other feasible solution available that is  better  from an objective point of view  Interactive Selection: Whereas the GSTool provides control recommendations in natural language, CRISAM does not incorporate control recommendations. Both tools do not interactively support the decision maker during this phase. We use our knowledge base that contains concrete implementation instances as a basis and provide decision makers with a stepwise and repeatable methodology that gives them plenty of information on the selection problem at hand. This approach provides them with the opportunity to thoroughly explore the set 


them with the opportunity to thoroughly explore the set of Pareto ef?cient solution alternatives until they ?nd the individually most attractive security investment portfolio while the system at the same time guarantees that only feasible Finally, the method allows the decision makers to learn more about the characteristics of the speci?c decision problem and maybe even about their own preferences XII. CONCLUSIONS Companies consider security as one of the most important issues on their agenda, because the increasing number of security breaches poses a major threat to the reliable execution of corporate strategies and may have negative effects on business value. Risk management ensures the consideration of all possible threats and vulnerabilities, as well as the valuable assets. Existing approaches such as best-practice guidelines information security standards, or domain experts but also risk management approaches that are highly accepted within the community come with shortcomings This paper presented a methodology for supporting the entire NIST SP 800-30 risk management process and provides compared to existing solutions the following bene?ts: \(1 ontological information security knowledge base ensures that the information security knowledge is provided in a consistent and comprehensive way to the risk manager, \(2 the organization  s resources within our ontological framework ensures that resources are modeled in a consistent way, \(3 the incorporation of existing best-practice guidelines and information security standards ensures that only widely accepted information security knowledge is used for threat/vulnerability identi?cation and control recommendations, \(4 Bayesian threat likelihood determination ensures that the threat likelihood determination is based on a more objective level compared to existing approaches, \(5 tomatically calculated after resources have been rated initially Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 6 automatically, \(7 decision makers \(e.g., the risk manager scenarios and, thus, to learn about the characteristics of the underlying problem, while the system guarantees that only ef?cient solution can be selected, and \(8 multiple objectives and providing a gap analysis we support decision makers in getting a much better  feeling  for the problem in terms of what can be achieved in some objectives at what  price  in terms of opportunity costs in other objectives We compared AURUM with common risk management tools namely CRISAM and the GSTool, in terms of usability, time exposure for conducting the entire risk management process completeness of the threat/vulnerability identi?cation and the control recommendations, and the granularity of control implementation suggestions XIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was supported by grants of the Austrian Government  s FIT-IT Research Initiative on Trust in IT Systems under the contract 813701 and was performed at the Research Center Secure Business Austria funded by the Federal Ministry of Economics and Labor of the Republic of Austria \(BMWA and the City of Vienna REFERENCES 1] H. Cavusoglu, B. Mishra, and S. Raghunathan  The effect of internet security breach announcements on market value: Capital market reactions for breached ?rms and internet security developers  International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 69  104, Fall 2004 2] L. Gordon, M. Loeb, W. Lucyshyn, and R. Richardson  CSI/FBI Computer Crime and Security Survey  September 2006 3] Computer Economics, Inc  2005 malware report: Executive summary  January 2006. [Online]. Available http://www.computereconomics.com/article.cfm?id=1090 4] M. Bishop  What is computer security  IEEE Sec. Priv. Mag., vol. 1 


4] M. Bishop  What is computer security  IEEE Sec. Priv. Mag., vol. 1 no. 1, pp. 67  69, Jan.-Feb. 2003 5] B. Farquhar  One approach to risk assessment  Computers and Security, vol. 10, no. 10, pp. 21  23, February 1991 6] G. Stoneburner, A. Goguen, and A. Feringa  Risk management guide for information technology systems  National Institute of Standards and Technology \(NIST Publication 800-30, July 2002 7] R. Fredriksen, M. Kristiansen, B. A. Gran, K. Stolen, T. A. Opperud and T. Dimitrakos  The coras framework for a model-based risk management process  in SAFECOMP  02: Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computer Safety, Reliability and Security London, UK: Springer-Verlag, 2002, pp. 94  105 8] C. Alberts, A. Dorofee, J. Stevens, and C. Woody  Introduction to the OCTAVE approach  Carnegie Mellon - Software Engineering Institute Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890, Tech. Rep., August 2003 9] DCSSI  Expression des Besoins et Identi?cation des Objectifs de Scurit EBIOS  General Secretariat of National Defence Central Information Systems Security Division \(DCSSI 2004 10] ISO/IEC  ISO/IEC 27005:2007, Information technology - Security techniques - Information security risk management  November 2007 11] BSI  IT Grundschutz Manual  2004. [Online]. Available http://www.bsi.de/english/gshb/manual/download/index.html 12] M. Vitale  The growing risks of information systems success  MIS Quarterly, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 327  334, December 1986 13] K. Bandyopadhyay and P. Mykytyn  A framework for integrated risk management in information technology  Management Decision, vol. 37 no. 5/6, pp. 437  444, 1999 14] C. Jung, I. Han, and B. Suh  Risk analysis for electronic commerce using case-based reasoning  International Journal of Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance &amp; Management, vol. 8, pp. 61  73, 1999 15] W. Baker and L. Wallace  Is information security under control?: Investigating quality in information security management  IEEE Security and Privacy, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 36  44, 2007 16] R. Baskerville  Information systems security design methods: Implications for information systems development  ACM Computing Surveys vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 375  414, December 1993 17] ISO/IEC  ISO/IEC 27001:2005, Information technology - Security techniques - Information security management systems - Requirements  2005 18] W. Baker, L. Rees, and P. Tippett  Necessary measures: metric-driven information security risk assessment and decision making  Communications of the ACM, vol. 50, no. 10, pp. 101  106, 2007 19] S. Frosdick  The techniques of risk analysis are insuf?cient in themselves  Disaster Prevention and Management, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 165  177, 1997 20] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, M. Klemen, and E. Weippl  Security Ontologies Improving Quantitative Risk Analysis  in 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS  07 IEEE Computer Society, Jan 2007, pp. 156  162 21] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, G. Goluch, and E. Weippl  Ontological Mapping of Common Criteria  s Security Assurance Requirements  in New Approaches for Security, Privacy and Trust in Complex Environments Proceedings of the IFIP TC 11 22nd International Information Security Conference, IFIPSEC2007, May 14-16, ser. IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, H. Venter, M. Eloff, L. Labuschagne J. Eloff, and R. von Solms, Eds., vol. 232/2007. Sandton, South Africa International Federation for Information Processing, May 2007, pp. 85  95, 978-0-387-72366-2 22] A. Ekelhart, S. Fenz, T. Neubauer, and E. Weippl  Formal threat descriptions for enhancing governmental risk assessment  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance. ACM Press, 2007 23] T. Neubauer, A. Ekelhart, and S. Fenz  Interactive Selection of ISO 27001 Controls under Multiple Objectives  in Proceedings of the IFIP TC 11 23rd International Information Security Conference, IFIPSec 2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 


2008, vol. 278/2008. Boston: Springer, July 2008, pp. 477  492 24] T. Neubauer, C. Stummer, and E. Weippl  Workshop-based Multiobjective Security Safeguard Selection  in Proceedings of the First International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security ARES IEEE Computer Society, 2006, pp. 366  373 25] T. Neubauer and C. Stummer  Interactive Decision Support for multiobjective COTS Selection  in Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, no. 01, 2007 26    Extending Business Process Management to Determine Ef?cient IT Investments  in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, 2007, pp. 1250  1256 27] W3C  OWL - web ontology language  http://www.w3.org/TR/owlfeatures/, February 2004 28] J. Burtles, Principles and Practice of Business Continuity: Tools and Techniques. Rothstein Associates Inc., 2007 29] T. R. Peltier, Information Security Risk Analysis, 2nd ed. Auerbach Publications, 2005 30] S. Kairab and L. Kelly, A Practical Guide to Security Assessments Boston, MA, USA: Auerbach Publications, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


well as from practitioners, is available, IL strategy including DWH/BI strategy IL strategies are addressed at all, either actual artifacts/documents are proposed without an integrating meta model/methodology, or the strategy making process is described without proposing specific and consistent result templates/structures Since it consumes a significant amount of resources and may constitute significant potentials for business, IL needs strategy. IL strategy must not be limited to hardware/software selection and architectural considerations, but should address the entire business scope of sourcing services, integrating acquired and self-made services into customer-oriented IL solutions, and delivering such solutions to create customer value Our survey of the state of IL strategy in practice reveals that IL sourcing, IL delivery and IL portfolio strategies are regarded as important strategy components. The larger companies are, the more international their focus is, and the more their IL is organized according to the CC model, the more components of a supply-chain oriented explicit IL strategy they are likely to have deployed The IIM model provides a suitable conceptual foundation for structuring such strategy components and also provides best practices from IT management which often can be easily adapted to IL. Regarding IL product/service development and maintenance certain functional oriented strategy sub-components are differentiated in our framework. These strategy components are adapted from an established data management functional framework in order to reflect IL specifics. While traditional, more technically oriented sub-components such as system and data architecture are covered in most companies, business oriented components like change management and project/business requirements management are covered less frequently. Additional research is necessary to develop appropriate solution components based on existing fragments and experiences Based on a more complete comprehension of IL strategy and its components, the strategy development and update process needs to be addressed in future research as well. Instead of developing and updating business strategies, IT strategies and IL strategies in independent processes, dependencies and cycles need to be addressed. A comprehensive understanding of IL strategy and respective processes may also serve as a foundation for establishing maturity models, reference models and best practices  References 1] Arnott, D. and G. Pervan, Eight key issues for the decision support systems discipline. Decision Support Systems 44\(3  2] Baum  l, U., Strategic Agility through Situational Method Construction. Proceedings of the European Academy of Management Annual Conference 2005, 2005  3] Burton, B., et al., Activity Cycle Overview: Business Intelligence and Information Management. Gartner Research G00138711, 2006  4] Chan, J.O., Optimizing Data Warehousing Strategies Communications of the IIMA, 5\(1  5] Earl, M., Management Strategies for Information Technology, Prentice Hall, New York et al., 1989  6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line 


6] Eckerson, W.W., Data Quality and the Bottom Line Achieving Business Success through a Commitment to High Quality Data. TDWI, Chatsworth, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 7] Elliott, T., Implementing Business Intelligence Standards. BusinessObjects, 2004  8] English, L.P., Improving Data Warehouse and Business Information Quality: Methods for Reducing Costs and Increasing Profits, Wiley Computer, New York et al., 1999  9] Foshay, N., Best Practices in Business Intelligence Strategy. Blue Hammock, 2006  10] Friedman, T. and B. Hostmann, Management Update The Cornerstones of Business Intelligence Excellence Gartner Research G00120819, 2004  11] Gonzales, M., Creating a BI Stragey Document. DM Review, 2004\(November  12] Henderson, J.C. and N. Venkatraman, Strategic alignment: Leveraging information technology for transforming organizations. IBM Systems Journal, 32\(1  13] Hoffmann, O., Performance Management - Systeme und Implementierungsans  tze. 3 ed, Haupt, Bern et al 2002  14] Klesse, M. and R. Winter, Organizational Forms of Data Warehousing: An Explorative Analysis. in: IEEE Computer Society, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS-40 Alamitos, 2007  15] Laudon, J. and K. Laudon, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm. 10 ed, Prentice Hall 2006  16] Losey, R., Enterprise Data Warehouse Strategy: Articulating the Vision. Dm Review, 2003\(January  17] Luftman, J.N. and R. Kempaiah, Key Issues For IT Executives 2007. MISQ Executive, 7\(2  18] MAIS and AIMS, A Business Intelligence Strategy Proposal for The University of Michigan. 2005  19] Melchert, F., Metadatenmanagement im Data Warehousing. Ergebnisse einer empirischen Studie. Institut f  r Wirtschaftsinformatik, Universit  t St. Gallen, 2004  20] Mosley, M., DAMA-DMBOK Functional Framework Version 3. DAMA International, 2008  21] Olszak, C.M. and E. Ziemba, Business Intelligence as a Key to Management of an Enterprise. in: Informing Science Institute, Informing Science + Information Technology Education, Pori, Finland, 2003  22] R  egg-St  rm, J., The New St. Gallen Management Model: Basic Categories of an Approach to Integrated Management, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, NY, 2005  23] Sommer, T., et al., Business Intelligence-Strategie bei der Volkswagen AG. in: Integrierte Informationslogistik B. Dinter and R. Winter, Editors, 2008, Springer, Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 261-284  


 24] Subramaniam, A., et al., Strategic planning for Data warehousing. Information &amp; Management, 33, 1997, pp 99-113  25] Totok, A., Entwicklung einer Business-IntelligenceStrategie. in: Analytische Informationssysteme - Business Intelligence-Technologien und -Anwendungen, P. Chamoni and P. Gluchowski, Editors, 2006, Springer, Berlin et al pp. 51-70  26] Vaduva, A. and T. Vetterli, Metadata Management for Data Warehousing: An Overview. International Journal of Cooperative Information Systems, 10\(3 298  27] Watson, H.J., D.L. Goodhue, and B.H. Wixom, The benefits of data warehousing: why some organizations realize exceptional payoffs. Information &amp; Management 39\(6  28] Watson, H.J., C. Fuller, and T. Ariyachandra, Data warehouse governance: best practices at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of North Carolina. Decision Support Systems 38\(3  29] Winter, R. and M. Meyer, Organization Of Data Warehousing In Large Service Companies: A Matrix Approach Based On Data Ownership and Competence Centers. Proceedings of the Seventh Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS 2001  30] Winter, R., Enterprise-wide Information Logistics Conceptual Foundations, Technology Enablers, and Management Challenges. ITI2008, 2008  31] Zarnekow, R., W. Brenner, and U. Pilgram, Integrated Information Management. Applying Successful Industrial Concepts in IT. 1 ed, Springer, Berlin, 2006  32] Zeid, A., Your BI Competency Center: A Blueprint for Successful Deployment. Business Intelligence Journal 11\(3    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





