Use of Incomplete Timestamp Records for Hospital Simulation Analysis   Semin Sim 1  sem@cs.yonsei.ac.kr  Sunju Park 2  boxenju@yonsei.ac.kr  Seongmoon Kim 2  kimsm@yonsei.ac.kr  SeungJae Han 1  sjhan@cs.yosnei.ac.kr   1 Department of Computer Science, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea 2 School of Business, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea   Abstract 
 Traditional simulation studies often assume that there exists a complete set of data ready for analysis Such an assumption may be justified in cases where data requirement for simulation is precisely defined and all necessary data have been collected according to such requirement. In many cases, however, existing data is incomplete, and it may not be economically feasible nor time-wise plausible to begin an extensive data collection process. Aiming at the healthcare management systems that maintain the log of operation activities using timestamps, we propose a general method to process incomplete timestamp data and obtain necessary information for simulation analysis 
The proposed method is successfully applied to a case study of a mid-size hospital in Korea     1. Introduction  Simulation-based analysis has been a useful approach for hospital service process optimization There exists a large body of research work to improve resource utilization and to reduce patient waiting time of general hospitals by modifying reservation system space planning, and staff assignment. In d [2 simulation analysis was used to evaluate the appointment scheduling methods for minimizing the influence of no-show patients. In ced patient waiting time via appointment scheduling. In 
 b erk e l us ed s i m u lati on an al y s is  f o r e f ficient  capacity planning and reducing waiting time of general surgery Existing simulation studies typically assume that a complete set of data is readily available for analysis Partially due to this requirement, they have focused on the case of large-size general hospitals where extensive data collection is feasible. The cost may be justified in large-size hospitals, because waiting time reduction usually leads to a big financial payoff. In [5   I s ke n  used sensor networks for data collection in a hospital In Morris o n dev e loped  a cu s t o m ized sy s t e m  f o r  
collecting accurate data for simulation analysis These days, enhancing the quality of healthcare services, such as shortening waiting time and/or providing open-access policy, becomes an important issue even in mid-size hospitals. Even in small- to midsize clinics, computerized health care management systems have replaced traditional paper based patient charts and have stored into a database not only patient information but also service-process related information. In most mid-size hospitals, however, the information recorded in their database is incomplete and it may not be economically feasible nor time-wise plausible for them to begin an extensive data collection 
process as in general hospitals. In this paper, we deal with the issue of utilizing such pre-existing but incomplete data for simulation study As a case study, we conduct a simulation study of a mid-size hospital, located in Seoul, Korea. The hospital under this study has two departments: the orthopedics department and the internal department. The hospital has operated since May 2003, and their service activity records during the year of 2006 are used in simulation Without loss of generality, we focus only on orthopedics outpatients. The hospital employs about 120 staffs and manages various facilities for check-in 
payment, consultation, X-Ray, MRI, CT, ultrasound lab test, physical therapy, and surgery. Table 1 summarizes the service processes and the number of servers \(staffs\ used in each process. The number of servers for the consultation process varies depending on the time and day. A dedicated staff is assigned to handle the X-ray equipment. Ultrasound, CT, MRI, and BMD equipments in examination rooms are managed by 2 technical staffs. Physical therapy is operated by 7 therapists, where patients may be served by a single therapist simultaneously. Some facilities like surgery are not applicable to outpatients 
   This research was in part supported by the MKE\(The Ministry of Knowledge Economy\, Korea, under the ITRC\(Information Technology Research Center\ support program supervised by the IITA\(Institute for Information Technology Advancement\ \(IITA2008-C1090-0803-0004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00  2009 IEEE 
 


Process Number of servers Check-in 1 Consultation 2~3 X-Ray* 1 Ultrasound 2 CT MRI BMD Payment 1 Physical therapy 7 Lab test 2 Table 1 Processes and the number of servers in each process. \(The processes with * are shared with the internal department  Figure 1 shows the flow diagram of orthopedics outpatients. When arriving, a majority of patients go to the reception desk for check-in 1 After check-in, the patient waits for her turn in front of consultation rooms. After doctor's consultation, she may need to take a lab test or to visit an examination room. After an examination she may need a second consultation Some patients may need another set of tests or need to receive a physical therapy. The payment at the reception desk is the last step before leaving the hospital. In some cases, after payment patients may need to visit the lab for blood test or receive physical therapy. Sometimes there exists an exception to the process. For example, a patient may receive an examination or a test before seeing a doctor. The hospital currently does not provide a reservation system, because most patients are senior citizens who are not familiar with an appointment system 2  The simulation model is built using the Arena simulation softwa T h rou g h in ter v i e w s h o spital  visits, and the records stored in the database, we have collected information for simulation. For simulation modeling, such information as patient arrival distribution, transition pattern within the system, and the service time distribution of each server is needed The electronic healthcare management system keeps the records of service activities with timestamps, which denote the date and time of the occurrence of certain events. Ideally, the system should record the arrival time at waiting queues, the service starting time, and the service completion time at each process, from which the distribution of waiting time and service time for each process can be accurately derived   1  A small number of paitents skip the check-in process and go directly to physical therapy  2  Although not reported here, our simulation studies the impact of introducing a reservation system as well     Figure 1 Patient Flow Diagram  The hospital under study, however, keeps only a single record per process, either a timestamp that records the beginning of the process or a timestamp that marks the end. The patient arrival rate and transition rate can be easily calculated from such records, but calculating the service time is not trivial from such incomplete timestamp records. In this paper we propose a method for extracting the service time distribution from incomplete timestamp information The accuracy of the simulation model employing the proposed methods is demonstrated by comparing the operation behavior estimated by the simulation model and that obtained from actual hospital records  2. Computation of Service Time Distribution  In this section, we describe two methods for generating service time distribution from an incomplete set of timestamp records. The proposed methods are based on two assumptions. First, the service time does not depend on the time or day nor the length of waiting queue. Second, a server immediately serves the next patient when its queue is not empty  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 
 


2.1. Busy Period Method  The first method for computing service time distribution is designed for busy periods. We assume that when any patient is waiting in a queue, the server takes no idle time and immediately serves the first patient in the queue. In busy periods when patients are waiting for servers, the difference between the timestamps of two consecutive service beginning records \(of two different patients\ serve as a reasonable estimate of the service time duration. With the same logic, the timestamp gap between two consecutive service departure records can be used as well Figure 2 depicts the service process flow from patient viewpoint. A patient waits at a queue for a certain server until she gets her turn \(at point A\. The patient occupies the server during service time \(until point D\The system keeps the timestamp either at point A i.e service start\t D i.e service departure  Figure 2 Service Process flow in busy periods  The way to compute the service time from service 2\d 3 denotes the arrival time of a patient t at server s  denotes the service time for the patient t Its denotes the server idle time until a new patient is served    1   2    3  To use this method successfully, a key issue is the detection of a busy period. When identifying the busy period, we use the patient inter-departure time \(or patient inter-arrival time\ a busy period, there always are patients waiting for services such that the patient inter-departure time will have very little, if any idle time in it. His/her service time can be computed from inter-arrival time \(or inter-departure time\he server, as shown in Figure 3 Figure 3 shows an example of inter-departure time of the consultation process. From the graph, we identify the busiest duration to apply the proposed method. In this case, the timestamp samples from 10:30am to 11:30am can be used for service time computation. The abnormally high values between 12:30pm and 1:30pm in Figure 3 is due to lunch break  2.2. Idle Period Method  When server operation policy is complex and/or the patient arrival is sparse, the busy period method cannot be used to compute service time distribution. For example, in the hospital under study, three exam rooms, MRI, BMD and ultrasound are operated by two staffs. Based on the waiting queue length and other factors, two staffs switch to serve three exam rooms To deal with the fact that servers are often in the idle state and/or servers may have complex operation policy, we use a different method. This time, we trace each patient's movement and calculate the service time by using the timestamps of the patient generated by different servers. In comparison, The busy period method uses multiple patients' timestamps belonging to the target server   Figure 4 Service Process flow with idle periods  The first diagram in Figure 4 depicts the repeated waitings and services of a patient who follows his/her service sequence. When the number of patients being served is small, the availability of servers will be high and patients can move through the series of services without waiting. In such an idle period, the waiting time can be ignored and the service flow of a patient Figure 3 Inter-departure time of consultation process Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 
 


can be modeled as in the second diagram of Figure 4 We assume the time needed to move from one server to another is negligible, but the simulation model can incorporate any reasonable transfer time   4     5  6           To compute the service time, the start and end time of service is needed. For the start time of a service at servers, we can use either the departure timestamp   the previous server or the arrival timestamp  the current server. Similarly, for the end time of a service, either the departure timestamp the current server or the arrival timestamp the next server can be used. Depending on the type of services, all or some of these timestamps are available The decision criterion of when to use the idle period method is as follows. We apply the idle period method to a patient when the gap between the departure timestamp of the patient and that of the previous patient \(who used the same server\s significantly larger than the current estimate of the service time of the server. In our simulation model, if the gap is 3 times larger than the  average service time the idle period method is applied to the corresponding patient. A similar decision criterion is used in case where the arrival timestamp is used A shortcoming of the idle period method is that the number of sample data tends to be small. A small sample size may result in less accurate estimation of the service time distribution. To increase the sample size, one needs to collect more data over a longer duration  3. Simulation Model  To build a simulation model, we have conducted a sequence of interviews. The number of staffs assigned for each process is described in Table 1. The number of consultation rooms under operation varies according to the time and day and doctors' surgery schedule. The expensive examination facilities are shared with the internal department. Three staffs operate the examination rooms, one dedicated to handle X-ray and the other two to operate remaining equipments In addition to the information obtained through interviews, we need information about patient arrival rates, transition rates, and service time. Such information is computed from the timestamp records accumulated in the hospital database. Note that for the check-in and payment processes, the timestamp is made when the process is completed. Similarly, for the consultation process, the timestamp is recorded at the end of doctor's consultation. By contrast, for X-Ray MRI, BMD and CT, the timestamp is logged when the staff retrieves patient-related information prior to examination. The timestamp for the physical therapy is created prior to the start of the service, similar to the examination processes First, we compute patient arrival rates. When arriving, the majority of patients start with the check-in process. However, a small number of patients may bypass check-in. For example, a patient who receives physical therapy regularly can directly go to the therapy room. Some regular patients may go consultation directly without check-in. Table 2 shows the average number of patients arriving to each process per day. Direct arrivals to all examination processes are combined, since very few patients go directly to examination rooms. The ratio among the processes is almost the same regardless of the time and day  Process Average number of patients Ratio Check-in 824.1705 95.17 Consultation 13.7667 1.59 X-Ray 2.4188 0.28 Examination 0.8582 0.09 Payment 0.3675 0.04 Physical therapy 24.435 2.82 Table 2 The average number of patients per day  Figure 5 plots the outpatient's arrival rates based on the time and day. The arrival rate reaches its peak between 9am and 11am in the morning. A dip around noon depicts lunch break. All staffs except physical therapists take lunch break between 12:30pm and 1:30pm, while physical therapists take turns for their lunch break. On Saturdays, most outpatient services are closed in the afternoon except physical therapy Generally, Monday and Saturday mornings are the busiest, while Tuesday and Thursday afternoons are the least busy  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 
 


Figure 5 Patient arrival rate  Second, we need to figure out how each patient moves inside the hospital. Using the timestamp created either at the beginning or at the end of each process we compute the transition rates between processes Table 3 summarizes the transition matrix. For example after doctor's consultation, 27.48% of the patients take X-rays. The transition rate is stable throughout the time and day. Using the arrival rates and the transition rates we can simulate patients arrival and movement in the hospital Third, we need to compute the service time of each process. The service time distribution is derived from the two methods described in Section 2. The estimated service time is presented in Table 4. For each process we note which of the two methods is used Figure 6 shows the simulation model. The model consists of three parts: the arrival logic, the lobby logic, and the processing logic. Each part models patient arrivals, patient movements, and waiting/service of various clinic processes. The arrival logic simulates the arrivals of orthopedics outpatients As shown in Figure 5, the arrival pattern depends on the time and day. The lobby logic simulates the patient movements by interconnecting the arrival logic and the process logic. The process logic simulates hospital services. The service processes modeled are check-in payment, consultation, X-Ray, MRI, CT, BMD, lab test, and physical therapy. Each process is modeled with corresponding service time distribution, server numbers, and operating policies. Each process occupies certain hospital resources, a room, a doctor, a nurse, etc., for the duration of the service and releases the resources when completed  Process Mean Variance Std.dev Method used Check-in 89 2021 45 Busy Consultation 231 13513 116 Busy X-Ray 316 7084 84 Busy Ultrasound 1998 866000 930 Idle CT 2002 422858 650 Idle MRI 4546 559754 748 Idle BMD 1517 157010 396 Idle Payment 108 2656 52 Busy PT 3299 3491070 1868 Idle Lab test 1215 367348 607 Idle Table 4 Service time distribution \(in seconds  4. Accuracy of Simulation Model  The accuracy of our simulation model is evaluated by comparing the operation behaviour estimated by our simulation model and that obtained from the hospital operation trace data. Though the waiting time that patients experience will be the most desirable comparison metric, it is infeasible to extract actual waiting time data from the activity records of the hospital under study. Instead, we use the patient's arrival rate of each process as a comparison metric The patient's arrival rate of each process is determined by both the arrival of new patients and the movement of existing patients from their previous process. Thus From-to Check in Consulta tion X-Ray Ultra sound CT MRI BMD Payme nt PT Lab test Exit Checkin 0 70.90 0.10 0.00 0 0.02 0.01 26.51 0.83 0.06 1.55 Consultation 1.33 0 27.48 0.25 0.27 0.85 1.52 62.54 3.71 0.75 1.25 X-Ray 1.70 63.05 0 0.07 0.28 0.38 0.99 25.88 0.60 2.45 4.59 Ultrasound 3.01 16.17 12.41 0 1.13 0.38 1.50 13.90 0.38 23.68 27.44 CT 1.91 42.58 31.10 0.96 0 0.48 5.26 9.09 0.48 1.44 6.70 MRI 8.94 54.61 6.23 0 0 0 1.22 4.47 0.27 0.95 23.31 BMD 0.27 11.06 59.80 0.72 1.08 0.81 0 12.77 0.18 4.14 8.90 Payment 0.06 0.49 0.83 0.08 0.03 0.36 0.28 0 48.21 4.14 45.51 PY 5.34 4.54 0.20 0.01 0.00 0.13 0.05 4.07 0 0.83 84.80 Labtest 4.34 7.96 10.80 2.84 0.36 0.85 3.46 2.32 8.64 0 57.89 Table 3 The transition rates \(in percentage Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 
 


the patient's arrival rate of a process reflects other processes' service time and service policy. Note that the accuracy of the proposed service time computing methods influences the overall accuracy of the entire simulation model Figure 7 Actual arrival rate on Mondays  Figure 8 Simulated arrival rate on Mondays Figure 7 shows the change of the actual patient's arrival rate of five key processes from 9am to 6pm on Mondays. The simulated arrival rates from the simulation model is plotted in Figure 8. While the overall trends of the two graphs match well, the modeling accuracy differs per process. To capture the discrepancy, Equation \(7\ is used, where is the actual arriving rate of server s at time t and is the arriving rate from simulation model of server s at time t is likelihood value of server s, which increases as the discrepancy increases is a average value of squared error and the value is computed by 9 hours data from 9am to 18pm that is official open hours of K hospital   7  Server  Check-in 0.170783 Consultation 4.37814 X-Ray 19.50526 Payment 3.40005 Physical therapy 2.143478 Table 5 Comparison of likelihood values  The comparison result is summarized in Table 5 The check-in process has very small which means high accuracy of simulation model. It is because the arrival rate of check-in does not involve any uncertainty in time computation. The for the X-ray process is the largest. It is mainly because of relative inaccuracy in service time estimation and relatively small number of service instances. The number of XFigure 6 The Arena Simulation Model  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 
 


Ray patients is only a small fraction of checked-in patients. Probabilistic distribution matches with actual instances better when the number of instances is high  5.  Conclusion  This paper presents a simple yet effective method of computing the service time distribution from incomplete timestamp information. We applied the proposed method for a case study of a mid-size hospital, and obtained a reasonably accurate simulation model. We are currently pursuing several promising directions for enhancing the accuracy of simulation model. We are also utilizing the developed simulation model to analyze the impact of a reservation system to the hospital under study in a separate paper   6. References  1 Ro na ld E. G i a c h e tti, E d w i n A  Ce nte n o  Ma rt ha A   Centrno and Ramakrishnan Sundaram, "Assessing the viability of an open access policy in an outpatient clinic: a discrete-event and continuous simulation modeling approach Winter Simulation Conference 2005 2  Ming G uo M i c h a e l W a g n e r a n d C ons ta nc e W e s t   Outpatient clinic scheduling - a simulation approach  Winter Simulation Conference 2004    P  R Har p er and H   M  Ga m l i n  Red u ced ou t p at i e n t  waiting times with improved appointment scheduling: a simulation modeling approach OR Spectrum Vol. 25, pp 207-222, 2003  4  P e te r T  Va nbe r k e l a nd J o hn T  B l a k e  A c o m p r e he ns iv e simulation for wait time reduction and capacity planning applied in general surgery Health Care Manage Science  Vol. 10, pp. 373-385, 2007  5 M a r k W I s ken a n d V i j a y a n S u gu m a r a n  C o l l ect i o n an d preparation of sensor network data to support modeling and analysis of outpatient clinics Health Care Manage Science  Vol. 8, pp. 87-99, 2005   Bradl ey P  M o rr i s o n and Barb ara C  Bi r d  A methodology for modeling front office and patient care processes in ambulatory health care Winter Simulation Conference 2003  7 W  D a v i d K e lton, Ra n d a ll P S a dow s k i, D a v i d T Sturroc k  and W. Kelton Simulation with Arena 4th edition, McGrawHills, 2006  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 
 


  8 B IOGRAPHIES   Robert J. Kerczewski has been involved with research and development of satellite communications systems and applications since for the Analex Corporation \(19821986\\(1986present\.  He holds a BEE degree from Cleveland State University \(1982\an MSEE degree from Case Western Reserve University \(1987\s currently the Project Manager for the NASA\222s Advanced CNS Architectures and System Technologies \(ACAST  James. M. Budinger is a senior engineer in the Communications Systems Integration Branch at NASA Glenn Research Center GRC\ Cleveland Ohio Over nearly 30 years of service at NASA, Mr Budinger has lead research and advanced technology development for both space and aeronautical communications as a researcher, supervisor, and technology project manager.  He holds MSEE and BEE degrees from Cleveland State University Mr. Budinger received a NASA Exceptional Service Medal in 2003 for outstanding project and technical achievements in the development of advanced communications t echnology. Most recently, he led NASA\222s technology assessment for the Eurocontrol/FAA-NASA Future Communications Study to determine an internationally harmonized solution for the next generation of aeronautical voice and data communications.  Currently, he leads GRC\222s research in airport surface wireless communications via a cooperative agreement with Sensis Corporation for the NextGen CNS Test Bed at GRC and three nearby regional airports  David E. Brooks has over 14 years of advanced IP networking and advanced RF communication system integration experience on various projects at Glenn Research Center at Lewis Field as a Support Service Contractor\(SSC for Sterling Software, Inc 1994-1999\nite Global Infrastructures, LLC 1999-2006 MorganFranklin Corporation \(2006Present have included Advanced Communication Technology Satellite\(ACTS high data terminal experiments, Ku-band networking link experiments using mobile and air assets under Advanced Air Transportation Technologies\(AATT\supporting wireless/wired airport surface Ne xGen research activities He holds a BEE degree from Cl eveland State University 1992\SEE degree from Cleveland State University 1997  Robert P. Dimond is currently employed by Verizon Business working on several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments 
 


  Confidentiality measures directed toward the system itself may include authentication, authorization and directories. On the information side, single signon and identify management are common techniques Activities of the analyzed U.S. hospitals can be located in the upper quadrants increasing their focus on accountability including monitoring and auditing Early approaches checked on system layer monitoring activities; today application and domain layer objects are increasingly monitored and checked for compliance. While Swiss facilities attempt to improve accomplishments of the confidentiality property on the system layer, some unstructured monitoring attempts have been initialized. The upper right quadrants additionally require increased organizational IS security to be successful Administrative and clinical HIS adoption is further progressed at the two U.S. hospitals than at the Swiss ones. This seems to be influenced by market and organizational factors h ile th eir tech n i cal IS security capability is only slightly more advanced organizational IS security capabilities are significantly higher. Test plans and procedures are incorporated into operations at U.S. hospitals. Relative spending and budget for IT and IS security in relation to revenue are comparable between hospitals, except CH 2 which spends significantly less than the other facilities  4.6. Security in Heterogeneous IS  Most HIS today consist of a multitude of heterogeneous and fragmented components, accentuating the impracticability of completely monolithic systems. As a result, applications differ widely not only in business functionality but also in technical design and architecture, the rigor of applied security engineering techniques, and the support of security-related mechanisms and functions. Many vendors and service providers do not facilitate security interoperability due to a lack of standards. For example, authentication credentials are extractable from directory services with most contemporary applications; legacy systems do not provide such support. Generic authorization standards do not optimally model the workflow of multi-level, multi-user environments. Auditing trail data for applications and information is often not available and no interoperability protocol exists Many applications are interlinked using health care specific messaging protocols, disseminating sensitive information unauthenticated to a variety of distributed, possibly unauthorized applications that may be located beyond the security perimeter. Dependence of information flows and system components are fragmentarily identified To retain the combined system manageability of information, application, and system components, it is essential to obtain an aggregated representation for each information entity and its dependence on application and underlying computing and infrastructure components. Frequently, information entities are stored within multiple application components, which rely on their part on a variety of physical computing and storage devices. Due to regulations of health and personal information, it is essential to include application and domain layer elements in the representation and therefore go beyond the inventory lists of system and networking infrastructure, which can be easily obtained by commercial tools In addition to a heterogeneous application system environment, the components are used in different manners and settings. For example, clinical settings require authenticated access-levels dependent on the business function of the user, session lengths dependent on access patterns, and access to multiple applications for short intervals by a variety of personnel Often client terminals are shared by many professionals for practical reasons, but information access and modification needs to be accountable to each individual. The predicament of accessing vital health information lies in its dichotomy of obtaining timely access versus confidentiality and integrity concerns only allowing permitted and authenticated care providers to read and modify potentially life-threatening information. On the one hand, generic and unrefined authentication and authorization procedures may severely limit productivity and efficiency of clinicians On the other hand, lax security controls defeat the described requirements. Security controls and policies need to be specifically crafted and specified for each asset, resulting in the most effective protection of the information entity. The component owner carries the responsibility for the asset and makes decisions according to the organization s security specifications and budget  5. Conclusion  In this paper we discuss security aspects of Health Information Systems. In particular, four case studies on two U.S. and two Swiss hospitals are summarized and the results of the case studies compared with respect to different issues The empirical research showed that IS security in hospitals lacks some controls, in particular organizational measures. Size and IT diffusion as well as specific regulations influence organizational IS security Usage patterns of clinicians and heterogeneous application systems exacerbate security efforts Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


  U.S. organizations seem to have more controls in place than their Swiss counterparts. Technical security controls have become part of their system lifecycle. However, they still lack more advanced security and authentication controls  References  1 Ide ntity T h e f t Re sourc e Ce nte r  200 7 Da ta  Breach Stats," itrc, San Diego, 2008 http://idtheftmostwanted.org/ITRC%20Breach 20Stats%20Report%202007.pdf 2 P r ic e W a t e r hous e C o ope rs  2 00 8 Inf o rm a tion Se curity Breaches Survey", Technical Report PWC, London, 2008 http://www.pwc.co.uk/pdf BERR_ISBS_2008\(sml 3 M.F. C o llen  A History of Medical Informatics in the United States, 1950 to 1990 American Medical Informatics Association, Indianapolis 1995 4 B. Middle t on W  E. H a m m ond, P  F  Bre nna n   and G.F. Cooper, "Accelerating U.S. EHR Adoption: How to Get There From Here. Recommendations Based on the 2004 ACMI Retreat Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association 12 \(1\2005, pp. 13-19  T  U Dai m  R T  T a r m an  an d N Baso g l u   E x ploring Barriers to Innovation Diffusion in Health Care Service Organizations: An Issue for Effective Integration of Service Architecture and Information Proceedings of the 41st Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE Los Alamitos, 2008 6 C.S. G a rrard  H u m an Co m p u t er In teractio n s   Can Computers Improve the Way Doctors Work Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift 130 \(42\, 2000, pp. 1557-1563 7 U  S. D e pa rtm e nt of He a lth H u m a n Se rv ice s   Health Insurance Reform: Security Standards HHS, Washington, 2003 http://www.cms.hhs.gov/SecurityStandard Downloads/securityfinalrule.pdf 8 G  F. K nolm a y e r a nd G  L oos li I T  G o v e rna n c e   in Handbuch Kompetenzmanagement R. Zaugg Ed., Haupt, Bern, 2006, pp. 449-457 9 Yin   Case Study Research: Design and Methods 3rd ed., Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, 2003 10  Bunde s a m t f  r Sic h e r he it in de r Inf o rm a tions technik, "IT-Grundschutz-Kataloge," BSI, Kln 2005 http://www.bsi.bund.de/gshb/deutsch/index.htm 11 L  thi Information System Security in Health Information Systems - Exploratory Research in US and Swiss Acute-Care Hospitals Eul Verlag Lohmar, 2008   12  N a tiona l Ins tit ute of Sta nda rd a nd T e c hnolog y   An Introductory Resource Guide for Implementing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA\curity Rule National Institute of Standard and Technology, Gaithersburg, 2008 13  Eidg e ns s i s c he r D a te ns c hutz b e a u f t rag t e r ED S B Leitfaden zu den technischen und organisatorischen Massnahmen des Datenschutzes http://www.edoeb.admin.ch/dokumentation/0044 5/00472/00935/index.html?lang=de 14  N  M. L o re nz i a nd R  T  Rile y   Managing Technological Change: Organizational Aspects of Health Informatics 2nd ed., Springer, New York 2004 1 A  Bh attach erje e an d N Hi k m et  P h y sician s' R e sistance toward Healthcare Information Technologies: A Dual-Factor Model Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2007 16  R. Sp an jers, W  Hasselbring R. P e t e rso n and M  Smits, "Exploring ICT Enabled Networking in Hospital Organisations Proceedings of the 34th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences IEEE, Los Alamitos 2001 1 T h e A d vi so r y Bo ard Co m p an y   Toward Integrated Identity and Access Management The Advisory Board Company, Washington, 2006 18  B  B l obe l A uthoris a t i on a nd A c c e s s C ontrol f o r Electronic Health Record Systems International Journal of Medical Informatics 73 \(3\, 2004, pp 251-257 1 J E  M  l l er an d H  V o segaard  E xp erien ces w ith  Electronic Health Records IT Professional 10 2 2008, pp. 19-23 20  S. K a hn a n d V She s ha dr i M e d ic a l R e c o r d P r ivacy and Security in a Digital Environment IT Professional 10 \(2 2008, pp. 46-52 21 R   A nde r s on Security Engineering: A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems Wiley New York, 2001 22 ISO ISO/IEC 17799: Information Technology Security Techniques - Code of Practice for Information Security Management 2nd ed., ISO, Geneva, 2005 23  P. Me rte n s a nd G  K nolm a y e r Organisation der Informationsverarbeitung 3rd ed., Gabler, Wiesbaden, 1998 24  B.B. W a ng T  T  H. W a n  D.E Bu rk e, G  J. Bazzoli, and B.Y.J. Lin, "Factors Influencing Health Information System Adoption in American Hospitals Health Care Management Review 30 \(1 2005, pp. 44-51  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


several projects at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland Ohio.  His career spans nearly twenty years involving the research implementation, and troubleshooting of network protocols and applications within satellite, mobile, and aeronautical environments pre></body></html 


common concern was compliance with the Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act \(HIPAA information privacy. Organizations were unsure whether DP products would be HIPAA compliant and even if the products themselves were secure whether their onboard information could be kept secure when the pens are small and easily lost  3.4.3. Implications for DP. Although there was substantial interest in DP technology among professional services and white collar organizations the ethnographic findings suggest that delivering appropriate value from DP technology would be difficult. The first barrier would be providing a platform that either conforms to or changes current behaviors around pen and paper: free availability of pens and unpatterned paper in the workplace behaviors of writing on environmental paper, and the need to keep up with a personal pen with one?s data The second barrier would be to meet expectations around text; much of the value was seen as being in retention and searching of textual information, but this would be made difficult by the frequent inclusion of acronyms, abbreviations symbols, and foreign languages. Many organizations saw value in centralized repositories that would manage DP information across many employees; this would require an IT infrastructure that was not available \(e.g., to manage the DP pattern space might be difficult and expensive to develop and maintain. It also poses questions about privacy, since employees might not wish the archive to retain personal information captured alongside work notes Finally, because we noted real or perceived barriers that were highly specific to various industries it appeared that DP solutions would be most likely to succeed if they were tailored to very specific settings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 and use cases. This does not argue against DP usage and its value, but it suggests that delivering value to organizations may require substantially more design and development effort than a single general solution or platform would provide  4. Discussion  Our findings show that the interaction model of DP technology diverges substantially from common pen and paper usage. This divergence leads to unclear utility of DP for consumer note-taking purposes, and in a field trial, resulted in high abandonment rate of a consumer DP product. Among the most significant limitations were the low value seen in review of facsimile notes on a PC, the requirement with DP to use a special pen paired with patterned paper, and the low perceived value of capturing only notes taken on blank paper as opposed to handouts and other materials. In the enterprise space, the environmental issues were even more prominent due to the common infrastructure of freely available, communal pens and paper and the lack of IT infrastructure for DP document retention The note-taking research reported here suggests that writing behavior comprises many important areas besides capture, retention, and review of specific data. For instance, a single blank piece of paper or a one-word reminder may adequately serve as a reminder to do something that one intends, even though there may be little or no content as such Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending 


Likewise, in interpersonal contexts such as attending a lecture, it may be socially desirable to take notes even if they are later simply disposed. Taking notes may also serve purposes of memory consolidation even when the content is never reviewed [8][9  4.1 DP and Writing Acts  Linguistic acts in social context have been described using a model of performative behavior commonly known as ?speech acts? theory [15 Chapman [2] extended that model to encompass writing, suggesting that many aspects of ?writing acts are unique and separate from spoken language.  In the extended model, writing acts may be described with a multidimensional taxonomy encompassing a writer?s context, aspects of the process, type of content, and linguistic features of the content Table 3 summarizes the dimensions of writing acts \(from [2 exemplify each dimension. For instance, ?separability denotes the extent to which items in a document are logically independent of one another; in a contract nothing is separable because the document is a single piece, while on a to-do list, many or all items may be independent of one another [2 DP technology may benefit from attention to the dimensions that are exemplified by writing acts embedded in social contexts. DP systems may be able to perform some kinds of writing acts quite well, but in other cases, DP may be inconvenient, unnecessary or inappropriate. Models such as the writing acts framework can be used both to understand user behavior broadly and systematically to explore the applicability of DP products across the general space of writing behavior A key problem for DP in note taking applications is that note taking can involve nearly every possible dimension of writing acts. Notes may be separable or not; they may serve as functional content or as contextual reminders; they may present just the facts? or be more interpretive; they may be transient or might be intended to be archival documents; and so forth. In short, notes are able to present a vast array of writing styles that pose substantially different value propositions and technological implications for DP products Delivering a general DP solution for note taking may therefore be expected to be difficult  Table 3: Dimensions of Writing Acts [2  Dimension Exemplars Separability a contract vs. a to-do list Function a typed inventory list vs calligraphy Emotionality a love letter vs. a packing slip Spatiality a transcript of speech vs. a diagram depicting concept relationships Associativity notes from class vs. doodling Linearity chronological notes vs. notes placed in a spatial ordering scheme Originality an essay vs. feedback on a manuscript Prescriptivity a signature vs. general notes Finality a document that will be archival vs. one that is a draft Structure a grocery list vs. concepts from a brainstorm Personality a letter to someone vs. a 


Personality a letter to someone vs. a journalistic essay Formality a business letter vs. a greeting card to a close friend  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 For product development purposes, the writing acts framework can be used to ensure coverage of use cases by generating possible scenarios combining various attributes of written documents. These potential combinations may then be explored evaluated, and prioritized for research attention development effort, or testing  4.2 Possible Directions for DP Technology  4.2.1. Note taking. What would make DP technology more popular for note taking? Our research suggests that this is a complex question because there are numerous behavioral barriers. The largest single problem for DP may be that it is a closed system comprising a special pen and patterned paper and does not function with the wide array of writing utensils and paper products that people use especially for environmentally available pens, paper and documents. If this problem could be solved or mitigated through an expanded DP technology platform, DP would avoid the large behavioral block posed by the current need for users to change their existing pen and paper habits DP effectively focuses on notes as data neglecting many aspects of the embedded social nature and process function of notes. If DP notes were easily integrated into a wider range of behavioral processes, adoption should increase. For example, if notes could be automatically handled for content such as phone numbers, appointment times reminders, temporary content, and the like, then the DP platform would come closer to matching current pen and paper usage. However, in many cases, there is a separate and larger issue: computer technology today also is not integrated into such processes. To take a simple example, consider a written grocery list Even if the problem could be solved to recognize extract, and transfer the list to a PC, it would be of little use because, for most people, the PC itself is not integrated into the grocery shopping process. Much information of this kind is transient; there is no need to manage or retain it once the paper has been used An example of potentially closer workflow integration is shown in the recently released Livescribe Pulse Smartpen [11], which couples the Anoto DP platform with audio recording such that note takers can review the audio of a meeting or lecture at the exact point that a note was written. We believe that these kinds of additions to base DP functionality are likely to appeal to specific niches of users, but as more use cases like these are enabled over time, DP may successively attain value for larger numbers of users In our field trials and organizational visits, one of the most common customer expectations was that DP notes should be converted from handwriting to text; respondents commonly noted that PC data is of little use unless it is transcribed to text. To meet customer demands, a DP product will need to address this expectation: the DP must either deliver text recognition with very high accuracy, which is a difficult problem, or it should manage the expectation in some other way that preserves customer perception of value from PC integration 


of value from PC integration The high cost of DP products \(approximately US 100 for a pen, plus the need for specially patterned paper demonstrable additional benefit. Transferring notes from paper to a PC today merely involves typing Unless the need for automation is great and the DP function is nearly perfect, users may simply prefer to type or to carry paper rather than to change behavior to use expensive and less flexible technology  4.2.2. Structured input. As noted in the Introduction above, another use case for DP technology is structured input of information. In particular, DP technology may be useful for form-based input into database and workflow systems, where information is initially recorded on paper forms and then automatically transferred from the pen to a database application. Although the present research report is concerned primarily with note taking applications, in the course of our enterprise research we discussed potential applications for forms-based DP usage We noted possible use cases that fell into five general areas: \(1 easier input of information by customers, such as clients filling out deposit or withdrawal slips at a bank; \(2 information from paper to database without needing to rekey or type the information, such as factory inspection and quality assurance logs, traffic tickets shipping manifests, and so forth; \(3 environments that were not suitable for handheld computing devices, such as construction sites and some kinds of manufacturing facilities; \(4 in which paper-based records are desirable for either employee compliance or customer comfort, such as medical settings; and \(5 based records are necessary, e.g., for legal reasons but a DP product could support faster turnaround and error correction. An example of such application involved financial forms that undergo offsite optical character recognition; a DP system might allow immediate recognition and error correction We plan to report this line of research fully in the future. For now, we note that each of those areas has various benefits and potential limitations with regard to DP technology. Forms-based use cases are more precisely defined and structured than note taking, in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 terms of environment, workflow, and content; the information context, form design, and potential for systems integration with rapid feedback may mitigate issues with handwriting recognition; and enterprise customers may be less price sensitive than consumers Thus, structured input appears to be a more promising near-future application of DP technology than note taking  4.3 Research Discussion  As we noted above, the present research was primarily behavioral and qualitative. Thus, despite the strength and consistency of our results across multiple samples, contexts, and locations, we present no specific metrics or tested hypotheses on user behavior with DP products. Our findings could be used to inform directional hypotheses for future depth or quantitative research. For instance, one might formulate and test hypotheses about cultural differences, interest levels in DP between various groups such as professional and non-professional 


office workers, market research metrics such as price sensitivity, and the like It is important to underscore the value of ethnographic fieldwork in the present research. It would be possible to conduct design research that explores how to make DP technology better, e.g., in terms of usability and function, without investigating exactly what people would do with such products and why. It was only when we investigated behavior in depth that we discovered the divergence of DP products? limited current value for note taking, as opposed to the high value that one might presume in the absence of depth research  5. Conclusion  In our research, initial trials of digital pens in a controlled setting \(Research Series 2 above suggested potentially good fit between digital pen functionality and consumer note taking needs However, when we explored real world behavior in note taking \(Research Series 1, 3, and 4 above found many potential barriers to adoption of digital pens for note taking. In particular, traditional pen and paper offer advantages in terms of cost, widespread and ad hoc availability, flexibility to work with multiple sources seamlessly, behavioral workflow integration, and manageability of content The value of using digital pens will increase if manufacturers are able to expand their platform technology progressively to enable broader coverage of behavioral scenarios and habits, focusing on the broad range of writing behaviors rather than just needs for facsimile replication on a computer Alternatively, digital pen technology may be more easily applied to tasks involving structured input rather than unstructured note taking We suggest that DP development efforts should use existing linguistic frameworks \(e.g., [2 the space of writing acts of interest. This should allow DP products to target behavioral needs in a more focused manner, leading to higher customer adoption  6. Acknowledgements  We thank many people who participated in this research: first and foremost, the numerous research participants, firms, and organizations who so generously shared their time and insights, but who must remain confidential; and many colleagues and research partners at Microsoft who collaborated on the technology investigation and research efforts especially Jeff Staiman, Vince Ball, Brian Williams Yoshiyuki Moriya, Stephen Cooper, Dave Shen Setsuko Arimatsu, Benjamin Babcock, Dennis Meinhardt, John Chiloyan, Glen Larsen, Mehrdad Basseri, Lori Birtley, Ken Hinckley, and Jian Wang  7. References  1] Anoto Group. Digital pen and paper. Web page http://www.anoto.com/?id=158, last retrieved May 28 2008  2] Chapman, C. N. Writing acts: taxonomy and technological implications. Paper presented at North American Computing and Philosophy \(CAP Corvallis, OR, August 2005  3] Despont-Gros, C., B?uf, C., Geissbuhler, A., and Lovis C. \(2005 


C. \(2005 Implementation and Use in an Existing Clinical Information System. In Connecting Medical Informatics and Bio-Informatics: Proceedings of MIE2005 - The XIXth International Congress of the European Federation for Medical Informatics, 328-333. IOS Press, 2005  4] Fetterman, D. M. Ethnography, 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks CA: Sage, 1997  5] Furukawa, N.  Ikeda, H.  Kato, Y.  Sako, H. D-Pen: a digital pen system for public and business enterprises. In Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition 2004: Proceedings of the Ninth International Workshop on Frontiers in Handwriting Recognition \(IWFHR-9 2004  6] Guimbreti  re, F. 2003. Paper augmented digital documents. In Proceedings of the 16th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 UIST ?03 November 2003  7] Holman, D., Vertegaal, R., Altosaar, M., Troje, N., and Johns, D. 2005. Paper windows: interaction techniques for digital paper. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(CHI ?05 Portland, Oregon. New York: ACM, 2005  8] Kiewra, K., DuBois, N., Christian, D., McShane, A Meyerhoffer, M., &amp; Roskelley, D. Note-taking functions and techniques. Journal of Educational Psychology, 83 240-245, 1991  9] Kobayashi, K. Combined effects of note-taking/reviewing on learning and enhancements through interventions: a meta-analytic review. Educational Psychology, 26, 459-477, 2006  10] Liao, C., Guimbreti  re, F., and Hinckley, K. 2005 PapierCraft: a command system for interactive paper. In Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on User interface Software and Technology \(UIST ?05 Seattle, WA. New York: ACM, 2005  11] Livescribe. Pulse Smartpen [electronic device http://www.livescribe.com/, last retrieved May 28, 2008  12] Logitech. io2 Digital Pen [electronic device http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/mice_pointers/digital_ pen/devices/408&amp;cl=us,en, last retrieved May 28, 2008  13] Norrie, M. C., Signer, B., and Weibel, N. Print-n-link weaving the paper web. In Proceedings of the 2006 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering \(DocEng '06 New York: ACM, 2006  14] Randall, D., Harper, R., and Rouncefield, M Fieldwork for Design: Theory and Practice. London Springer-Verlag, 2007  15] Searle, J. R. Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1969  16] Sellen, A. J. and Harper, R. H. The Myth of the Paperless Office. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003  17] Signer, B. and Norrie, M. C. 2007. PaperPoint: a paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping 


paper-based presentation and interactive paper prototyping tool. In Proceedings of the 1st international Conference on Tangible and Embedded interaction \(TEI ?07 Baton Rouge, Louisiana. New York: ACM, 2007  18] Tanabe, K., Yoshihara, M., Kameya, H., Mori, S Omata, S., Ito, T., Automatic Signature Verification Based on the Dynamic Feature of Pressure. Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition \(ICDAR ?01 Computer Society, 2001   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 pre></body></html 


The HyspIRI mission utilizes innovative techniques to both reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted to the ground and accommodate the required data volume on the ground The infrastructure and techniques developed by this mission will open the door to future high data volume science missions The designs presented here are the work of the authors and may differ from the current HyspIRI mission baseline A CKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and was sponsored by the Space Grant program and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration R EFERENCES  K W ar\002eld T  V  Houten C Hee g V  Smith S Mobasser B Cox Y He R Jolly C Baker S Barry K Klassen A Nash M Vick S Kondos M Wallace J Wertz Chen R Cowley W Smythe S Klein L Cin-Young D Morabito M Pugh and R Miyake 223Hyspiri-tir mission study 2007-07 002nal report internal jpl document,\224 TeamX 923 Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 July 2007  R O Green 223Hyspiri summer 2008 o v ervie w  224 2008 Information exchanged during presentation  S Hook 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting discussion July 16th  R O Green 223Measuring the earth wi th imaging spectroscopy,\224 2008  223Moore s la w Made real by intel inno v ation 224 http://www.intel.com/technology/mooreslaw/index.htm  T  Doggett R Greele y  S Chein R Castano and B Cichy 223Autonomous detection of cryospheric change with hyperion on-board earth observing-1,\224 Remote Sensing of Environment  vol 101 pp 447\226462 2006  R Castano D Mazzoni N T ang and T  Dogget 223Learning classi\002ers for science event detection in remote sensing imagery,\224 in Proceedings of the ISAIRAS 2005 Conference  2005  S Shif fman 223Cloud detection from satellite imagery A comparison of expert-generated and autmatically-generated decision trees.\224 ti.arc.nasa.gov/m/pub/917/0917 Shiffman  M Griggin H Burk e D Mandl and J Miller  223Cloud cover detection algorithm for eo-1 hyperion imagery,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2003 IGARSS 03 Proceedings 2003 IEEE International  vol 1 pp 86\22689 July 2003  V  V apnik Advances in Kernel Methods Support Vector Learning  MIT Press 1999  C Bur ges 223 A tutorial on support v ector machines for pattern recognition,\224 Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery  vol 2 pp 121\226167 1998  M Klemish 223F ast lossless compression of multispectral imagery internal jpl document,\224 October 2007  F  Rizzo 223Lo w-comple xity lossless compression of h yperspectral imagery via linear prediction,\224 p 2 IEEE Signal Processing Letters IEEE 2005  R Roosta 223Nasa jpl Nasa electronic parts and packaging program.\224 http://nepp.nasa.gov/docuploads/3C8F70A32452-4336-B70CDF1C1B08F805/JPL%20RadTolerant%20FPGAs%20for%20Space%20Applications.pdf December 2004  I Xilinx 223Xilinx  Radiation-hardened virtex-4 qpro-v family overview.\224 http://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation data sheets/ds653.pdf March 2008  G S F  Center  223Tdrss o v ervie w  224 http://msp.gsfc.nasa.gov/tdrss/oview.html 7  H Hemmati 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about LaserComm  223W orldvie w-1 224 http://www digitalglobe.com/inde x.php 86/WorldView-1 2008  223Sv albard ground station nor way.\224 http://www.aerospacetechnology.com/projects/svalbard 7 2008  223Satellite tracking ground station 224 http://www.asf.alaska.edu/stgs 2008  R Flaherty  223Sn/gn systems o v ervie w  224 tech rep Goddard Space Flight Center NASA 7 2002  223Geoe ye-1 f act sheet 224 http://launch.geoeye.com/launchsite/about/fact sheet.aspx 2008  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-720 Transmitter  5 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T720 Ku-Band TDRSS Transmitter  L-3 Communications/Cincinnati Electronics Space Electronics 7500 Innovation Way Mason OH 45040 T-722 X-Band  7 2007 PDF Spec Sheet for the T-722  J Smith 07 2008 Information e xchanged during meeting about GDS  J Carpena-Nunez L Graham C Hartzell D Racek T Tao and C Taylor 223End-to-end data system design for hyspiri mission.\224 Jet Propulsion Laboratory Education Of\002ce 2008  J Behnk e T  W atts B K obler  D Lo we S F ox and R Meyer 223Eosdis petabyte archives Tenth anniversary,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2005 Proceedings 22nd IEEE  13th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 81\22693 April 2005 19 


 M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolving a ten year old data system,\224 Space Mission Challenges for Information Technology 2006 SMC-IT 2006 Second IEEE International Conference on  pp 8 pp.\226 July 2006  S Marle y  M Moore and B Clark 223Building costeffective remote data storage capabilities for nasa's eosdis,\224 Mass Storage Systems and Technologies 2003 MSST 2003 Proceedings 20th IEEE/11th NASA Goddard Conference on  pp 28\22639 April 2003  223Earth science data and information system esdis project.\224 http://esdis.eosdis.nasa.gov/index.html  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Evolution of the earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis\\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2006 IGARSS 2006 IEEE International Conference on  pp 309\226312 31 2006Aug 4 2006  223Earth science mission operations esmo 224 http://eos.gsfc.nasa.gov/esmo  E Masuoka and M T eague 223Science in v estig ator led global processing for the modis instrument,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2001 IGARSS 01 IEEE 2001 International  vol 1 pp 384\226386 vol.1 2001  M Esf andiari H Ramapriyan J Behnk e and E So\002nowski 223Earth observing system eos data and information system eosdis 227 evolution update and future,\224 Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium 2007 IGARSS 2007 IEEE International  pp 4005\2264008 July 2007  D McAdam 223The e v olving role of tape in the data center,\224 The Clipper Group Explorer  December 2006  223Sun microsystems announces w orld s 002rst one terabyte tape storage drive.\224 http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/pr/200807/sun\003ash.20080714.2.xml July 2008  223P anasas 227 welcome 224 http://www panasas.com  R Domikis J Douglas and L Bisson 223Impacts of data format variability on environmental visual analysis systems.\224 http://ams.confex.com/ams/pdfpapers/119728.pdf  223Wh y did nasa choose hdf-eos as the format for data products from the earth observing system eos instruments?.\224 http://hdfeos.net/reference/Info docs/SESDA docs/NASA chooses HDFEOS.php July 2001  R E Ullman 223Status and plans for hdfeos nasa's format for eos standard products.\224 http://www.hdfeos.net/hdfeos status HDFEOSStatus.htm July 2001  223Hdf esdis project.\224 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/projects/esdis/index.html August 2007  223W elcome to the ogc website 224 http://www.opengeospatial.org 2008  223Open gis Gis lounge geographic information systems.\224 http://gislounge.com/open-gis Christine M Hartzell received her B.S in Aerospace Engineering for Georgia Institute of Technology with Highest Honors in 2008 She is currently a PhD student at the University of Colorado at Boulder where she is researching the impact of solar radiation pressure on the dynamics of dust around asteroids She has spent two summers working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission with particular emphasis on the cloud detection algorithm development and instrument design Jennifer Carpena-Nunez received her B.S in physics in 2008 from the University of Puerto Rico where she is currently a PhD student in Chemical Physics Her research involves 002eld emission studies of nanostructures and she is currently developing a 002eld emission setup for further studies on nano\002eld emitters The summer of 2008 she worked at JPL on the HyspIRI mission There she was responsible for the science analysis of the data handling system speci\002cally de\002ning the data level and processing and determining potential mission collaborations Lindley C Graham is currently a junior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where she is working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering She spent last summer working at JPL on the data handling system for the HyspIRI mission focusing on developing a data storage and distribution strategy 20 


David M Racek is a senior working toward a B.S in Computer Engineering at Montana State University He works in the Montana State Space Science and Engineering Laboratory where he specializes in particle detector instruments and circuits He spent last summer working at JPL on compression algorithms for the HyspIRI mission Tony S Tao is currently a junior honor student at the Pennsylvania State University working towards a B.S in Aerospace Engineering and a Space Systems Engineering Certi\002cation Tony works in the PSU Student Space Programs Laboratory as the project manager of the OSIRIS Cube Satellite and as a systems engineer on the NittanySat nanosatellite both of which aim to study the ionosphere During his work at JPL in the summer of 2008 Tony worked on the communication and broadcast system of the HyspIRI satellite as well as a prototype Google Earth module for science product distribution Christianna E Taylor received her B.S from Boston University in 2005 and her M.S at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 She is currently pursing her PhD at the Georgia Institute of Technology and plans to pursue her MBA and Public Policy Certi\002cate in the near future She worked on the ground station selection for the HyspIRI mission during the summer of 2008 and looks forward to working at JPL in the coming year as a NASA GSRP fellow Hannah R Goldberg received her M.S.E.E and B.S.E from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in 2004 and 2003 respectively She has been employed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology since 2004 as a member of the technical staff in the Precision Motion Control and Celestial Sensors group Her research interests include the development of nano-class spacecraft and microsystems Charles D Norton is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology He received his Ph.D in Computer Science from Rensselaer and his B.S.E in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from Princeton University Prior to joining JPL he was a National Research Council resident scientist His work covers advanced scienti\002c software for Earth and space science modeling with an emphasis on high performance computing and 002nite element adaptive methods Additionally he is leading efforts in development of smart payload instrument concepts He has given 32 national and international keynote/invited talks published in numerous journals conference proceedings and book chapters He is a member of the editorial board of the journal Scienti\002c Programming the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing a Senior Member of IEEE recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award and a NASA Exceptional Service Medal 21 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





