Wearable computing for patients with coronary diseases Gathering efforts by comparing methods V. Rocha 1,3 P. Borza 4  J. Correia 1  G. Gonçalves 3  A. Puscas 4 R. Seromenho 5 A. Mascioletti 2 A. Picano 2 S. Cocorada 4 M.Carp 4 1 INOVAMAIS valter.rocha, joao.correia}@inovamais.pt 2 LABOR, {a.mascioletti, a.picano}@labor-roma.it 3 Informatics Engineering Department, University of Porto, {vrocha, gil.goncalves}@fe.up.pt 4 Transilvania University of  Brasov Electronics and Co 
mputers Department {borzapn, sorin.cocorada}@unitbv.ro ana_maria.puscas, mari us.carp}@yahoo.com 5 ricardo_seromenho@net.sapo.pt AbstractCardiovascular diseases are a prime cause of mortality and morbidity around the world. The World Health Organization names this as a global epidemic identifying it as a big challenge to Information and Communication Technologies that can provide valuable tools to improve population health and well-being In tandem with a strategy to provide information and education to individuals at risk, several projects across the world at national or regional levels are trying to address this challenge 
The HEARTRONIC project developed an innovative system for prevention and early warning by continuous monitoring the heart conditions. This system is wearable by the patient, monitors and analyzes the ECG, and in the event of results that could predict a heart attack or stroke an alert message is sent to a server and then relayed to the responsible healthcare professional The system uses ECG processing for automatic detection of abnormal functioning. First response actions are taken but the healthcare professionals are always in the control The BIOMED-TEL project developed an innovative remote patient monitor that supervises 24 hours/7 days the main patient’s vital signals in its environment. These signs are SpO 
2 ECG one derivation, arterial blood pressure \(BP\, in conjunction with the body vibration acquired from chest zone and, glucose concentration in blood all above mentioned signs being relevant for the health patient status. With the correlation of the signals, the remote monitor is able to dynamical adapt his working regime from local storage of data acquired \(as a classical holter\ to continuously transmission of data acquired from patient to the hospital server, providing a quick time intervention of the health care professional in case of patient’s alarm or emergency situation Both projects are gathering efforts by comparing methods in order to assess the best practices and address the technical chal 
lenges that came across the development of such useful platforms I I NTRODUCTION Cardiovascular diseases \(CVD\se the death of around 4.500.000 people per year in Europe, being the first cause of deaths in this continent. The ch allenge is to provide a real solution for continuous monitoring and real time prevention, by means of early warning, to people already diagnosed as patients with high risk. The evolution of cardiovascular condition of these patients should be taken under close and real time surveillance. Previously to these efforts the only option to monitor patients 24 hours a day was by hospitalization, which accounts for high costs and poses serious limitations to the patients 
quality of life The main goal is to develop a solution that allows patients to go on with a normal life, meantime increasing their expectation of life and improving quality. Information and communication technologies \(ICT\ have already had a significant impact on health care and the delivery of health services. From Telemedicine to electronic health records to RFID to embedded sensors a variety of health ICTs have been shown to improve operational and administrative efficiencies, clinical outcomes documentation and information flow in a variety of global settings, from the home to rural h ealth centers to large urban hospitals The monitoring process of the vital signals of the patients in their environment is one of the most relevant and advanced 
technology developed in the field of Assisted Ambient Living AAL\ecause it increases the possibilities to assist, to help and even to save the patients' life. The monitoring methods are based on a set of wireless and intelligent sensors placed onto the patient. The systems were designed to be suitable for wearable applications. The set of sensors was interconnected with a data concentrator, this one be ing linked through the patient PDA to the hospital server [12 B y interpreting the data sent to the hospital server, a physician will be able to survey the vital signs of the monitored patients thus being able to react quickly and correctly if an alarm occurs or an emergency situation appears. During signal acquiring process \(acquisition, transmission and processing of the vital signals taken from the patient 
it could appear a lot of technical difficulties which can generate an important risk for failures in the patient monitoring procedu  T h e f a ilu re s th at c a n appear are related to s e n s ors accuracy, sensor/patient interfaces, analog signal processing errors, conversion from analog to digital and, of course, to the data transmission between the sensor network placed onto the patient, the data concentrator an d Personal Digital Health Assistant \(PDHA\earable Processing Unit WPU The particularities and differences between both projects could help the other address some of its technical challenges This paper aims to provide a preliminary research on both ap 
 


proaches starting from previous scientific contributions produ   16 1 7],an d  18], g e n e rat i n g a f r a m e w or k f or future collaboration. This framework will boost the development on both ends providing the information gathered on a structured fashion This paper is organized as fo llows. Section II presents the motivation and background on cardiovascular diseases. The Concept of Operation and architect ure, are presented in section III. Section IV describes the algorithms used to detect abnormal conditions and, finally, in section V, the conclusions and future work are discussed II M OTIVATION AND B ACKGROUND The single most important cause of death in the adult population of the industrialized world is Sudden Cardiac Death SCD d u e to cor o n a ry diseas e. SCD is caused by electrical problems that keep the heart from pumping the right way whereas in a heart attack a blockage in blood vessels slows or stops blood flow. SCD causes half of all heart disease deaths Contrary to heart attack, SCD often occurs in people who appear healthy, which can make it difficult to know who is at risk. Treating someone in SCD requires “paddles” to shock the heart, as in for ex ample implantable cardioverter-defibrillator ICD\erapy Chronic coronary artery disease \(CAD i s  m o st co m monly due to obstruction of the coronary arteries by atheromatous plaque. Patients with CAD represent the majority of patients threatened by SCD. In patients convalescing from myocardial infarction, SCD may be as high as 10% in the following 2.5 years. There are a number of other heart diseases and conditions that can lead to SCD Heart diseases and disorders Heart diseases can be classified in three categories: electrical circulatory and structur Electrical heart diseases Characterized by abnormal heart rhythms, called arrhythmias, caused by problems with the electrical system regulating the heartbeat Circulatory: High blood pressure and coronary artery disease are the main culprits in blood vessel disorders. The results, such as stroke or heart attack, can be devastating Structural: Heart muscle disease \(cardiomyopathy and congenital abnormalities are two problems that can damage the heart muscle or valves Millions of people experience irregular heartbeats at some point in their lives but most of these episodes are harmless and are not life threatening. However, some arrhythmias are dangerous and cause sudden cardiac death. Other heart diseases can be dangerous in their own right and can increase the likelihood of arrhythmias Preventing the causes of SCD is the best way of preventing deaths from SCD and there are a number of common risk factors that help identify potential patients There are a number of tests that can be used to determine if someone is in a group that is at high risk for cardiac arrest, including Echocardiogram Sound waves are used to create a moving picture of the heart. This test can measure the pumping ability of the heart and identify other problems that may increase the risk of SCD Electrocardiogram Electrodes are attached to the chest to record the electrical ac tivity of the heart in order to identify abnormal heart rhythms. Certain arrhythmias could point to an increased risk of SCD Holter monitor Walkman-size recorder that patients attach to their chest for one to two days, recording a longer sampling of their heart rhythm. Recorded data are analyzed afterwards for signs of arrhythmia Event recorder Pager-sized device that records the electrical activity of the heart. Unlike a holter monitor, it does not operate continuously and can be used over a longer period of time. Patients turn on the device whenever they feel their heart beating too quickly or chaotically Other tests exist but have to be performed at a hospital or clinic and involve anesthetics. This type of invasive tests is only recommended in very specific cases Currently available computerized monitoring systems for in hospital use are mainly based on electrocardiogram \(ECG monitoring. Figure 1 shows a typical ECG signal, with labels for significant time intervals PR interval \(from beginning of P to beginning of QRS QRS duration \(width of most representative QRS QT interval \(from beginning of QRS to end of T QRS axis in frontal plane Figure  1 Typical ECG wave with main sections identified ECG monitoring enables complex diagnosis of arrhythmias myocardial ischemia and QT inte rval prolongation. SCD is in most cases related with disturbances in one or more of these parameters III Architectures HEARTRONIC The Heartronic project is a cooperative project involving industry and research, technologi cal and medical partners from several European countries. The objectives of this project are not to redesign cardiology but rather to analyze medical and patients needs, to exploit existing and emergent technologies and develop non-invasive and reliable systems and safety tools that respond to doctors and patients requirements. These tools should help improving quality of life and increase life expecta 
 


tion in patients from groups with high risk of SCD The goal of Heartronic project is to develop a system that can detect, record, and analyze any heart anomaly in real time Automatic ECG monitoring and anal ysis is an important part of system however, a mixed initiative approach is used to avoid over-treatment \(i.e. the healthcare professional is in the control loop evaluating and validating the results of the automatic analysis Twenty five medical conditions not all directly related to heart diseases, have already been identified as being suitable for application of the Heartronic system. These include, for example, SCD, CAD, diabetes hypertension, athletic heart syndrome, chronic heart failure, etc. The groups that can potentially benefit from the use of the system include \(but are not limited to Convalescing patients from myocardial infarction \(especially in the following 6 months Patients awaiting Coronary Ar tery Bypass Grafting and after the procedure Asymptomatic patients with or without ventricular tachyarrhythmias, who have impaired left ventricular systolic function Patients with known CAD or after Myocardial Infarction with syncope of unknown origin Patients awaiting ICD therapy A Concepts of Operatio n of the HEARTRONIC System The HEARTRONIC project aims to develop an innovative system for prevention and early warning of cardiovascular events, at least 2-3 hours advance, by continuous monitoring the heart conditions The system will be able to detect any heart anomaly in real time, warn the responsible doctor and send all relevant data to his or hers PC, PDA or smart phone. The doctor will be able to carry out a timely diagnosis, deciding as well the most appropriate intervention to the patient This system must be integrated in a wearable and light support like a shirt or an elastic ba ndage, capable to recognize cardiovascular anomalies and alert doctors and Hospitals in real time B Architecture and Systems Components of HEARTRONIC The system architecture follows a three-tier based architecture: Client, Application and Data. Figure 2 is a schematic description of the overall architecture The client tier contains components such as the Heartronic tshirt \(ECG Sensor array\, the Remote Unit \(RU\ng as gateway, the Mobile Unit \(MU\d a Personal Computer PC\. MU and PCs provide the user interface to the Heartronic application server through wireless connection. An example of a terminal is a PDA. RUs are gateways between the Heartronic wearable processing unit \(WPU\d the application tier and are responsible for integrating devices into the platform. These RUs are part of the patient equipment and they are either a PDA \(or Smart Phone\ith a CF card or an integrated/embedded modem for wireless connectivity Figure  2 General system architecture The application \(or server\tie r contains the Application Server which, by handling data tr ansfer from the client tier to the storage level, makes data access transparent to the client tier Finally, the application server is directly connected to a database \(DB\ server which stor es ECG patterns and additional data useful for screening, analysis and diagnosis WPU transmits data to the RU using Bluetooth connection while the RU is able to connect to the application server using a GPRS/GSM or UMTS \(if available\ection. Both RU Client tier-Patient\nd MU \(Client tier-Doctor\nected to the application server but, in particular circumstances or emergencies, the RU might be able to talk directly to MU in order to send alerts to the doc tor using SMS, MMS, or triggering an emergency phone call Furthermore, using the PC or MU the doctor is able to view information on the patient available on the application server in order to provide remote \(mobile\iagnosis and consultation 1 Heartronic t-Shirt The Heartronic t-shirt, the ECG sensor array, is a wearable light and comfortable device for ECG acquisition. There are several alternative methods and technologies for performing an ECG   In or der to s e lect th e m e t h od u s ed f o r th e  Heartronic t-shirt, several pr ototypes were built and several problems were addressed. One of these problems is the placement of the sensors. The placement of the sensors on the body has extreme importance: they have to be placed in order to better estimate Cardiac vector and better attenuate the muscular noise interference. There are some techniques for measuring Cardiac vector components 7  These problems can be partially resolved using a method of measurement created by Frank, and called Vectorcardiography 8 Figure 3  s h o w s t h e elect ro d e s p o s itio n f o llo w i ng Fran k’s  Leads technique. This was the technique selected for the Heartronic t-shirt, not only because from the theoretic point of view it supplies a better approximation of the heart cardiac vector, but also because from the practical standpoint it is less sensible to the electrodes positio n. Besides, the sensors are easily to place over a t-shirt, for example using a rubber strap contrary to the classic 12-Lead ECG which is difficult to attach to a single strap 
 


Figure  3 Orthogonal Frank’s leads X, Y, Z \(8 sensors A drawback is that usually a physician is not interested to have an estimation of the cardiac vector, but they are interested to observe directly the ECG diagrams because they supply all the information needed \(patient heart state\wever, the three measured differential signals using Frank’s Leads provide the projections of the heart carrier on the sagittal, frontal and transverse plane  s ing Do w e r matrix [9 t he se si gna ls p r o vide 12 tracks diagrams \(12-Lead ECG\he WPU includes a DSP, so to do such mathematical transformation is not a problem. However the problem could reside in the error associated to this transformation. The DSP processor is also responsible of the first patient diagnosis using algorithms to classify ECG abnormalities \(see section IV After selecting the technique that will be used for ECG the next step is to guarantee that a good signal is captured, thus limiting noise amplitude. One big problem in common portable electrocardiograph is noise due to motion artifact. Two sources can generate motion artifact: the electrode metal-to-solution interface and fluctuations in skin potential due to skin stretch The first source of artifact has been significantly reduced with modern Ag-AgCl recessed electrodes, but skin stretch remains a serious problem. Standard methods for reducing motion artifact due to skin stretch require skin abrasion, but this method has significant drawbacks: it causes patient discomfort, it results in more work for the ECG technician, and it can be ineffective for long term recordings The special electrode configura tion suggested by Frank used for Heartronic t-shirt is less se nsitive to motion artifacts and the rubber straps used to fasten the electrodes can help to prevent this kind of signal degradation Moreover digital filters can perform another important step in this cleaning signal process we are designing specific filters with infinite impulse response IIR\d finite impulse response \(FIR\y embedded in the Digital Signal Processor \(DSP\rder to eliminate this kind of artifacts, along with the noise associated with the power line capacitive effect, at the frequency of 50 Hz in Europe and 60 Hz in the USA To reduce ambient captured noise there are at least two possibilities: to screen the t-shirt using a network of electric wires covering the ECG signal wires: in this case the t-shirt could become heavier and less flexible but the noise should be less critical; to use a network of shielded wires: in this case the tshirt is more flexible but more sensible to noise so the filtering block should be more efficient than the first situation We are adopting this second choi ce, so the Heartronic t-shirt is composed by an elastic t-shirt with three rubber straps where are attached all Frank’s Lead s, like it is shown in Figure 4 Figure  4 Heartronic T-shirt prototype The advantages of Frank’s Leads configuration are obvious Adaptable to patient anatomy Frank’s axes are parallel to anatomy body axes Simplicity of electrodes placement Adaptable for Heartronic t-shirt Small susceptibility to interference Three dimensional ST monitoring \(use of Vectorcardiography in ST analysis 2 Wearable Processing Unit \(WPU Typical ECG front-end processing algorithms consist of the following phases Signal acquisition and filtering \(f irst as analog filters and then as digital fi lter on the DSP Initialization, determines initial signal and timing thresholds, positive and negative peak de termination, automatic gain control, etc QRS complex detection, the reliable detection of R-peak is crucial for morphological analysis Baseline correction and first diagnosis, to compensate for low-frequency ECG baseline drift ST segment processing, to detect changes in the ST segment In order to detect very weak el ectrical signals from the heart the WPU must have very high input impedance. A differential mode of amplification is required if the ECG is to be isolated from the large amount of 50 Hz mains interference which is always present. So, as can be seen in Figure 5 the first stage is a differential amplifier, like instrumentation amplifier. The spreading electrical currents creat e different potentials at different points on the body, which can be sensed by electrodes on the skin surface using biological transducers made of metals and salts. This electrical potential is an alternate current \(AC signal with bandwidth of 0.05 Hz to 50 Hz, sometimes up to 100Hz. It is generally around 1-mV peak-to-peak in the presence of much larger external high frequency noise plus 50-/60Hz interference normal-mode \(mixed with the electrode signal and common-mode voltages \(common to all electrode signals The right leg driver is necessary because it applies an inverted 
 


version of the common-mode interference to the subject’s right leg, with the aim of cancelling the interference. Next to this first stage there is a sequence of analog filters, which clean the ECG signal removing noise The core of the WPU is a DSP that collects cleaned chest signals and acceleration data. The adaptive resistor network allows obtaining the Cardiac vector components XYZ from captured chest signals. Every component is cleaned by an analog filtering block and then is sampled by DSP ADC. The Bluetooth communication module is used by the DSP if the analyzes produces an alert Figure  5 WPU detailed block diagram 3 Remote Unit \(RU The Heartronic WPU must send patient data to the application server in order to alert medical services. This data is sent from the WPU to a mobile cellular phone, used only for this purpose, and the mobile phone will send the data to the central database Depending on the services offered by the telecommunications company, the patient information can be completed with geographic information \(localization In case it is necessary to update some parameters on the Heartronic WPU, the central serv er will send the required information to the cellular phone that will deliver it to the Heartronic WPU via Bluetooth When some problem is detected in the ECG analysis, the information sent to the RU and from the RU to the application server is the FFT \(Fast Fourier Transform\ because it contains all needed information in less bytes. This is useful because enables the use of more powerful algorithms in the application Server to find out what problem the patient has and also derive the 12 ECG from the filtered signal Important information to be transmitted in case of a severe warning is the location of the patient, which can be derived from the phone. Presently, a rough localization thr ough the number of the GSM or UMTS cell is available, yet very useful in case of emergency, but one should not forget that precise localization technologies are actively developed to be integrated into next generation portable phones, and will provide a very accurate localization 4 Application Server The data collected by the Heartronic t-shirt is analyzed by the WPU and, in case of alert the data will be sent to the RU which will then send the information to the application server by GPRS or 3G The Server will make an analysis of the case and decide to whom the alert should be sent. The addressed person will have to make a diagnosis with all the available information \(ECG patient history and suggestions\d decide on by an action to take, like false alarm, call the patient or send an ambulance to pick the patient. Figure  6 presents a detailed use case diagram of the application Figure  6 Use case diagram 5 Database The information collected will be stored in a central database MS SQL Server\his database will store Patient medical record: personal data, habits, clinical history, devices in use Persons that inter act with the system Alerts: actions to take and notifications Parameters for the ECG algorithm: the read raw data VCG\btained ECG data, transformation matrices, parameters for the algorithm and results of the algorithm application C Architecture of BIOMEDTEL system The architectural platform proposed by BIOMED TEL project corresponds to the requirements of the application in terms of variety and adequacy of sensors, power computing, low power consumption and low price. Based on intelligent interfaces, the system automatically integrates the sensors in „plug play” mode and also adapts its communication strategy with the hub/dispatcher for cost minimization and for ensuring the reliability and availability of the data link. The architecture of the whole system is organized on four layers and is illustrated in Figure 7 The first layer includes the smart sensors: \(i\G leads with corresponding pre-amplifier, analog to digital converter and microcontroller, \(ii\O 2 sensor with its corresponding preprocessing system, based on a microcontroller, \(iii\sure monitor with its wireless communication interface, \(iv 
 


vibration sensor controlled by ATtiny26 with a programmable filter, \(v\mperature sens or and \(vi\se sensor The second layer includes a data concentrator system developed using AVR32UC3 microcontroller that allows a strong power management for all internal drivers and plays several roles, such as: manages the communication channels between itself and the sensors, assures the filtering of the ECG signal correlates the SpO 2 signal with ECG and vibration signal in order to avoid the artifacts and prepares the telegram that will be transmitted to PDHA, respectively to HS The third layer includes the PDHA \(HTC Hero PDA that assures the multi-modal interface between the patient and the remote monitoring system The fourth layer includes a PC as hospital server \(HS connected to the Internet. This se rver offers an interface to the health care professional that surveys the patients. Into the patients’ data base implemented on the HS all the patient’s vital signs are stored once per day in normal regime and continously in case of alarm or emergency Figure  7 Architectural overview of BIOMEDTEL patient remote monitor The hardware implementation illustrated in Figure 8. corresponds to the first layer of the above described system. This layer includes all the sensors placed on the patient: wearable ECG Ag/AgCl or stainless steel electrodes, accelerometer sensor, blood pressure monitor and SpO 2 sensor The wearable ECG system was designed in compliance with the BS EN 60601/2/25/1995 medical standard for the protection of the patient and was implemented to acquire the biopotential from one bipolar D1 derivation Figure  8 Prototype of the first layer of BIOMEDTEL project The experimental results related to ECG acquisition are illustrated in Figure 9 Figure  9. ECG record obtained with our implemented system while resting In order to avoid the movement artifacts, the system was designed with a vibration \(absolute 3D acceleration\ sensor placed on the patient’s stern. In order to create the proper and similar conditions for ECG recordi ng, the patient is advertised by his PDHA with an audio message to take the correct position for signal acquiring. During ECG recording, the patient’s status is verified by using the ADXL 330 accelerometer. The leads of the ECG channel and also the accelerometer were placed onto the same wearable support. Another major aspect is related to the accelerometer sensor which can provide information about pulmonary and cardiac activities such as respiratory rhythm and cardiac rate The cardiac activity of a resting patient is illustrated in Figure 10 Figure  10 Cardiac activity and breath respiration 
 


The illustrated grey signal represents a not filtered signal and the magenta one represents the corresponding filtered one From the amplitude of the signals it can be seen that the X axis is not so sensitive at the cardiac activity, the Y axis correctly follows the cardiac activity, the peak to peak amplitude being 30 mV and the Z axis is the most sensitive. In clinostats position of patient Z axis will give information about the local gravitational acceleration. This signal could be used as auto calibration signal for all the axis of the acceleration sensor These signals are crucial because they can make easier and accurate the detection and classification of the signal records and can improve the process of status detection of the patient Also, an important bio-physical parameter is the cardiac rhythm information provided by the blood pressure. To acquire the cardiac rhythm it was used an existing Blood pressure device \(VISOMAT400 endowed with an OMRON chipset\ that was adapted thus to be able to communicate with a Bluetooth transceiver \(LMX9838\which transmits the acquired data to the concentrator able to co llect and to interpret them For monitoring SpO 2 it was used the classical method developed by Beer-Lambert to analyze the signals acquired by a dedicated sensor with a dual LED \(IR and Red\d phototransistor \(SF-1011N-Nellcor\to the finger of the patient or at the ear level. This signa l is continuously monitored and represents the leading signal n ecessary to control the regimes of the whole remote patient monitor. In order to offer a high confidence and reliability of the recorded data, this signal was used as referen For monitoring the glucose level from the blood it was used the DEXCOM Seven instrument, which uses a nano-tube carbon sensor implanted in the belly of the patient. The communication with data concentrator is wireless RFM Our set of smart sensors used by the remote patient monitor could be used with high efficiency and accuracy by patients having cardiac, neuronal or metabolic diseases IV A LGORITHMS HEARTRONIC ALGORITHM FOR CLASSIFYING ECG ABNOMALITIES An ECG represents the electrical voltage in the heart during a contraction. Many waves, segments and intervals can be found in the ECG graphic i n d irre g u l ar beat s, t h es e  components have to be searched with signal analysis methods The ECG front-end processing algorithms encompass 5 phases that were already listed in s ection 3.B.1 when the WPU was described Figure 11 shows an example of an ECG lead I, with the marks of the ECG’s components Figure  11 Visualization of an ECG’s Lead I example, with components marks As previously noted, the most commonly used clinical lead configuration is the 12-lead ECG system, which provides twelve waveforms, called leads. To provide such a 12-lead ECG, ten electrodes are placed on the patient’s body and the signals from these electrodes are processed to provide the twelve leads The Heartronic algorithms do not use 12-lead ECG. Only the Orthogonal Frank’s leads X, Y, Z \(8 sensors\ are needed 8 The 12 ECG traces can be obtained by the Frank’s Leads Vectorcardiography T h e 12 E C G traces can be obtained by the Frank’s Leads using Vectorcardiography. Effective filtering algorithms were developed to el iminate harmful baseline fluctuation and possible motion artifacts of the sensors used It was assumed that sampling rate is 512 Hz, which is a suitable choice considering that all the information of the ECG signal is contained in the range of frequencies below 100 Hz The algorithm is composed by several blocks Orthogonalisation reduces the dimension of the signals processed in latter stages Pre-processing reduces the baseline wander, power line interference and electromyographic noise Segmentation finds the individual beats by finding the onset of P wave, the R-peak and the offset of T wave Alignment reduces changes due to respiration and body position changes Matching accounts for the remaining variation Decision takes action if the vectorcardiogram \(VCG loops and there are other anomalies Most of the literature concen trates on immobile patient measurements, which is a considerably easier task than the one where the patient is moving around during measurement. For example, plain heart rate measurement is much less demanding than full ECG analysis Body position changes, respiration and movement cause physical movement of the heart, which in turn is shown as changes in the measured ECG. What is more, these motion artifacts can be quite severe and may easily cause false alarm. Hence, many change detection methods are very vulnerable to these effects. Consequently, the aim of the first set of algorithms is to be insensitive to this kind of normal variation but sensitive to any abnormal changes The sensitivity at which the arrhythmia recognition algorithms should be set is a problem. High sensitivity of the system will be connected with numerous false positive alarms because of false ST monitoring alarms and muscle artifact simulating ventricular tachycar dia\Low sensitivity may result in misdiagnosis of the potentially life threatening conditions Furthermore ECG monitoring does not supply sufficient information necessary to evaluate the cardiac function as a pump It might limit preventive and diagnostic use of Heartronic especially in patients with heart failure There are almost no published trials con cern i ng cardia c  remote monitoring so it is difficult to develop an algorithm supported by published research BIOMED TEL The algorithm developed on the data concentrator \(second 
 


layer\ the cardiac rhythm by detecting the R wave and after that the R-R intervals from ECG signal. A similar operation is realized for SpO2 signal and the result obtained is compared with the first one. This represents a first verification of the accuracy of the acquired data. A second verification consists in analysis of the signal provided by the vibration sensor The validation is based on the initial calibration values for the Z axis of the sensor used to detect the orthostatic position of the patient during the ECG signal acquisition. On the third layer of the system the trend of the main parameters \(SpO 2 values, cardiac rate, blood pressure and glucoses concentration is determined. The parameters are correlated using a decision table based on a fuzzy set with above mentioned data. Before home usage of the remote patient monitor, the patient’s specific thresholds are settled on PDHA by the physician in hospital As result of signal analysis the patient monitor will change automatically his functioning regime from normal mode, to alarm respectively to emergency mode. In the first case, the data acquired will be only once per day uploaded to the hospital server, and in case of an alarm occurs, the significant signal will be continuously transmitted to HS. In emergency situation case when more than two threshold values are overpasses, all the signals acquired from the patient will be transmitted in real time to HS. In this case the HS is able to transmit in “real-time advises of the physician to the patient in order to prevent the possible dangerous situations V C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK The development of a wearable system capable of continuously monitoring and analyzing the heart condition of patients with known risk cardiovascular diseases should allow patients to go on with a normal life, while improving its quality and increasing its expectation The goal of this collaboration is to improve the results of both projects by means of comparing methods and coming up with better solutions for the technologic challenges Heartronic project is more focused on ECG signal processing, using with a large leads number \(12\ and strong detection of arrhythmic symptoms by intelligent algorithms, comparing with BiomedTel project that is more oriented to analysis of SpO2 signal continuously monitored, and that uses only one derivation for ECG signal. As result of sensor configuration Heartronic project was oriented mo re to the detailed analysis of acquired ECG signal. In case of BiomedTel the focus is oriented to the correlation between a set of signals acquired from patient and the local signal processing is more simplified The interface between the remote unit and hospital server is almost similar for both projects and present also a similar functionality. A special remark could be done related the communication strategy adopted by BiomedTel project, where the PDHA uses a dynamic allocation of the communication channel. In this sense an energy efficient algorithm that scans and chooses the most reliable and efficient communication channel was implemented Currently the architectures of both projects presented in this paper are being compared for effectiveness and accuracy and the collaboration is expected to provide new methods to solve technical issues that for the challenges posed It is obvious that including new signals to be monitored and also improving the inter correlatio n between signals acquired in parallel with the development of a strong energy management strategy for all system components will make possible to assure a more safe, available and precise instrumentation that could aid the patients in the future Future developments include implementation of such methods on both systems and field tests to assess the improvements A CKNOWLEDGMENT The authors gratefully acknowledge the collaboration of the other partners in the Heartron ic project: ACTA Service \(IT ESAPROJEKT \(PL\, I2M Design \(E\T-Connect \(I\nvePL\, University of Oulu \(FIN Camillo Hospital \(I This research was supported by Romanian Ministry of Education and Research in the frame of PN II BIOMED TEL D11057/2007 national program. The authors want to thank all the collaborators involved in this project from “Transilvania” University of Brasov, Technical University Cluj Napoca and Politehnica” University Timisoara R EFERENCES 1 I EEE sta n d a r d f o r a p p l ica t io n a n d m a n a g e me n t o f th e sy ste m s e n g i n e e r ing process, IEEE Std 1220-1998, Vol., Iss., 22 Jan 1999 2 I EEE g u id e f o r in f o r m a t io n te c h n o l o g y s y s te m d e f i n i t i o n C o n ce p t o f  Operations \(ConOps\ document, IEEE Std 1362-1998, Vol., Iss., 19 Mar 1998 3 R ic har d s o n P   McK e nna W  Br is to w M et al Report of the 1995 World Health Organization/International Society and Federation of Cardiology Task Force on the Definition and Classification of cardiomyopathies news Cir c ul at io n  1 9 96 93 8 4 1  2 4 S huF e n W ung P h D  RN an d Bar b ar a D r ew P h D  RN Co m p ar iso n o f  18-Lead ECG and Selected Body Surface Potential Mapping Leads in Determining Maximally Deviated ST Lead and Efficacy in Detecting Acute Myocardial Ischemia During Coronary Occlusion, Journal of Electrocardiology Vol. 32 Supplement 1999, 30-37 5 D r e w BJ, S c he i n m a n M M  Ev a n s G T Jr Co m p ar iso n o f a v e cto r car di o graphically derived 12-lead electrocardiogram with the conventional electrocardiogram during wide QRS complex tachycardia, and its potential application for continuous bedside monitoring. Am J Cardiol.1992;69:612 618 6 D r e w BJ A d am s MG P e l t e r MM, W ung S F Cal d w e l l M A Co m p ar iso n  of standard and derived 12-lead electrocardiograms for diagnosis of coronary angioplastyinduced myocardial ischemia. Am J Cardiol 1997;79:639–644.Am Heart J. 2002;144:769 –781 7 D r e w BJ, P e l t e r MM, W ung S F  A d am s MG T a y l o r C, Ev ans G T Jr  Foster E. Accuracy of the EASI 12-lead electrocardiogram compared to the standard 12-lead electrocardiogram for diagnosing multiple cardiac abnormalities. J Electrocardiol 1999;32:38–47 8 E F R A N K   A n accur a te cl i n ic al ly pr act ic al sy ste m f o r spatial v e cto r car diography, circulation, 13 : 737 749, \(1956 9 G DO W E R  A l e ad sy n t h e si z e r f o r t h e F r an k sy st e m t o si mu l a t e t h e  standard 12-lead ECG, Journal of Electrocardiology, 1: 101 116, \(1968 10 H  G L A E S E R, L  J  T H O M A S  1 9 7 5 Co m p ute r m o ni to r i ng  in pa tie nt  care Annual Review of Biophysics and Bioengineering 4. pp. 449 476  Chao-Hung Lin, Shuenn-Tsong Young, Te-Son Kuo A remote data access architecture for home-monitoring health-care applications Medical Engineering & Physics  Volume 29, Issue 2  March 2007  Pages 199204  Sweta Sneha Upkar Varshney Enabling ubiquitous patient monitoring Model, decision protocols, opportunities and challenges Decision Support Systems  Volume 46, Issue 3  February 2009  Pages 606-619 
 


 Pietro Valdastri, Stefano Rossi, Arianna Menciassi, Vincenzo Lionetti Fabio Bernini, Fabio A. Recchia, Paolo Dario An implantable ZigBee ready telemetric platform for in vivo monitoring of physiological parameters Sensors and Actuators A: Physical  Volume 142, Issue 1  10 March 2008  Pages 369-378  P. Borza, A. M Puscas, M. Carp, A. Stavar, Patient Remote Monitoring of Biophysical and Biochemical Signals International Symposium for Design and Technology of Electronic Packages 14 th Edition pp.222-226  A. Stavar, P. Borza, M. Carp, A.M. Puscas, Pulse Oximetry, a Method of Monitoring Heart Disease Patients International Symposium for Design and Technology of Electronic Packages 14 th Edition pp.232-236  V. Rocha, R. Seromenho, J. Correia, A. Mascioletti, A. Picano, G. Gonçalves, "Wearable computing for patients with coronary diseases", IEEETTTC International Conference on Automation, Quality & Testing, Robotics AQTR 2008 \(THETA 16\, 22-25 of May of 2008 Cluj-Napoca Romania, to be included in the IEEE Xplore database and published in ISI Proceedings Best Paper Presented in Quality of Life and e-Health Sessions 17 V  Ro c h a R  S e r o m e nho J   Co r r e ia A  Mas c io l e tti, A  P i c a no  G  G o ncalves. "Wearable Computing for Patients with Coronary Diseases", Control Engineering and Applied Informatics, Vol. 10, No 2 \(2008\, pp 1017 18 R. S e r o m e nho G   G o nçal v e s, J. Co r r e i a, V  Ro c h a   S iste m a i n te l i g e nte  integrado em vestuário para pacientes com doenças coronárias”, Informática de Saúde boas práticas e novas perspectivas, Edições Universidade Fernando Pessoa, 2008 19 A  P u 012\015 Monitoring System for Biophisical and Biochemical Parameters in Ambulatory Treatment  2008 IEEE International Conference on Automation, Quality and Testing, Robotics AQTR 2008 THETA 16 th edition Cluj-Napoca, Romania,2008 
 


  10 225  Allocates and manages onboard computational resources for all engineering and science processing needs 225  Performs memory management of command sequences and science data 225  Executes command receipt verification and validation 225  Performs self-test 225  Gathers and reports health/safety status at the subsystem and flight system level 225  Hosts onboard autonomy necessary to recover the flight system from anomalies encountered during all phases of the mission The flight software inherits from the Multi-Mission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP\, which provides portions of the Computer Data System CDS\ms Services Fault, as well as Payload Accommodation. Minimal effort is assumed for the adaptation of these specific MSAP components for this missi on, and efforts will be concentrated on re-testing these mechanisms. It is assumed that the flight software is only responsible for the high-level control of the flight components, with no role in the software components for the individual instruments. There are no data analysis components onboard, and the data is only stored and sent back. All implementations of the flight software are done in-house and fully co-located. The estimated development time is 71.1 work-years, an equivalent of 210.3k lines of code Telecommunication The telecommunication subsystem requires two-way X Band communications throughout the mission. The requirements for downlink data rates using the 34-meter Deep Space Network depend on the separation between the spacecraft and Earth and are listed in Table 4 Distance between the spacecraft and Earth Downlink data rate 3.66 AU 75 kbps 4.5 AU 50 kbps 6.4 AU 25 kbps  Table 4 Requirements for downlink data rates  The command bit error rate \(BER\ired to be 1e-5 and the telemetry frame error rate \(FER\required to be 1e-4 A minimum link margin of 3 db is required in the communication links The pointing error depends on the beamwidth of the antenna and assumes the pointing loss to be less than 1 dB. The high gain antenna \(HGA\is pointed within 0.2 degrees, the medium gain antenna \(MGA\inted within 10 degrees and the low gain antenna \(LGA\inted within 45 degrees.  The design assumes an error correcting 1/6 turbo code with 8920 bit frames for high rate links, and an error correcting 1/6 turbo code with 1784 bit frames for low data rate links The subsystem is a fully redundant X-Band deep space system.  It contains two sm all deep space transponders SDST\or X-Band uplink and downlink \(with single redundancy\There are two traveling wave tube amplifiers TWTA\, each outputting 30 W.  The X-Band high gain antenna is 3-meter parabolic dish with a single axis gimbal and has a gain of 45 db. A medium gain horn with a half power beamwidth \(HPBW\of 20 degrees, and two low gain antennas with a combined HPBW of 90 degrees are operated during safe mode.  The horn and the omni antennas operate at 10 kbps with the 70 meter DSN dish in safe mode. The system has two diplexers which allow the use of a single antenna for both uplink and downlink. The hybrid splits/ combines the signals while the Waveguide Transfer Switch \(WGTS\nd the Coax Switch \(CXS\required for switching the antennas. The total estimated mass of the telecommunication subsystem is 51.3 kg, with a peak transmit power of 64 W and a minimum \(receiver on\r of 12 W 6. Work Breakdown and Costs Costs  The total cost of the mission is estimated to be $622.8 M under the $650 M limit specified by the New Frontiers AO A breakdown of the costs, detailing developmental, payload flight, and operations is given in the subsequent sections  Summary  The launch vehicle, an Atlas V 531, is provided through the AO and does not contribute cost to this mission proposal The overall cost summary is presented in Table 5  Launch Vehicle 0.0 M Development Cost \(30 520.0 M Phase A 2.0 M Phase B 46.8 M Phase C/D 471.2 M Operations Cost \(15 102.7 M Project Cost 622.8 M  Table 5 Overall Cost Summary  Development Cost \(Phase A-D  Developmental cost of our sp acecraft takes the majority of our budget with the flight system being most expensive. The costs are summarized in Table 6 


  11    Project Management 17.2 M Project Systems Engineering 16.9 M Mission Assurance 15.0 M Science $11.3 M Payload System 65.9 M Flight System 211.3 M Mission Operations Preparation 16.8 M Ground Data Systems 14.9 M ATLO $19.4 M Education and Public Outreach 1.2 M Mission and Navigation Design 10.0 M Development Reserves \(30 119.9 M Total 520.0 M  Table 6 Development Cost for Phases A-D  Payload Systems Cost  The cost of the payload system is primarily the instrumentation needed to ach ieve the science objectives and ends up being a relatively small fraction of the total cost, as presented in Table 7     High Resolution Multispectral Imager 20.4 M Thermal IR Spectrometer 12.0 M Dust Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometer 26.8 M UV Imaging Spectrograph 6.0 M Impactor capsules \(2 0.7 M Total 69.5 M  Table 7 Payload and Instrumentation Cost  Additional science instruments include Radio Science and Wide Angle Camera - not included in instrument cost calculation  Flight Systems Cost  The flight system, including th e entire spacecraft bus, is a significant fraction of our total budget as summarized in Table 8    Power $40.0 M C&DH $13.8 M Telecom $19.0 M Structures \(includes Mech. I&T 24.3 M Thermal $9.9 M Propulsion $20.1 M ACS $32.5 M Harness $2.1 M S/C Software 21.5 M Total 183.2 M  Table 8 Flight System Cost Summary  Operations Cost \(Phase E-F  Operation costs, including data analysis, is provided in Table 9       Project Management 9.1 M Project Systems Engineering 0.0 M Mission Assurance 0.5 M Science $19.8 M Mission Operations 51.1 M Ground Data Systems 7.6 M Education and Public Outreach 3.7 M Total \(15 91.8 M 


  12  Table 9 Operation Costs  7. Conclusions The SHOTPUT mission , its unique trajectory and potential encounter with six different small bodies will provide a novel view of the composition of the solar system. The science return from the mission will help answer questions on formation, composition and evolution of small bodies in our local neighborhood In addition, the team has proposed a mission that is within budget based on heritage instruments satisfying the decadal survey requirements. The opportunity for spectacular science return on this rare trajectory should not be missed The innovative SHOTPUT mission is truly one of a kind Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank Anita Sohus, Amber Norton and JPL Team X for their contributions to this work. Parts of this research were carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References 1 o mmit t ee o n New Op po rtu n ities in  So lar System  Exploration: An Evaluation of the New Frontiers Announcement of Opportunity, \224 Opening New Frontiers in Space: Choices for the Next New Frontiers Announcement of Opportunity,\224 National Research Council, 2008   Exploration Survey, Space Studies Boa r d Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences, \223New Frontiers in the Solar System 224 National Research Council National Academies Press, 2003  3 A. M o rb id elli, H. F. Lev i so n, K. Tsiganis and R. Gomes 223Chaotic capture of Jupiter\222s Trojan asteroids in the early Solar System,\224 Nature vol 435, pp 462-465, 26 May 2005   C h e n g, \223Near Eart h As teroid Rendezvous: Mission Overview,\224 Space Sciences Revi ew, vol. 82, pp 3-29, 1997   M A Bar u cci, D P Cr uikshank S Mot t ola, M Lazzarin, \223Physical Properties of Trojan and Centaur Asteroids,\224 Asteroids III, pp 273-287, 2003  6  W.M. Grundy, J.A. Stansberry, K.S. Noll, D.C Stephens, D.E. Trilling, S.D Kern, J.R. Spencer,, D.P Cruikshanf, H.F. Levison  223The orbit, mass, size, albedo and density of \(65489\/Phorcys: A tidally-evolved binary Centaur,\224 Icaraus, vol. 191, pp 286-297, 2007    D.P C r ui ks han k et al  223C onst r ai nt s o n t h e C o m posi t i on of Trojan Asteroid 624 Hektor,\224 Icarus vol. 153, Oct. 2001 pp. 348-360   J H o rne r et al 223C onst r ai n t s fr om deut eri u m on t h e  formation of icy bodies in the Jovian system and beyond,\224 Planetary and Space Science vol. 56, Nov. 2008, pp. 15851595   M F  A\222 He arn M J S. Bel t on A  Delam e re, a n d W H Blume. Deep Impact: A Large-Scale Active Experiment on a Cometary Nucleus. Space Science Reviews, 117\(1 1\22621, 2005  10 Y.G. Fern\341n d e z, S.S. Sh eppard, and D.C. Jewitt.  The Albedo Distribution of Jovian Trojan Asteroids.  The Astronomical Journal, vol. 126, Sep. 2003, pp. 1563-1574  1 F. M a rza ri and H Sch o l l C a pt ure o f Tro j a n s by  a Growing Proto-Jupiter.  Icarus, vol. 131, Jan. 1998, pp. 4151  1 F. M a rc hi s et al S 20 06 6 24  1.  I A U C i rc., 8 7 3 2 1  2006  1 Ti scare n o M S an d R  M a l hot ra T h e Dy nam i cs o f  Known Centaurs.  The Astronomical Journal, vol. 126, Dec 2003, pp. 3122-3131   i A. et al. Sour ce regions and time scales for the delivery of water to Earth. Meteoritics & Planetary Science, vol. 35, Nov. 2000, pp. 1309-1320             


  13 B IOGRAPHY  JPL Planetary Science Summer Sc hool August 2008 class   Figure 9 SHOTPUT Mission Design Team   


  14  
 


Available Array Energy 60297 W-hr Battery Recharge Energy Losses 93 W-hr Shunt Energy Losses 20% Battery W-hr 187 W-hr Remaining Electrical Energy 60017 W-hr Power Conversion Losses 80% Efficiency 12003 W-hr Harness Losses \(4 Available Diurnal Load Energy \(CBE Average Load Energy Supported 67.9 W Array Area 0.20 m2 12 specifically the seismometer and magnetometer continuously while other instruments such as the heat flow probes may operate intermittently. The retroreflector does not require any thermal control resources. Telecom between the Earth and the hub or from the remote units to the hub would be during the lunar day only  Description of the Design  A thermal blanket \(MLI Silver-Teflon would be used to moderate the temperature variation of the surface. The MLI and the lunar material thermal conduction properties could be used to insulate the different ALGEP elements from the external environment  The Mars Exploration Rover thermal switch and a thermal radiator with thermal louvers would be used to reject the internally generated thermal energy. The MER Thermal Switch has the ability to transfer up to 11 W. For the hub three or four switches may be necessary, depending on the RF power output  Potentially a small electric heater/thermostat system may be needed \(on the order of 10% of the dissipated electrical energy example, the seismometer, which dissipates 1.5 W, may need a 0.15 W heater. A detailed thermal analysis would be necessary to further assess this need  The ALGEP hardware location would be dictated by the science requirements. Each ALGEP element could be either positioned on the surface or buried.  An example of a buried element would be the seismometer, while the hub could be surface mounted. In either case a surface blanket would be required. The surface blanket would minimize the lunar temperature variation, from a range of -173 to ~127  C to a range under the blanked between approximately -73 to 27  C. Initial calculations indicate that the blanket extending about 0.5 m beyond the edge of the instrument or hub would provide the temperature control of the lunar surface required to minimize the temperature variation. For the lunar night, a small electric heater may be needed to keep the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits  For polar region operation it is assumed that the ALGEP could operate at all times as the solar arrays would always have incident solar energy and could provide electrical power for operations.  Thus with electrical power for the instruments and hub, the thermal radiator and louvers could maintain the ALGEP hardware within specified temperature limits. Initial calculations indicate that the current conceptual thermal control design does not require electric heaters for this location  Design Rationale  The design uses MLI, thermal conduction control, electric heaters, thermal radiators thermal louvers, and a deployed surface blanket to provide thermal control to maintain the remote units and hub within specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would 


specified temperature limits. The surface blanket would minimize the temperature variation of the surface, and electric heaters would provide makeup thermal energy  Risk  The thermal subsystem design is a low to moderate risk element, as the hardware used has extensive flight experience. Although this system would be on the surface of the Moon, the environment would be space-like, with the  Figure 6  ALGEP avionics block diagram showing the power and command and data handing  interface. This is a low-power design to enable data collection during lunar night at the remote units. The hub  contains the same avionics package but does not interface with an instrument  13 exception of the infrared heating of the lunar surface therefore the space qualified thermal control hardware could provide thermal control for this mission  Command and Data Handling Subsystem Design Requirements  The ALGEP controller is designed to meet the six year mission lifetime requirement stemming from the science objectives flowing down to the mission requirements and has a technology cutoff of 2016 \(assumes a 2020 launch interface to the science instrument and the UHF radio.  The controller for the hub interfaces to the UHF and S-band radios. Each type of controller would be single string  Design Assumptions  All selected electronic parts for the controller have a path to flight hardware with a technology cutoff of 2016. There would be one ALGEP hub that has a bi-directional S-band link to Earth and a UHF receiver link to the remote instrument units. There would be four ALGEP remote units that have UHF transmitters to link to the ALGEP hub. The controllers would have an operating temperature range: -20  C to 35  C. The total ionizing dose of radiation would be 2 krads for the mission  Description of the Design  Both controller designs would incorporate low-powered Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs devices and I/O drivers.  Portions of the existing MultiMission System Architecture Platform \(MSAP Engineering Unit \(REU IP provide the mission clock and alarm clock logic.  Both the hub and remote unit controllers would capture engineering data regarding temperatures, currents and voltages. Figure 6 provides an overview of the command and data handling and power subsystem architectures.  The remote units would be supplied with 2 Gb of memory and the hub would have 5 Gb of memory  Design Rationale  A low-powered avionics architecture would be achieved by developing a stand-alone controller capable of operating at various power levels. In the lowest power configuration only the mission clock and alarm clock logic would be active. Other logic, analog and I/O functions would be power strobed in the off mode during this very low-power mode. Science and engineering data would be stored in non-volatile memory elements that retain their data in the power-off mode  Risk  The controller requires engineering development to obtain the low-powered mode required for night operation However, it has been designed to incorporate components with flight heritage. A lower frequency oscillator would be used to reduce power  Telecom Subsystem 


Design Requirements  The telecom subsystem is designed to return 3.4 Gb of stored data every 16 days during lunar night in addition to 1.2 Gb of additional data collected each 24 hour period during daylight. This translates into a minimum direct-to-Earth return data rate of ~50 kbps for an 8 hour pass each Earth day for 16 days of sunlight. The subsystem must operate down to a temperature of -20  C and survive non-operational temperature of -50  C. The telecom subsystem would support two-way communications between the hub and the DSN network. It would also support two-way communications between the hub and each of the remote instrument packages on the surface. There would be a minimum 3 dB margin for the direct-to-Earth DTE  Design Assumptions  The telecom subsystem is assumed to be a single string design. The hub would have an S-band radio and antenna for two-way communications with a DSN 34 m ground station. The nominal downlink rate would be 120 kbps and the uplink rate would be 2 kbps. The surface links would be at UHF. The forward link data rate would be 8 kbps and the return rate would be 256 kbps. The maximum range for the surface links would be 100 m. All of the surface links would have line-of-sight between the units. It is assumed that the astronauts would point the Sband antenna towards Earth, within 5  of the center of Earth. This should be relatively easy to do as 5  is a very loose pointing requirement and the uplink/downlink would be marginally affected if the pointing is off by a little more than 5  A signal could be added which would use an uplink from the Earth to give a relative signal power to ensure the pointing requirement is met  Description of the Design  The telecom subsystem would use a commercial off-the-shelf S-band transponder \(L3 CXS-610 has a 5 W power amplifier and an S-band diplexer included This radio is used on GRAIL and a similar unit was used on Genesis. The diplexer would be connected to an S-band low gain antenna \(LGA be a 2-element S-band patch array with a boresight gain of 9 dB. It would be mounted on the end of one solar array on the hub and gimbaled to allow the astronaut to point it to the Earth  The hub communicates with each of the remote instrument units in UHF using a new UHF micro-transceiver. Each UHF microtransceiver would have a radio frequency output power of 50 mW. The UHF transceiver would use a halfduplex system meaning it would transmit and then listen However, it cannot do both at the same time. The UHF links would use a simple UHF monopole antenna, similar to the antennas flown on MER, and mounted on the top of the hub and remote units. The hub could only communicate with one remote unit at a time. Figure 7 shows the hub and remote unit telecom block diagrams  The S-Band telemetry link has a margin of 7.0 dB for a telemetry rate of 120 kbps into a 34 m beam waveguide ground station. The data rate could be increased to reduce 14 playback time. The surface link would have a margin exceeding 20 dB for a return data rate of 256 kbps. This includes a multipath loss allotment of 20 dB. The margin would be large because the range would be so small and all of the links would be line of sight  Design Rationale  Where available, the design of this subsystem uses heritage hardware. The UHF microtransceiver is a radio that is under development for the Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, low 


Mars program. It would be designed for low mass, lowpower and low temperature operation. The S-band antenna would be a smaller, simpler version of the antenna that flew on Deep Impact. Other antenna options would be available The UHF antennas have been flown on previous Mars lander/rover missions. There would be other alternatives for the S-band antenna and the UHF transceiver on the hub could use a larger power amplifier to talk to an orbiting asset as a backup to the S-band radio  Risk  The highest risk items for telecom would be the single string design for each element and six year design lifetime. However, the S-band radio has flight heritage. The UHF radios would be a new design but do not require new technology. They would be an engineering development 8. SYSTEM SUMMARY Mass Equipment List Table 5 shows a summary of the mass and power for each of the subsystems for the remote instrument units. The mass of one remote unit without the specified instrument is 26.6 kg with contingency specified at the subsystem level based on heritage. Table 6 shows a summary of mass and power by subsystem for the hub. The mass of the hub with contingency is 44.9 kg. Table 7 shows a mass summary for the entire package with appropriate contingencies added per the JPL  s Flight Project Practices and Design Principles Design Principles. The package totals 218.2 kg which includes four remote units, five instruments, one hub, and the carrier container\(s Table 5. Mass and power summary for remote units Remote Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 2.0 kg 29% 2.5 kg 0 W Telecom UHF 0.2 24% 0.3 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour 3 W Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 20.6 kg 29% 26.6 kg Diplexer S-Band Downconverter STDN command data to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r S-Band Exciter 9 dBi S-Band LGA UHF Downconverter Small UHF transceiver command data to S/C CDS 


to S/C CDS Pr oc es so r UHF PA UHF Monopole Command data to C&amp;DH Command dat  to C&amp;DH  Figure 7  Telecom block diagram for the S-band \(top bottom  units would be located on the hub while the remote units only contain a UHF system 15 9. OPERATIONAL SCENARIOS Daytime Operations During the day, the remote units and hub would be fully operational. The remote units would collect data from their instruments as specified by the science team and store it in the controller memory. Table 8 shows the data volume expected from each instrument. After 24 hours have passed the UHF telecom system on the hub is used to poll each of the remote units separately at the designated interval for the stored data. The hub then transmits the data direct-to-Earth using the S-band radio. This requires a maximum of eight hours at 50 kbps each day using the DSN 34 m antennas However, data rates as high as 120 kbps may be achieved reducing the downlink time. The hub has enough memory margin to accumulate data from all the instruments for three Earth days before it must downlink the data Nighttime Operations During nighttime operations, data collection at the remote units would be taking place. The magnetometer and seismometer collect data continuously. However, the seismometer operates at a reduced mode where the sampling rate is reduced to one-half of the daytime rate which has been deemed more than adequate by the science team. The remaining instruments collect data at various intervals that would be conducive to the science team  s current requirements. Telecom events would not be scheduled during the lunar night. The data accumulates in the controller memory over 16 Earth days \(~14 days at an equatorial location would be considered a worse case so two days have been added to be conservative data volume summary for each instrument during a 16 Earth day lunar night. When the sun comes up and the hub and remote units have sufficient power to run the telecom systems the hub polls each remote unit separately at a designated interval similar to operations during the day. The data would then be transmitted to Earth gradually over the next few days using the S-band radio Table 7. Mass summary for total package Unit Mass Contingency Mass + contingency 4 Remote Units 82.4 kg 29% 106.4 kg Hub 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg Instruments including cabling 17.3 kg 30% 22.5 kg Carrier Container\(s Total with heritage contingency 153.1 kg 29% 197.5 kg  System contingency  21.4 kg 14 Total Package  43% 218.9 kg Table 8. Instrument data volumes received at the hub over one Earth day in daylight operations Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub 


Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 236 Magnetometer 58 Heat Flow Probe 2 Seismic Sounder 700 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 6 Total 1002 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 80  Table 6. Mass and power summary for hub Hub/Base Unit Mass CBE Contingency Total Power Power 14.3 kg 30% 18.5 kg 0.180 W 2 W Night /Day Thermal 13.4 kg 28% 17.2 kg 0 W Telecom UHF Telecom S-band 3.4 15% 3.9 kg 2 W 40 W CDS 0.7 kg 30% 0.9 kg 1 W \(1/60th per hour W \(day Structure 3.4 kg 30% 4.4 kg 0 W Total x 1 unit 35.2 kg 27% 44.9 kg 2.38 W avg at night  16 10. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS The ALGEP modular design builds upon lessons learned from Apollo era ALSEP package and technology advances since that time. ALGEP meets the requirements of long lifetime survival while maintaining continuous operation of its instruments during the lunar night which can last up to 16 days at equatorial regions on the Moon. The package would be powered using solar arrays and batteries alone not requiring nuclear sources to supply power or maintain thermal control. This concept is feasible due to its lowpower operational mode at night The modular design and packaging scheme provides flexibility in deployment across all regions of the Moon including the farside pending the availability of an orbital communications asset. The relatively light ALGEP package could be accommodated on astronaut activity support vehicles, providing a method to distribute the packages across the Moon, ultimately gaining a Moon-wide understanding of lunar geophysical properties ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This work was supported by the NASA Lunar Sortie Science Opportunities Program The work described in this publication was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration References herein to any specific commercial product process or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer 


or otherwise does not constitute or imply its endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology REFERENCES 1] NRC  Scientific Context for Exploration of the Moon   Washington D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2007 2] Apollo 11 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-214, 1969 3] Apollo 12 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-235, 1970 4] Apollo 14 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-272, 1971 5] Apollo 15 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-289, 1972 6] Apollo 16 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-315, 1972 7] Apollo 17 Prelim. Sci. Rept., NASA SP-330, 1973 8] ALSEP Termination Report, NASA RP-1036, 1979 9] NRC  New Frontiers in the Solar System: an Integrated Exploration Strategy  Decadal Survey D.C.: The Nat. Academies Press, 2003 10] International Lunar Network Science Definition Team Final Report, 2009 BIOGRAPHY Melissa Jones is a member of the technical staff in the Planetary and Lunar Mission Concepts Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  Current work includes development of small Lunar lander concepts and instrument packages to deploy on the Moon,  Report Manager for the Titan Saturn System Mission Outer Planets Flagship Mission study, and staffing various concept studies as a systems engineer on Team X, JPL  s mission design team.  Melissa graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry and a Ph.D. in Space and Planetary Science from the University of Arkansas  Linda Herrell has a BA in math/computer science/languages \(University of Texas fluids and heat transfer \(City College of New York addition to analytical work in computer science and thermal and structural analysis, she has worked as both a payload \(instrument Earth orbiting \(Hubble Space Telescope, Earth Observing System \(EOS Cassini as Proposal Manager for several NASA science missions She currently serves as the Program Architect for NASA's New Millennium Program    Table 9. Instrument data volumes generated at the hub after 16 Earth day lunar night Science Instrument Compressed Data Volume Received at Hub Mb Seismometer 1980 Magnetometer 920 Heat Flow Probe 5 Seismic Sounder 0 Instrument &amp; Hub Engineering Data 72 Total 2977 Hub Memory 5000 Margin 40  17 Bruce Banerdt has been a research geophysicist at the California Institute of Technology's Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1977, where he does research in planetary geophysics and instrument development for flight projects. He has been on science teams for numerous planetary missions 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


