Exploiting Apache Flink's Iteration Capabilities for Distributed Apriori: Community Detection Problem as an example Sanjay Rathee School of Computing and Electrical Engineering I.I.T., Mandi Himachal Pardesh, India E-Mail: sanjay_rathee@students.iitmandi.ac.in Arti Kashyap School of Computing and Electrical Engineering I.I.T., Mandi Himachal Pardesh, India E-Mail: arti@iitmandi.ac.in   Abstract Extraction of useful information from large datasets is one of the most important research problem Association rule mining is one of the best methods for this purpose. Finding possible associ ations between items in large transaction based datasets \(finding frequent patterns\ most important part of the association rule mining. There exists many algorithms to find frequent patterns but Apriori algorithm always remains a preferred choice due to its ease of implementation and natural tendency to be parallelized. Many single-machine based Apriori var iants exist but massive amount of data available these days is above capacity of a single machine Therefore, to meet the demands of this ever-growing huge data there is a need of mult iple machines based Apriori algorithm. For these type of distributed applications, mapreduce is a popular fault-tolerant  framework. Hadoop is one of the best open-source software framework with mapre duce approach for distributed storage and distributed processi ng of huge datasets using clusters built from commodity hardware. But heavy disk I/O operation at each iteration of a highly iterative algorithm like Apriori makes hadoop inefficient A number of map reduce ba sed platforms are being developed for parallel computing in recent years. Among them two platforms, namely, Spark and Flink have attracted lot of attention because of their inbuilt support to distributed computations. Earlier we had proposed a reduced- Apriori algorithm on Spark platform which outperforms parallel Apriori, firstly because of use of Spark and secondly because of the improvement we proposed in standard Apriori. Therefore present work is a natural sequel of our earlier work and targets on implementing, testing and benchmarking Apriori on Apache Flink and compares it with Spark implementation.   We conduct in-depth experiments to gain insight into the effectiveness efficiency and scalability of the Apriori algorithm on Flink. We also use community detection gr aph mining problem as a test case to demonstrate our implementations Keywordsó Apriori; Apache Flink; Mapreduce; Spark Hadoop; R-Apriori; Frequent itemset mining I  I NTRODUCTION  Data mining techniques like clustering, classification association rule mining etc. are used to extract the useful information from large datasets. Association rule mining is one of the most important technique to mine useful information from large datasets. It is used to find interesting relations among various variables in large datasets. To create association rules, first we have to find frequent patterns in datasets, which makes frequent itemset mining the base process for association rule mining Association rule mining has many applications in various field of our life. Historically, it was used in market basket analysis to find relations between various products.  We can find products which are sold together frequently and these relations can be used to make a better business plans to arrange and sell the products Association rules can be very useful in graph mining techniques like community detection. Communities in a graph can be detected by finding most frequent paths occurring in a graph. A clique of required length will represent a community in graph and association rules techniques can find these cliques quite easily. Association rules can also be used for crime detection and prevention[21 We can a n alyze large  datasets of crime events happened in various cities or states and find out frequent patterns occurring in those events. These frequent patterns can be used to predict the most crime sensitive areas or persons involved in the most crimes. Cyber security is another importan t application of association rule mining  L a rge datasets havi ng i n f o rm ation about va rious attacks by various ports and IP addresses can be analyzed to find frequent addresses or ports which are most sensitive to attacks. This information can be used to block requests from these vulnerable addresses or ports In recent years, association rules are widely used for crowd mining[24  Crow d m i ning is a pr oc ess of extract ing information from a huge dataset which contains answers for various questions asked to the crowd. Based on the answers given by crowd for particular questions, we can find patterns in those answers and predict behavior of the crowd. This useful information can be used to make business strategies so that high benefits can be earned from the crowd available in that area For association rule mining various algorithms like Apriori, …clat, FP-Growth are proposed. Most of the algorithms scan dataset to find out frequent patterns, which 2016 Intl. Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics \(ICACCI 978-1-5090-2029-4/16/$31.00 @2016 IEEE 739 


can be used for rule generation. Apriori algorithm, firstly purposed by R. Agarwal et al  on a t h eorem that an itemset can be frequent only if its all nonempty subsets are also frequent. It uses an iterative approach where results of last iterations are used to find current iteration frequent itemset. It starts with finding singleton frequent items where an item occurring more than minimum support count is called frequent. Then K-frequent itemsets are found using K-1 frequent itemsets based on the Apriori approach. After finding singleton frequent items, candidate set is generated. Candidate set for K th iteration has all K size combination of items whose all subsets are frequent in K-1 iteration. To find K-frequent itemsets, we have to check only itemsets whose all subsets are present in K-1 frequent itemsets. Now these frequent itemsets of K iteration are used for generation of K+1 phase candidate set and it iterates until all the frequent patterns are found Apriori algorithm has some limitations, candidate set for 2 nd  phase is too huge if number of items is large and we have to scan dataset again and again for every iteration. An algorithm  was  pu r pose d to tackle this  pr obl em of m a ny sc ans  of datasets. …clat algorithm uses horizontal approach. A new list is created where every row contains two columns, 1 st  column for item and 2 nd for all the transactions containing that item. Now singleton frequent items are found by counting number of transactions for that item in 2 nd column. After creating candidate set for K iteration, intersection of 2 nd  columns for all items in itemset can be used to find support of an itemset. Therefore, there is no requirement to scan dataset again and again for every iteration. There is only one scan of dataset in Eclat algorithm which ma kes it faster than Apriori algorithm, but still there is a limitation of huge candidate set for 2 nd phase if number of items are huge. To resolve huge candidate set problem FP-growth[8 algori thm was purpose d  by J. Han et al. In FP-Growth algorithm candidate generation step is removed. Initially singl eton frequent itemset are found and a FP-Tree is created. This FP-Tree is used to find out frequent patterns of all size. This algorithm is faster as compared to Apriori because it removes candidate generation step All the basic algorithms work on sequential approach and they were efficient until size of the dataset were small. As the size of datasets started increasing, their efficiency starts decreasing. Therefore to handle large datasets, parallel algorithms are introduc Many cluster-based algorithms were capable of handling large datasets but they were complex and have many issues like synchronization, replication of data etc. Therefore parallel approach is replaced by MapReduce approach. MapReduce approach makes association rule mining process very fast because algorithms like Apriori have possibilities of high parallelism. Key-value pairs can be easily generated in case of Apriori algorithm. Many Mapreduce based implementations of Apriori Algorithm[13, 12 were  proposed which shows a high performance gain as compared to the conventional Apriori algorithm. Hadoop[2 o n e of th e best platforms to implement Apriori algorithm as a Mapreduce model. But still there are so me limitations in Hadoop based implementation of Apriori algorithm. On Hadoop platform results are stored to HDFS after every iteration and input is taken from HDFS for next iteration, which decreases the performance due to input-output time. But Spar  platf o rm  tackle these problems by using its RDD architecture, which store results at the end of an iteration and provide them for next iteration. Apriori implementation on spark platform gives many times faster results on standard datasets which makes spark platform best for implem entation of Apriori algorithm to mine frequent patterns and generate association rules later Recently, Qiu ve re porte d 18 ti mes speedup on an average for various benchmarks for the yet another frequent itemset mining \(YAFIM\ algorithm based on Spark RDD framework. Their results with real world data for medical application is observed to be many times faster than MapReduce framework. Apache Spark also have a limitation that new iteration can be started only when all results of earlier iterations are produced. Apache F link tackles this problem by using pipelining architecture, that is, a new iteration can be started as soon as partial results are available. This pipelining architecture of apache Flink sparked interest in us to implement Apriori algorithm and our R-Apriori which already is faster than standard Apriori on Spark  for Flink  The paper is organized as fo llows. After introducing the subject and the motivation in Section I, earlier work about frequent itemset mining, mainly Apriori algorithm is reported in Section II. Section III introduces the Flink based Apriori algorithm in details. Section IV evaluate the performance of FApriori. Section V shows the use of Flink based Apriori algorithm for community detecti on and section VI concludes the paper II  E ARLIER W ORK  Apriori algorithm by R. Agarwal et al the m o s t  popular and effective algorith m for association rule mining based on a theorem that any itemset can be frequent only if all its non-empty subsets are frequent. This theorem reduces a lot of computation overhead to find frequent itemsets in transactional data. Many improved version of Apriori are proposed by many researchers. All these conventional and improved Apriori algorithms were capable of handling datasets of limited size. As the size of datas ets grows, these algorithms were not so efficient. Therefore, mapreduce based parallel implementations of Apriori were proposed to handle such huge datasets. A mapreduce based parallel implementation of Apriori algorithm \(MR-Apriori\wa s proposed by Ning Li et  y evaluated the size up, scale up and spee d up performance of parallel Apriori to prove that their algorithm can handle huge dataset efficiently. A new mapreduce based Apriori algorithm with better pruning technique, called IMRApriori,  is proposed by Za  They claimed that their algorithm is more time efficient than MRApriori algorithm due to better pruning technique. They use their algorithm to find freque nt itemsets from huge social network datasets. Another improved mapreduce based Apriori algorithm, c  some coding improvements over earlier mapreduce based algorithms. They found that their algorithm outperform conventional MR-Apriori algorithm for book recommendation service model. Many cloud computing and cluster based Apriori algorithms also proposed Ling juan Li et al. proposed an efficient and faster Apri ori implementation using cloud computing in 2011. All these mapreduce based Apriori 2016 Intl. Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics \(ICACCI 740 


implementation have nearly same speed and efficiency like MR-Apriori. All of these have a limitation of high I/O operations time because dataset is loaded from hadoop distributed file system \(HDFS\teration and then stored back to HDFS after completion of iteration. A mapreduce based implementation of Apriori algorithm on Spark platform\(YAFIM\jian Qiu et tackled the problem of high I/O operations time because Spark use RDD's to store results between various iterations of Apriori Therefore, YAFIM outperforms MR-Apriori algorithm by many times. Spark also have a limitation that next iteration cannot  be started until current iteration is completed. Apache  support iterative co mputations natively and Apriori is highly iterative algorithm. Ther efore, Flink's native support for iterative computation sparked an interest in us to test performance of  Apriori on flink and compare it with Spark implementation  Fig 1.  Apache Flink Iteration Suppo A  Apache Flink Apache flink is one of the best open source platforms for scalable batch, distributed and stream data processing. Its core is a streaming dataflow engine which provides data distribution, dist ributed computation, co mmunication and fault tolerance for distributed computa tions over large data streams Its pipelined architecture make it to support iterative computations natively. It supports iterative computations natively because 1\im e is well aware of iterative execution 2\no scheduling overhead between iterations 3\state maintenance and caching are handled automatically. Flink uses simple and delta iterations for iterative computations. Delta iteration\(Figure2\dup iterative computations many time faster as compared to classical iterative computing.\(Figure 1  Fig 2.  Apache Fli III  A PRIORI ON F LINK  Apriori uses an iterative approach where results of earlier iteration are used to find freque nt itemset for next iteration Apriori works on a theorem that an itemset can be frequent only if all its non-empty subsets are frequent. Therefore itemset frequent for current iterations are used to generate candidate set for next iterations. Candidate itemset are validated as frequent or infreque nt. Frequent itemset are those having occurrences more than minimum support. In next step these frequent itemsets are used to generate candidate set for next iteration. Same procedure is repeated until there is no frequent itemset found. Therefore, Apriori is called as highly iterative algorithm. Apache Flink support iterations natively and hence provides highly parallel environment for Apriori Flink implement Apriori in two phases. 1 st phase generates all singleton frequent items. 2 nd phase use iteration function of flink. It iterates until size of output\( frequent itemsets Every iteration generates frequent itemsets of length k. Both phases of Apriori are following   Figure3. Phase 1 of Flink based Apriori Algorithm 2016 Intl. Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics \(ICACCI 741 


A  Phase1 Phase 1 of F-Apriori produce all singleton frequent items Data from hadoop distributed file system is taken as input and distributed to various mappers. Each mapper produce a <key value> pair for every item in transaction where item is key Reducer combines all values for a key and produce total count for every key. If value for a key is more than minimum support then item is frequent otherwise infrequent   Transactions In p ut File  Items Item, 1  Item, Count   flatmap\(_.split\(ì\\n flatmap\(_.split map\(item=>\(item,1 reduceByKey\(_+_  Fig 4.Apriori on Flink Phase1 lineage Graph.[20 All the frequent items are stored on flink cache to make a candidate set for 2nd phase. Figure 4 shows lineage graph for phase 1 of Apriori on Flink. Figure 3 represents the mapreduce based model for phase 1 B  Phase 2 Second  phase uses iter ative computation. Each iteration consists of candidate generation and mapper and reducer operations. First of all, a candidate set is generated from singleton frequent items using flink's join operation flatMap\(_.findItemsetinHashTree Itemset, Count Candidate-se t  Transactions Itemsets  Itemset  1    Itemset  Count   HashTree flatMap\(_.getCandidateItemset collect\(\ldHashTree map\(itemset=>\(Itemset,1 reduceByKey\(_+_ Final Results Partial results Singleton Frequent  Fig 5.  Apriori on Flink Phase 2 lineage Graph  Fig 6. Phase 2 of Flink based Apriori Algorithm Singleton frequent items are stored in flink cache so join operation will be very fast. Dataset from hadoop distributed file system and candidate set from flink cache is given as input to every mapper. Every mapper checks the presence of every itemset in candidate set in gi ven transactions and produces itemset, 1> as output if item set is present in transaction Reducer combines all values for every itemset and produce total count for every itemset. If value for an itemset is more than minimum support then th ese itemset are again sent for generating candidate set for ne xt iteration until given number 2016 Intl. Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics \(ICACCI 742 


of iteration are completed. Fina l results are produced when number of required iterations are complete or there is no frequent itemset for an iteration. Figure 5 shows lineage graph for phase 2 of Apriori on Flink. Figure 6 shows processing model of Flink for Apriori algorithm IV  P ERFORMANCE E VALUATION  In this section, we present  performance evaluation of Apriori on Flink in comparison to other MR-Apriori implementations on Hadoop\(MR-Apriori   M o s t o f the  MapReduce implementation of Apriori on Hadoop nearly give the same performance as each of them reads data from HDFS and after each iteration write it back. In our experiments many benchmark datasets were used. All experiments were executed four times and average results were taken as final result. F-Apriori was implemented on Flink-0.9.1 and MRApriori was implemented on Hadoop-2.0. All datasets are available on same HDFS cluster. All experiments are done on a cluster of 2 nodes each having 24 cores and 180GB memory The computing cores were all running on Centos 6 and Java-8 A  Datasets Experiments were done with four large datasets having different characteristics. First dataset was   T10I4D100K \(artificial datasets generated by IBMís data generator\ [4 whic h ha ve 10 5 transactions with 870 items in it    used for m a rket-basket m odel it contains various transactions done by customer in shopping mall   BMSWebView dat a set use d for KDD c u p 2000 competition and has average length 4.62 with 6.07 standard deviation   T25I10D10K[3 is a synthe tic dataset generated by random transaction database generator Properties of these datasets are as shown in Table 1 TABLE 1. DATASETS CHARACTERISTICS Dataset Number of Items Number of Transactions T10I4D100K 870 100,000 Retail 16470 88,163 BMSWebView2 3340 77,512 T25I10D10K 990 4,900 B  Speed Performance Analysis Performance for both algorithms with different datasets were evaluated. For all five datasets, comparison is made  with standard Apriori on Hadoop   For T10I4D100K dataset, Flink based Apriori takes only 34 seconds for 3 iterations  where Hadoop and Spark based Apriori takes 58 and 41 seconds\(Figure 7.1   For Retail , Flink based Apriori takes 11 second for 3 iterations where Spark and Hadoop based Apriori takes 20 and 22 seconds\(Figure 7.2   Flink based Apriori is nearly 2 times faster than Hadoop based Apriori for BMS web view-2 dataset with minimum support 0.3% for 3 iterations\(Figure 7.3\ . It takes 11 seconds where Spark and Hadoop based Apriori takes 15 and 20 seconds respectively   Flink based Apriori is more than 3 times faster than Hadoop based Apriori and more than 2 times faster than Spark based Apriori for T25I10D10K dataset for 3 iterations with 10% minimum support \(Figure 7.4 For every dataset, Flink base d Apriori outperform standard Apriori on Hadoop and standard Apriori on Spark. Flink based Apriori works well when minimum support is high but we observed that as minimum support decreases, Flink may crash  Fig 7.1 T10I4D100K min sup=1  Fig 7.2 Retail Dataset min sup=0.50  Fig 7.3 BMSWebView-2 Dataset min sup=0.30 2016 Intl. Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics \(ICACCI 743 


 Fig 7.4  T25I10D10K Dataset min sup=10 V  A PRIORI ON F LINK  In this section we use Apriori implementation on Flink platform to solve the commun ity detection problem. Finding communities in graph is one of the most important problems in graph mining. Size of graphs is growing too fast these days that single machine algorithms are not capable to handle such huge graph datasets. For example,  Facebook has over one million users and still growing at an impressive rate Therefore, finding communities in graph with one million nodes is not efficient with a single machine algorithm. There is a need of highly parallel dist ributed computing algorithms to handle such huge graphs   A E D C G F B  Graph 1. Social media user graph  Fig 8. \(a\tional Dataset for Graph 1 \(b\ms with total count \(c\nt items after Phase1 We used Apace Flink to provide a highly parallel computing environment for mining graph dataset for community detection. Flink support graph and iterative computing natively so it will be best for algorithm like Apriori. Finding communities in huge graphs is one of most challenging problems in graph mining. A community can be detected by finding possible c liques of various length in given graph. Apriori is one of best algo rithms to find cliques in such huge graphs. To find a clique of length n, we have to find frequent patterns of length n with minimum support n. For example, we have to find communities in graph 1 given below. We can easily make a transactional dataset for a undirected graph like Graph 1 by using its matrix representation Figure 8\(a\hows the transactional dataset for Graph 1 Every node in graph is taken as transaction ID and node with all its adjacent nodes is itemset for that node  Fig 9. \(a\ pairs after iteration 2 \(b\r iteration 3 \(c\sult after iteration 4 Apriori takes this transactio nal data as input and produces results as shown in  Figure 8\(b\er combining all occurrences of every item. Figure 8\(c\hows the singleton frequent items which have total count more than minimum support. Phase 1 of Flink based Apriori completes at Figure 8\(c  Fig 10. Using Flink based Apriori to find communities in large Dataset of BMS Candidate set is generated from singleton frequent items and total count for every itemset in candidate set is evaluated at 2nd iteration of Flink base d Apriori. Itemset having total count more than minimum support are marked as frequent figure 9\(a\Same procedure is repeated for iteration 3 and iteration 4. Figure 9\(b\and figure 9\(c\hows results for 2016 Intl. Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics \(ICACCI 744 


iteration 3 and iteration 4 respectively. From results we can easily find out different possible cliques. An itemset of size 3 is frequent only if its all three nodes having an edge between them and an itemset of size 4 will be frequent if all four nodes have an edge between each other and so on. Therefore, max cliques possible for a set of nodes can be classified as a community. For example, graph 1 have 2 communities ABCD and EFG A large dataset of BMS web n al yzed by usi n g Flink based Apriori to find communities \(Figure 10 dataset contain many months click-stream data from two famous e-commerce web sites. Each transaction of these datasets is a web session consisting of all the products detail pages viewed in that particular session. Here every product page can be seen as a node of graph and a community will represent products pages which are traversed together. Flink based Apriori takes few minutes to analyze such a huge dataset with 77,532 transactions. The 2nd iteration is one of the most time and space consum ing iteration for distributed Apriori algorithm due to generation of a huge candidate set for singletone frequent items. For example, for 10 4 frequent singletons, it will generate nearly 10 8 candidate pairs. To map such a huge number of candidate pairs for every transaction is very time consuming. To gain further insite, it will be interesting to explore more datasets  VI  C ONCLUSION  A Flink based distributed Apriori is implemented to mine frequent patterns from huge graphs and large datasets. It uses basic Apriori theorem that an itemset is frequent only if all its non-empty sunset are frequent It is implemented on Apache Flink platform which provides it highly parallel and distributed computing environmen t. Flink is best suited for Apriori because Apache Flink ha ve native support for iterative computation and Apriori is iterative algorithm. Flink's pipelined architecture allow us to start a new iteration of Apriori as soon as partial results of earlier iteration are present. Delta iteration functionality of Flink makes Apriori highly parallel and effective algorithm for huge datasets Apriori is used to find co mmunities in huge graphs. In Summary, we have presented an implementation of Apriori on Flink and tested it with different datasets. We showed that Flink based Apriori is capable of handling huge graphs and large transactional datasets easily R EFERENCES  1  Anna L. Buczak and Christopher M. Gifford, ì Fuzzy Association Rule Mining for Community Crime Pattern Discovery,î In ISI-KDD 2010 ACM, USA, 2010 2  Apache hadoop. http://hadoop.apache.org/2013 3  Datasets. http://www.philippe-fournierviger.com/spmf/index.php?link datasets.php 4  FIMI Datasets. http://fimi.ua.ac.be/data 5  Hongjian Qiu, Rong Gu, Chunfeng Yuan and Yihua Huang, ìYAFIM: A Parallel Frequent Itemset Mining Algorithm with Spark,î In 2014 IEEE 28th International Parallel & Distributed Processing Symposium Workshops, 2014 6  Honglie Yu, Jun Wen and Hongmei Wang, ìAn Improved Apriori Algorithm Based On the Boolean Matrix and Hadoop,î In Int. Conf. on Advanced in Control Engineering and Information Science \(CEIS 2011 pp. 1827-1831 7  J. Dean and S. Ghemawat, ìMapReduce: Simplified data processing on large clusters,î In Proc. OSDI. USENIX Association, 2004 8  J. Han, H. Pei and Y. Yin, ìMining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation,î In Proc. Conf. on th e Management of Data \(SIGMODí00 Dallas, TX\ACM Press, New York, NY, USA 2000 9  Jian Guo, ìResearch on Improved Apriori Algorithm Based on Coding and MapReduce,î In 10 th Web Information System and Application Conference 2013, pp. 294-299 10  Lan Vu and Gita Alaghband, ìNovel Parallel Method for Mining Frequent Patterns on Multi-core Shared Memory Systems,î In ACM conf Denver USA, 2013, pp. 49-54 11  Latifur Khan, Mamoun Awad and Bhavani Thuraisingham, ìA new intrusion detection system using support vector machines and hierarchical clustering,î In VLDB Journal 2007 2007, pp. 507-521 12  Li N.,  Zeng L., He Q. & Shi Z, ìParallel Implementation of Apriori Algorithm Based on MapReduce,î In Proc. 13th ACIS Int. Conf Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing \(SNPD ë12 Kyoto, IEEE, 2012, pp. 236 241 13  Lin M., Lee P. & Hsueh S, ìApriori-based Frequent Itemset Mining Algorithms on MapReduce,î In Proc. 16th International Conference on Ubiquitous Information Management and Communication \(ICUIMC 12 ACM: Article No. 76, 2012 14  Lingjuan Li, Min Zhang. The Strategy of Mining Association Rule Based on Cloud Computing. In Proc. 2011 Int. Conf. Business Computing and Global Informatization \(BCGIN ë11 DC, USA, IEEE 2011, pp. 475-478 15  Matei Zaharia, Mosharaf Chowdhury, Michael J. Franklin, Scott Shenker, Ion Stoica, ìSpark: Cluster Computing with Working Sets,î In Proc. 2nd USENIX conf. on Hot topics in cloud computing, USENIX Association Berkeley, CA, USA, 2010 16  Mohammed J. Zaki, Srinivasan Parthasarathy, Mitsunori Ogihara and Wei Li, ìNew algorithms for fast discovery of association rules Technical Report 651, Computer Science Department, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627. 1997 17  Ning Li, Li Zang, Qing He and Zhongzhi Shi, ìParallel Implementation of Apriori Algorithm Based on MapReduce,î In Int. Journal of Networked and Distributed Computing Vol. 1, No. 2 \(April 2013 89-96 18  R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, ìFast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Large Databases,î Research Report RJ9839, IBM Almaden Research Center, SanJose, California, June 1994 19  R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, ìFast algorithms for mining association rules,î In Proc. VLDB Santiago, Chile, 1994, pp. 487ñ499 20  Sanjay Rathee, ManoharKaul and ArtiKashyap, ì R-Apriori: An efficient Apriori based Algorithm on Spark,î In Proc. 24th Conference on Information Retrieval and Knowledge Management\(CIKM 2015 PIKM'15, Oct, 2015@ACM. doi: 10.1145/2809890.2809893 21  Tong Wang , Cynthia Rudin, Daniel Wagner and Rich Sevieri Learning to Detect Patterns of Crim e,î In Springer , MIT, USA, 2013 22  Apache Flink: https://flink.apache.org 23  Yang X.Y., Liu Z. & Fu Y., ìMapReduce as a Programming Model for Association Rules Algorithm on Hadoop,î In Proc. 3rd Int.l Conf. on Information Sciences and Interaction Sciences \(ICIS ë10 Chengdu China, IEEE, 2010, pp. 99 ñ 102 24  Yeal Amsterdamer Yeal Grossman,Tova Milo and Pierre Senellart Crowd Mining,î In SIGMOD'13, USA, 2013 25  Yeal Amsterdamer, Yeal Grossman, Tova Milo and Pierre Senellart CrowdMiner: Mining association Rules from the crowd,î In Proceedings of VLDB Endowment, 2013 26  Zahra Farzanyar and Nick Cercone, ìEfiicient Mining of Frequent Itemsets in Social Network Data based on Mapreduce Framework,î In 2013 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Network Analysis and Mining 2013, pp. 1183-1188  2016 Intl. Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics \(ICACCI 745 


    Fig. 8. Comparative Analysis Classification Algorithms V  CONCLUSION Associative Classification techniques are used to make better decision in critical situations. The proposed associative classification called as Classification of microarray gene expression data using associative classification and gene expression intervals used to clas sify the gene expression with gene intervals in affected gene expression. The experimental results are carried out by using the gene expression of breast cancer. The associative classification on gene expression data obtained the best prediction and accuracy of the classification result. The proposed algorithm was tested with two class and multi class data sets. The classification algorithm was compared with the classical classification algorithms such as Linear Discriminant Analysis, SVM, and Decision Tree. After the comparison of traditional classification algorithms, as per the view of possible error rates the Associative Classification algorithm is best for biological data. The results of this work are used to drug designer for cancer diseases. The proposed algorithm works on gene expression data. In future, it will be implemented on hadoop and big data mining for biological data VI  R EFERENCES  1   Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Elsevier 2002 2   Second Edition PicasetOy Helsinki, 2005 3  Nagata, K., Washio, T., Kawahara, Y. and Unami, A  prediction from toxicogenomic data based on class association rule  ELSEVIER journal Toxicology Reports, vol.41, no.10 pp. 1133-1142, 2014 4  Garcia, S., Luengo, J., S·ez, J. A., LÛpez, V. and Herrera, F survey of discretization techniques: Taxonomy and empirical  Knowledge and Data Engineering, IEEE Transactions vol. 25, no.4, pp.734-750, 2013 5  Alves,R., Rodriguez.B.D.S and Aguilar. R.J.S  analysis: a survey of frequent pattern mining from gene expression  Briefings in Bioinformatics 2009, vol.2, no.2, pp.210-224 6   Miner: Maximal Confident Association Rules Miner Algorithm for Up/Down Applied Mathematics and Information Sciences vol.8 no.2, pp.799-809, 2014 7    BMC Bioinformatics vol.19, no.1, pp.7986, 2003 8  Snousy, A. M. B., El-Deeb, H. M., Badran, K. and Al Khlil, I. A  based classification algorithms on cancer  Egyptian Informatics Journal vol.12 no.2 pp.73-82. 2011 9  Refaeilzadeh, P., Tang, L. and Liu, H   Encyclopedia of database systems, Springer US pp. 532-538 2009   R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules Proceedings of the 20th Int. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases VLDB94\,475486, Santiago de Chile, Chile 1994   Alagukumar, S., and Lawrance R., "A Selective Analysis of Microarray Data Using Association Rule Mining Procedia Computer Science Vol.47, pp.3-12, 2015 doi:10.1016/j.procs.2015.03.177   Alagukumar  Cancer Data Analysis Using Frequent Pattern Mining and Gene  International Journal of Computer Applications ISSN 0975 8887, no.1, pp.9-14, June 2015   Pasquier, N., Bastide, Y., Taouil, R., & Lakhal, L Pruning closed itemset lattices for association rules  In BDA'1998 international conference on Advanced Databases pp. 177-196. 1998   Giugno R, Pulvirenti A, Cascione L, Pigola G, Ferro A MIDClass: Microarray Data Classification by Association Rules and Gene Expression Intervals. Tang H, ed. PLoS ONE 2013;8\(8\:e69873. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0069873   http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE1379   Wang, Zuncai, et al. "The prognostic biomarkers HOXB13 IL17BR, and CHDH are regulated by estrogen in breast cancer Clinical Cancer Research 13.21 pp. 6327-6334, 2005    cancer progression and host polymorphisms in the chemokine system: role of the macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 \(mcp 2518 g allele Clinical Chemistry 51: 452 5.2005   Dash, Rajashree, Rajib Lochan Paramguru, and Rasmita Dash Comparative analysis of supervised and unsupervised discretization techniques." International Journal of Advances in Science and Technology 2.3 \(2011\: 29-37   0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 LDA SVM Decision Tree CACGE Accuracy and Error rate Classification Algorithms Accuracy Error Rate 


on items contained in each item group When the number of pivots increases the entire database is split into a ner granularity and the number of partitions increase correspondingly Such a ne granularity leads to a reduction in distance computation among transactions On the other hand when the pivot number k continues growing the number of transactions mapped into one hash bucket signiﬁcantly increases thereby leading to a large candidate-object set and high shufﬂing cost see Figs 3b and 3c Consequently the overall execution time is optimized when k is 60 for both algorithms see Fig 3a 6.2 Minimum Support Recall that minimum support plays an important role in mining frequent itemsets We increase minimum support thresholds from 0.0005 to 0.0025 percent with an increment of 0.0005 percent to evaluate the impact of minimum support on FiDoop-DP The other parameters are the same as those for the previous experiments Fig 4a shows that the execution times of FiDoop-DP and Pfp decrease when the minimum support is increasing Intuitively a small minimum support leads to an increasing number of frequent 1-itemsets and transactions which have to be scanned and transmitted Table 2 illustrates the size of frequent 1-itemsets stored in FList and the number of nal output records of the two parallel solutions under various minimum-support values Fig 4a reveals that regardless of the minimum-support value FiDoop-DP is superior to Pfp in terms of running time Two reasons make this performance trend expected First FiDoop-DP optimizes the partitioning process by placing transactions with a high similarity into one group rather than randomly and evenly grouping the transaction Fig 4b conﬁrms that FiDoop-DP’s shufﬂing cost is signiﬁcantly lower than that of Pfp thanks to optimal data partitions offered by FiDoop-DP Second this grouping strategy in FiDoop-DP minimizes the number of transactions for each GList under the premise of data completeness which leads to reducing mining load for each Reducer The grouping strategy of FiDoop-DP introduces computing overhead including signature-matrix calculation and hashing each band into a bucket Nevertheless such small overhead is offset by the performance gains in the shufﬂing and reduce phases Fig 4a also shows that the performance improvement of FiDoop-DP over Pfp is widened when the minimum support increases This performance gap between FiDoop-DP and Pfp is reasonable because pushing minimum support up in FiDoop-DP lters out an increased number of frequent 1-itemsets which in turn shortens the transaction partitioning cost Small transactions simplify the correlation analysis among the transactions thus small transactions are less likely to have a large number of duplications in their partitions As a result the number of duplicated transactions to be transmitted among the partitions is signiﬁcantly reduced which allows FiDoop-DP to deliver better performance than Pfp 6.3 Data Characteristic In this group of experiments we respectively evaluate the impact of dimensionality and data correlation on the performance of FiDoop-DP and Pfp by changing the parameters in the process of generating the datasets using the IBM Quest Market-Basket Synthetic Data Generator 6.3.1 Dimensionality The average transaction length directly determines the dimensions of a test data We conﬁgure the average transaction length to 10 40 60 and 85 to generate T10I4D 130 blocks T40I10D 128 blocks T60I10D 135 blocks T85I10D 133 blocks datasets respectively In this experiment we measure the impacts of dimensions on the performance of FiDoop-DP and Pfp on the 8-node Hadoop cluster The experimental results plotted in Fig 5a clearly indicate that an increasing number of dimensions signiﬁcantly raises the running times of FiDoop-DP and Pfp This is because increasing the number of dimensions increases the number of groups thus the amount of data transmission sharply goes up as seen in Fig 5b The performance improvements of FiDoop-DP over Pfp is diminishing when the dimensionality increases from 10 to 85 For example FiDoop-DP offers an improvement of 29.4 percent when the dimensionality is set to 10 the improvement drops to 5.2 percent when the number of dimensions becomes 85 In what follows we argue that FiDoop-DP is inherently losing the power of reducing the number of redundant transactions in high-dimensional data When a dataset has a low dimensionality FiDoop-DP tends to build partitions Fig 4 Impact of minimum support on FiDoop-DP and Pfp TABLE 2 The Size of FList and the Number of Final Output Records Under Various Minimum-Support Values minsupport 0.0005 0.001 0.0015 0.002 0.0025 FList 14.69k 11.6k 9.71k 6.89k 5.51k OutRecords 745 588 465 348 278 XUN ET AL FIDOOP-DP DATA PARTITIONING IN FREQUENT ITEMSET MINING ON HADOOP CLUSTERS 109 


each of which has distinct characteristics compared with the other partitions Such distinct features among the partitions allow FiDoop-DP to efﬁciently reduce the number of redundant transactions In contrast a dataset with high dimensionality has a long average transaction length therefore data partitions produced by FiDoop-DP have no distinct discrepancy Redundant transactions are likely to be formed for partitions that lack distinct characteristics Consequently the beneﬁt offered by FiDoop-DP for highdimensional datasets becomes insigniﬁcant 6.3.2 Data Correlation We set the correlation among transactions i.e corr to 0.15 0.25 0.35 0.45 0.55 0.65 and 0.75 to measure the impacts of data correlation on the performance of the two algorithms on the 8-node Hadoop cluster The Number of Pivots is set to 60 see also Section 6.1 The experimental results plotted in Fig 5c clearly indicate that FiDoop-DP is more sensitive to data correlation than Pfp This performance trend motivates us to investigate the correlation-related data partition strategy Pfp conducts default data partition based on equal-size item group without taking into account the characteristics of the datasets However FiDoop-DP judiciously groups items with high correlation into one group and clustering similar transactions together In this way the number of redundant transactions kept on multiple nodes is substantially reduced Consequently FiDoop-DP is conducive to cutting back both data transmission trafﬁc and computing load As can be seen from Fig 5c there is an optimum balance point for data correlation degree to tune FiDoop-DP performance e.g 0.35 in Fig 5c If data correlation is too small Fidoop-DP will degenerate into random partition schema On the contrary it is difﬁcult to divide items into relatively independent groups when data correlation is high meaning that an excessive number of duplicated transactions have to be transferred to multiple nodes Thus a high data correlation leads to redundant transactions formed for partitions thereby increasing network and computing loads 6.4 Speedup Now we are positioned to evaluate the speedup performance of FiDoop-DP and Pfp by increasing the number of data nodes in our Hadoop cluster from 4 to 24 The T40I10D 128 blocks dataset is applied to drive the speedup analysis of the these algorithms Fig 6 reveals the speedups of FiDoop-DP a nd Pfp as a function of the number of data nodes The experimental results illustrated in Fig 6a show that the speedups of FiDoop-DP and Pfp linearly scale up with the increasing number of data nodes Such a speedup trend can be attributed to the fact that increasing the number of data nodes under a xed input data size inevitably 1 reduces the amount of itemsets being handled by each node and 2 increases communication overhead among mappers and reducers Fig 6a shows that FiDoop-DP is better than Pfp in terms of the speedup efﬁciency For instance the FiDoop-DP improves the speedup efﬁciency of Pfp by up to 11.2 percent with an average of 6.1 percent This trend suggests FiDoopDP improves the speedup efﬁciency of Pfp in large-scale The speedup efﬁciencies drop when the Hadoop cluster scales up For example the speedup efﬁciencies of FiDoopDP and Pfp on the 4-node cluster are 0.970 and 0.995 respectively These two speedup efﬁciencies become 0.746 and 0.800 on the 24-node cluster Such a speedup-efﬁciency trend is driven by the cost of shufﬂing intermediate results which sharply goes up when the number of data nodes scales up Although the overall computing capacity is improved by increasing the number of nodes the cost of synchronization and communication among data nodes tends to offset the gain in computing capacity For example the results plotted in Fig 6b conﬁrm that the shufﬂing cost Fig 5 Impacts of data characteristics on FiDoop-DP and Pfp Fig 6 The speedup performance and shufﬂing cost of FiDoop-DP and Pfp 110 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS VOL 28 NO 1 JANUARY 2017 


is linearly increasing when computing nodes are scaled from 4 to 24 Furthermore the shufﬂing cost of Pfp is larger than that of FiDoop-DP 6.5 Scalability In this group of experiments we evaluate the scalability of FiDoop-DP and Pfp when the size of input dataset dramatically grows Fig 7 shows the running times of the algorithms when we scale up the size of the T40I10D data series Figs 7a and 7b demonstrate the performance of FiDoop-DP processing various datasets on 8-node and 24-node clusters respectively Fig 7 clearly reveals that the overall execution times of FiDoop-DP and Pfp go up when the input data size is sharply enlarged The parallel mining process is slowed down by the excessive data amount that has to be scanned twice The increased dataset size leads to long scanning time Interestingly FiDoop-DP exhibits a better scalability than Pfp Recall that see also from Algorithm 1 the second MapReduce job compresses an initial transaction database into a signature matrix which is dealt by the subsequent process The compress ratio is high when the input data size is large thereby shortening the subsequent processing time Furthermore Fidoop-DP lowers the network trafﬁc induced by the random grouping strategy in Pfp In summary the scalability of FiDoop-DP is higher than that of Pfp when it comes to parallel mining of an enormous amount of data 7R ELATED W ORK 7.1 Data Partitioning in MapReduce Partitioning in databases has been widely studied for both single system servers e.g and distributed storage systems e.g BigTable PNUTS[31 The existing approaches typically produce possible ranges or hash partitions which are then evaluated using heuristics and cost models These schemes offer limited support for OLTP workloads or query analysis in the context of the popular MapReduce programming model In this study we focus on the data partitioning issue in MapReduce High scalability is one of the most important design goals for MapReduce applications Unfortunately the partitioning techniques in existing MapReduce platforms e.g Hadoop are in their infancy leading to serious performance problems Recently a handful of data partitioning schemes have been proposed in the MapReduce platforms Xie et al  developed a data placement management mechanism for heterogeneous Hadoop clusters Their mechanism partitions data fragments to nodes in accordance to the nodes processing speed measured by computing ratios In addition Xie et al  designed a data redistribution algorithm in HDFS to address the data-skew issue imposed by dynamic data insertions and deletions CoHadoop is a H a d oop s lightweight extension which is designed to identify relateddataﬁlesfollowedbyamodiﬁeddataplacement policy to co-locate copies of those related les in the same server CoHadoop considers the relevance among les that is CoHadoop is an optimization of HaDoop for multiple les A key assumption of the MapReduce programming model is that mappers are completely independent of one another Vernica et al  broke such an assumption by introducing an asynchronous communication channel among mappers T his c hannel e nables the m appers to see global states managed in metadata Such situationaware mappers SAMs can enable MapReduce to exibly partition the inputs Apart from this adaptive sampling and partitioning were proposed to produce balanced partitions for the reducers by sampling mapper outputs and making use of obtained statistics Graph and hypergraph partitioning have been used to guide data partitioning in parallel computing Graph-based partitioning schemes capture data relationships For example Ke et al applied a graphic-execution-plan graph EPG to perform cost estimation and optimization by analyzing various properties of both data and computation Their estimation module coupled with the cost model estimate the runtime cost of each vertex in an EPG which represents the overall runtime cost a data partitioning plan is determined by a cost optimization module Liroz-Gistau et al proposed the MR-Part technique which partitions all input tuples producing the same intermediate key co-located in the same chunk Such a partitioning approach minimizes data transmission among mappers and reducers in the shufﬂe phase The approach captures the relationships between input tuples and intermediate keys by monitoring the execution of representative workload Then based on these relationships their approach applies a min-cut k-way graph partitioning algorithm thereby partitioning and assigning the tuples to appropriate fragments by modeling the workload with a hyper graph In doing so subsequent MapReduce jobs take full advantage of data locality in the reduce phase Their partitioning strategy suffers from adverse initialization overhead Fig 7 The scalability of FiDoop-DP and Pfp when the size of input dataset increases XUN ET AL FIDOOP-DP DATA PARTITIONING IN FREQUENT ITEMSET MINING ON HADOOP CLUSTERS 111 


7.2 Application-Aware Data Partitioning Various efﬁcient data partitioning strategies have been proposed to improve the performance of parallel computing systems For example Kirsten et al  developed two general partitioning strategies for generating entity match tasks to avoid memory bottlenecks and load imbalances Taking into account the characteristics of input data Aridhi et al proposed a novel density-based data partitioning technique for approximate large-scale frequent subgraph mining to balance computational load among a collection of machines Kotoulas et al built a data distribution mechanism based on clustering in elastic regions Traditional term-based partitioning has limited scalability due to the existence of very skewed frequency distributions among terms Load-balanced distributed clustering across networks and local clustering are introduced to improve the chance that triples with a same key are collocated These selforganizing approaches need no data analysis or upfront parameter adjustments in a priori Lu et al studied k nearest neighbor join using MapReduce in which a data partitioning approach was designed to reduce both shufﬂing and computational costs In Lu’s study objects are divided into partitions using a Voronoi diagram with carefully selected pivots Then data partitions i.e Voronoi cells are clustered into groups only if distances between them are restricted by a speciﬁc bound In this way their approach can answer the k-nearest-neighbour join queries by simply checking object pairs within each group FIM for data-intensive applications over computing clusters has received a growing attention efﬁcient data partitioning strategies have been proposed to improve the performance of parallel FIM algorithms A MapReducebased Apriori algorithm is designed to incorporate a new dynamic partitioning and distributing data method to improve mining performance This method divides input data into relatively small splits to provide exibility for improved load-balance performance Moreover the master node doesn’t distribute all the data once rather the rest data are distributed based on dynamically changing workload and computing capability weight of each node Similarly Jumbo adopted a dynamic partition assignment technology enabling each task to process more than one partition Thus these partitions can be dynamically reassigned to different tasks to improve the load balancing performance of Pfp Uthayopas et al  investigated I/O and execution scheduling strategies to balance data processing load thereby enhancing the utilization of a multi-core cluster system supporting association-rule mining In order to pick a winning strategy in terms of data-blocks assignment Uthayopas et al incorporated three basic placement policies namely the round robin range and random placement Their approach ignores data characteristics during the course of mining association rules 8F URTHER D ISCUSSIONS In this study we investigated the data partitioning issues in parallel FIM We focused on MapReduce-based parallel FPtree algorithms in particular we studied how to partition and distribute a large dataset across data nodes of a Hadoop cluster to reduce network and computing loads We argue that the general idea of FiDoop-DP proposed in this study can be extended to other FIM algorithms like Apriori running on Hadoop clusters Apriori-based parallel FIM algorithms can be classiﬁed into two camps namely count distribution and data distribution  For the count distribution camp each node in a cluster calculates local support counts of all candidate itemsets Then the global support counts of the candidates are computed by exchanging the local support counts For the data distribution camp each node only keeps the support counts of a subset of all candidates Each node is responsible for delivering its local database partition to all the other processors to compute support counts In general the data distribution schemes have higher communication overhead than the count distribution ones whereas the data distribution schemes have lower synchronization overhead than its competitor Regardless of the count distribution or data distribution approaches the communication and synchronization cost induce adverse impacts on the performance of parallel mining algorithms The basic idea of Fidoop-DP—grouping highly relevant transactions into a partition allows the parallel algorithms to exploit correlations among transactions in database to cut communication and synchronization overhead among Hadoop nodes 9C ONCLUSIONS A ND F UTURE W ORK To mitigate high communication and reduce computing cost in MapReduce-based FIM algorithms we developed FiDoop-DP which exploits correlation among transactions to partition a large dataset across data nodes in a Hadoop cluster FiDoop-DP is able to 1 partition transactions with high similarity together and 2 group highly correlated frequent items into a list One of the salient features of FiDoopDP lies in its capability of lowering network trafﬁc and computing load through reducing the number of redundant transactions which are transmitted among Hadoop nodes FiDoop-DP applies the Voronoi diagram-based data partitioning technique to accomplish data partition in which LSH is incorporated to offer an analysis of correlation among transactions At the heart of FiDoop-DP is the second MapReduce job which 1 partitions a large database to form a complete dataset for item groups and 2 conducts FP-Growth processing in parallel on local partitions to generate all frequent patterns Our experimental results reveal that FiDoop-DP signiﬁcantly improves the FIM performance of the existing Pfp solution by up to 31 percent with an average of 18 percent We introduced in this study a similarity metric to facilitate data-aware partitioning As a future research direction we will apply this metric to investigate advanced loadbalancing strategies on a heterogeneous Hadoop cluster In one of our earlier studies see for details we addressed the data-placement issue in heterogeneous Hadoop clusters where data are placed across nodes in a way that each node has a balanced data processing load Our data placement scheme can balance the amount of data stored in heterogeneous nodes to achieve improved data-processing performance Such a scheme implemented at the level of Hadoop distributed le system HDFS is unaware of correlations among application data To further improve load balancing 112 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS VOL 28 NO 1 JANUARY 2017 


mechanisms implemented in HDFS we plan to integrate FiDoop-DP with a data-placement mechanism in HDFS on heterogeneous clusters In addition to performance issues energy efﬁciency of parallel FIM systems will be an intriguing research direction A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The work in this paper was in part supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of P.R China No.61272263 No.61572343 Xiao Qin’s work was supported by the U.S National Science Foundation under Grants CCF-0845257 CAREER The authors would also like to thank Mojen Lau for proof-reading R EFERENCES  M J Zaki Parallel and distribu ted associat ion mining A survey IEEE Concurrency  vol 7 no 4 pp 14–25 Oct 1999  I Pramudiono and M Kitsuregawa  Fp-tax Tree structure based generalized association rule mining in Proc 9th ACM SIGMOD Workshop Res Issues Data Mining Knowl Discovery  2004 pp 60–63  J De an a n d S Gh e ma wa t M ap re du ce  S i mp l i e d da ta pr o ce s si n g on large clusters ACM Commun  vol 51 no 1 pp 107–113 2008  S Sakr A Liu and A G Fayoumi The family of mapred uce and large-scale data processing systems ACM Comput Surveys  vol 46 no 1 p 11 2013  M.-Y Lin P.-Y Lee and S.-C Hsueh Apriori-based frequent itemset mining algorithms on mapreduce in Proc 6th Int Conf Ubiquitous Inform Manag Commun  2012 pp 76:1–76:8  X Li n  Mr a pr io ri  As so ci a ti o n ru le s a lg o ri th m ba se d on mapreduce in Proc IEEE 5th Int Conf Softw Eng Serv Sci  2014 pp 141–144  L Zhou Z Zhong J Chang J Li J Huang and S Feng Balanced parallel FP-growth with mapreduce in Proc IEEE Youth Conf Inform Comput Telecommun  2010 pp 243–246  S Hong Z Huaxuan C Shiping and H Chunyan The study of improved FP-growth algorithm in mapreduce in Proc 1st Int Workshop Cloud Comput Inform Security  2013 pp 250–253  M Riondato  J A DeBrabant R Fonseca and E Upfal Parma A parallel randomized algorithm for approximate association rules mining in mapreduce in Proc 21st ACM Int Conf Informa Knowl Manag  2012 pp 85–94  C Lam Hadoop in Action  Greenwich USA Manning Publications Co 2010  H Li Y Wang D Zhang M Zhang and E Y Chang PFP Parallel FP-growth for query recommendation in Proc ACM Conf Recommender Syst  2008 pp 107–114  C Curino E Jones Y Zhang and S Madden Schism A workload-driven approach to database replication and partitioning Proc VLDB Endowment  vol 3 no 1-2 pp 48–57 2010  P Uthayop as and N Benjamas Impact of i/o and execution scheduling strategies on large scale parallel data mining J Next Generation Inform Technol  vol 5 no 1 p 78 2014  I  P r a m u d i o n o a n d M  K i t s u r e g a w a  P a r a l l e l F P g r o w t h o n P C cluster in Proc.Adv.Knowl.DiscoveryDataMining  2003 pp 467–473  Y Xun J Zhang and X Qin Fidoop Parallel mining of frequent itemsets using mapreduce IEEE Trans Syst Man Cybern Syst  vol 46 no 3 pp 313–325 Mar 2016 doi 10.1109 TSMC.2015.2437327  S Owen R Anil T Dunning and E Friedman Mahout Action  Greenwich USA Manning 2011  D Borthakur  Hdfs architecture guide HADOOP APACHE PROJECT Available  http://hadoop.apache.org/common/docs current/hdfs design.pdf 2008  M Zaharia M Chowdhury M J Franklin  S Shenker and I Stoica Spark Cluster computing with working sets in Proc 2nd USENIX Conf Hot Topics Cloud Comput  2010 p 10  W Lu Y Shen S Chen and B C Ooi Efﬁcient proces sing of k nearest neighbor joins using mapreduce Proc VLDB Endowment  vol 5 no 10 pp 1016–1027 2012  T Kanung o D M Mount N S Netanya hu C D Piatko R Silverman and A Y Wu An efﬁcient k-means clustering algorithm Analysis and implementation IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell  vol 24 no 7 pp 881–892 Jul 2002  A K Jain Data clustering 50 years beyond k-means Pattern Recog Lett  vol 31 no 8 pp 651–666 2010  D Arthur and S Vassilvitskii  k-means  The advantages of careful seeding in Proc 18th Annu ACM-SIAM Symp Discr Algorithms  2007 pp 1027–1035  J Leskovec A Rajaraman and J D Ullman Mining Massive Datasets  Cambridge U.K Cambridge Univ Press 2014  A Stupar  S Mich el and R Schen kel Rankred uce–pr ocessin g k-nearest neighbor queries on top of mapreduce in Proc 8th Workshop Large-Scale Distrib Syst Informa Retrieval  2010 pp 13–18  B Bahmani A Goel and R Shinde Efﬁcient distributed locality sensitive hashing in Proc 21st ACM Int Conf Inform Knowl Manag  2012 pp 2174–2178  R Panigrahy Entropy based nearest neighbor search in high dimensions in Proc 17th Annu ACM-SIAM Symp Discr Algorithm  2006 pp 1186–1195  A Z Broder M Charikar  A M Frieze and M Mitzenma cher Min-wise independent permutations J Comput Syst Sci  vol 60 no 3 pp 630–659 2000  L Cristofor ARtool Association rule mining algorit hms and tools 2006  S Agrawal V Narasayya  and B Yang Integrating vertical and horizontal partitioning into automated physical database design in Proc ACM SIGMOD Int Conf Manag Data  2004 pp 359–370  F Chang J Dean S Ghema wat W Hsieh D Wallach  M  Burrows T Chandra A Fikes and R Gruber Bigtable A distributed structured data storage system in Proc 7th Symp Operating Syst Des Implementation  2006 pp 305–314  B F Cooper R Ramakrishn an U Srivastava A Silberstein P Bohannon H.-A Jacobsen N Puz D Weaver and R Yerneni Pnuts Yahoo!’s hosted data serving platform Proc VLDB Endowment  vol 1 no 2 pp 1277–1288 2008  J Xie and X Qin The 19th heterogenei ty in computing workshop HCW 2010 in Proc IEEE Int Symp Parallel Distrib Process Workshops Phd Forum  Apr 2010 pp 1–5  M Y Eltabakh Y Tian F  Ozcan R Gemulla A Krettek and J McPherson Cohadoop Flexible data placement and its exploitation in hadoop Proc VLDB Endowment  vol 4 no 9 pp 575 585 2011  R Vernica A Balmin K S Beyer and V Ercegovac Adaptive mapreduce using situation-aware mappers in Proc 15th Int Conf Extending Database Technol  2012 pp 420–431  Q Ke V Prabhakar an Y Xie Y Yu J Wu and J Yang Optimizing data partitioning for data-parallel computing uS Patent App 13/325,049 Dec 13 2011  M Liroz-Gis tau R Akbarinia D Agrawal E Pacitti  and P Valduriez Data partitioning for minimizing transferred data in mapreduce in Proc 6th Int Conf Data Manag Cloud Grid P2P Syst  2013 pp 1–12  T Kirsten L Kolb M Hartung A Gro H K  opcke and E Rahm Data partitioning for parallel entity matching Proc VLDB Endowment  vol 3 no 2 pp 1–8 2010  S Kotoulas E Oren and F Van Harmelen Mind the data skew Distributed inferencing by speeddating in elastic regions in Proc 19th Int Conf World Wide Web  2010 pp 531–540  L Li and M Zhang The strategy of mining associat ion rule based on cloud computing in Proc Int Conf Bus Comput Global Inform  2011 pp 475–478  S Groot K Goda and M Kitsuregawa  Towards improv ed load balancing for data intensive distributed computing in Proc ACM Symp Appl Comput  2011 pp 139–146  M Z Ashra D Taniar and K Smith ODAM An optimiz ed distributed association rule mining algorithm IEEE Distrib Syst Online  vol 5 no 3 p 1 Mar 2004 Yaling Xun is currently a doctoral student at Taiyuan University of Science and Technology She is currently a lecturer in the School of Computer Science and Technology Taiyuan University of Science and Technology Her research interests include data mining and parallel computing XUN ET AL FIDOOP-DP DATA PARTITIONING IN FREQUENT ITEMSET MINING ON HADOOP CLUSTERS 113 


Jifu Zhang received the BS and MS degrees in computer science and technology from the Hefei University of Tchnology China and the PhD degree in pattern recognition and intelligence systems from the Beijing Institute of Technology in 1983 1989 and 2005 respectively He is currently a professor in the School of Computer Science and Technology TYUST His research interests include data mining parallel and distributed computing and artiﬁcial intelligence Xiao Qin received the PhD degree in computer science from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln in 2004 He is currently a professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering Auburn University His research interests include parallel and distributed systems storage systems fault tolerance real-time systems and performance evaluation He received the U.S NSF Computing Processes and Artifacts Award and the NSF Computer System Research Award in 2007 and the NSF CAREER Award in 2009 He is a senior member of the IEEE Xujun Zhao received the MS degree in computer science and technology in 2005 from the Taiyuan University of Technology China He is currently working toward the PhD degree at Taiyuan University of Science and Technology His research interests include data mining and parallel computing  For more information on this or any other computing topic please visit our Digital Library at www.computer.org/publications/dlib 114 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS VOL 28 NO 1 JANUARY 2017 


