Phoenix Mars Scout Landing Risk Assessment Douglas S Adams California Institute of Technology Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 818-393-6387 Douglas.S.Adamsgjpl.nasa.gov Abstract The Phoenix Mars Scout lander touchdown event is described along with critical variables that determine the risk to its 
success Hazards due to terrain slopes and surface rocks are considered in terms of both basic touchdown survival and science team requirements Dynamic analyses of the landing are described as well as geometric static analyses of potential rock interferences with the solar array deployments These data are summarized and 
the total risk to the lander is quantified for use in landing site certification TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION  1 2 LANDER DESCRIPTION  2 3 TOUCHDOWN SENSING AND DECLARATION 2 4 DYNAMIC TOUCHDOWN ANALYSIS  3 5 STATIC TOUCHDOWN 
ANALYSIS  5 6 RISK ASSESSMENT RESULTS  6 7 CONCLUSIONS  7 8 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  7 REFERENCES   7 BIOGRAPHY   7 1 INTRODUCTION The Phoenix Mars Scout lander is currently en route to Mars and 
has the opportunity to execute the first successful powered landing on an extra-Earth body since the two Viking landers in 1976 A great deal has been learned about Mars from the Viking and subsequent missions that has allowed an unprecedented appraisal of the landing risk and the interaction 
of the spacecraft with the surface during the touchdown event In particular recent images from the HiRISE camera onboard the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter MRO have provided a detailed appraisal of the landing site rock population and slope variation unlike any before it This information 
has been incorporated into state of the art simulations of the Phoenix lander touchdown dynamics that provide an assessment of the risk to the spacecraft stability and surface operational requirements Unlike the Pathfinder and Mars Exploration Rover MER missions which used airbags the Phoenix mission will soft land on 
the surface and is subsequently at risk due to the Figure 1 Phoenix lander in its fully deployed and operational surface configuration 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 1 2 IEEEAC 
paper  1316 Version 6 Updated December 14 2007 1 


uncertainty of the terrain and rock abundance Every effort has been made to quantify these risks and to include their effects in both a dynamic touchdown model and a static post-touchdown clearance analysis This paper presents a summary of the major steps taken in these analyses and the results that were obtained and subsequently used to help certify the primary Phoenix landing site 2 LANDER DESCRIPTION The Phoenix lander has a dry mass of 345 kg and is projected to land with about 15 kg of propellant for a total wet landed mass of approximately 360 kg Once on Mars the lander will rest on its three legs with the top of the science deck sitting at a height of 1 m above the surface The lander is powered by two 1.8 m diameter solar arrays and is equipped with a robotic arm that supplies samples to the instruments on the payload deck An illustration of the lander in its operational surface mode is shown in Figure 1 Each of the three main legs is augmented with two diagonal stabilizers that provide the rigidity necessary to maintain the leg positions and aid in absorbing energy during the landing The legs are also each equipped with a Hall effect sensor that is used to indicate when the footpad makes contact with the surface The primary risks to the lander are overturning due to the initial touchdown event a dynamic failure a rock high centering or heavily damaging the lander body and the failure to deploy one or both of the solar arrays the body and solar array modes are considered post landing or static failures The static and dynamic risks can largely be decoupled and are treated using two separate approaches 3 TOUCHDOWN SENSING AND DECLARATION A number of important steps are taken during the terminal descent phase of Entry Descent and Landing EDL in order to guard against a premature or inaccurate touchdown declaration The Phoenix lander is illustrated close to touchdown in Figure 2 One of the prime suspects in the loss of the Mars Polar Lander MPL mission in 1998 was the tripping of the touchdown sensors due to a bounce back phenomenon during leg deployment which if it occurred on MPL would have ultimately led to an early shutdown of the engines resulting in the loss of the lander The vast majority of terrestrial leg deployment tests performed to date for both MPL and Phoenix have activated the touchdown sensor momentarily which supports the MPL report's conclusion The major mechanical events in the EDL timeline are cruise stage separation parachute deployment heatshield separation leg deployment lander separation and touchdown The legs are deployed independently at 0.5 s intervals to minimize any dynamic interaction between the leg deployment mechanisms In addition five seconds after lander separation the touchdown counters are reset to zero Figure 2 Phoenix lander in terminal descent with all 12 descent engines shown firing 2 


to FSW good sensor A Valves Closed v 1 L Thrust  10 Figure 3 Phoenix system level touchdown sensor timing requirements 3 failed sensor there is insufficient time to significantly alter the lander attitude or rates In the unlikely event that all three Hall effect sensors are marked failed prior to enabling the touchdown logic then the attitude control system ACS is left active and will continue to fire thrusters with the lander on the surface until the propellant is exhausted The ACS controls to a constant vertical velocity and will recognize when the vertical velocity goes to zero and throttle down the descent engines to their minimum During this transient period the sequence is waiting for the FSW to declare touchdown However since the touchdown sensors are failed it will never declare touchdown until the sequence reaches a built-in 200 s timeout starting from backshell separation after which it will start deploying the solar arrays even if the FSW never declares touchdown The 200 s timeout was derived from the worst-case time required to consume all of the remaining propellant This scenario was simulated and found to be successful by and large although it is not desirable from a science perspective as it would result in a great deal more contamination of the landing site 4 DYNAMIC TOUCHDOWN ANALYSIS The actual touchdown event is simulated using an ADAMS Automatic Dynamic Analysis of Mechanical Systems model that is constructed with a number of rigid bodies connected by elastic elements that provides a highly accurate representation of the lander dynamics ADAMS is a commercially available code that is well suited to this kind of analysis The model was correlated to component level and system level mechanical test data in order to validate the stiffness properties and basic vehicle dynamics that were necessary for the analysis A view of the ADAMS model of the lander immediately before touchdown is shown in Figure 4 The initial conditions for the touchdown analysis were taken from high fidelity Monte Carlo simulations that accurately 60 ms System FSW 25 ms PROP CMD  Valve Driver First Sensor Stat e Leg Activated Available Contact r i LF I I and a sanity check period is initiated wherein the touchdown sensors are monitored to detect any false signals This probationary period lasts from five seconds after lander separation until the lander reaches a navigated altitude of 30 m above the surface If the flight software FSW receives a positive indication from any touchdown sensor at any time during the probationary period then that sensor is marked failed and only the remaining sensors are used to determine when touchdown occurs The touchdown sensors themselves are Hall effect sensors that detect the displacement of a SmCo magnet when the footpads encounter a resistive force of 60-100 lbf 267445 N By requirement within 60 ms of first contact the engines will shut down and achieve a thrust level of less than 10 as shown in the timeline in Figure 3 The actual sensor mechanism and engine shutdown timing were included in the dynamic model to ensure the maximum fidelity in the simulation One noteworthy item in Figure 3 is that there is a significant added delay to sensing touchdown if one or more of the leg sensors are failed In general it was found that this additional delay roughly doubled the risk of tip-over during the touchdown event This effect is not included in the results presented in the remainder of the discussion but was considered in the final assessment Approximately the last 50 m of flight are covered in constant velocity mode where the controller targets a 2.4 m/s descent rate At this speed the lander will only travel about 15 cm during the 60 ms it takes to shutdown the engines The 12 engines themselves are pulsed in 100 ms intervals at 10 Hz with a variable duty cycle used to generate the desired thrust and control moments The 60 ms required to initiate shut down of the engines is short enough that the controller will not have time to react to the upsetting ground contact moments before the engines are shutdown The benefit of this is that there is nominally little or no coupling between the control system and the contact with the ground so the coupling can be ignored in the dynamic analysis The same is generally true for the ground effect pressure bubble as the lander is moving fast enough that 0-200ms ms 2 msMECH ELEC 25 msFirst Leg Contact F 


Figure 4 ADAMS model of the Phoenix lander immediately before touchdown in an arbitrary field of hemispherical rocks simulated the entire entry profile from atmospheric interface up to the point where the lander contacted the surface The entry simulation included winds parachute dynamics radar performance and thruster plume interaction with the ground These terminal state vectors were then used as initial conditions for the ADAMS analysis in determining the dynamic stability of the vehicle on the surface The surface itself was modeled as flat having a local average slope that was representative of the landing site with an arbitrary slope azimuth The surface was then populated by rocks that were generated using the Golombek 1 exponential model at different discrete rock densities because the precise make-up of the rocks at the landing site is unknown several rock densities were run in order to assess the level of risk as a function of the rock field density This information was then convolved with rock density maps generated using HiRISE and geomorphological maps to construct the dynamic component of the landing risk A key component of the lander safety is the interaction of the lander with rocks on the surface Because the precise shape of individual rocks is not known a priori it is necessary to approximate the geometry A number of different shapes were considered but a hemispherical shape was selected as providing a good approximation of observed surface rocks while maintaining an adequate average conservatism overall A hemispherical rock is also much easier to examine computationally which proved to be a significant advantage in the analysis The ADAMS model image in Figure 4 is notional as it shows a simulated field of hemispherical rocks While the rocks were modeled as hemispheres in principle the actual calculations in ADAMS used an even further simplified flat top rock model The lander footprint was first placed in a simulated rock field in order to determine which footpads were in contact with rocks and at what height along the hemispherical surface the contact was made This height was then fed into the ADAMS model as displacements above the surface which effectively simulated the first contact with the rocks One drawback to this is that the position on the rocks remains at a constant height as the footpads are not allowed to slide up or down the rocks this was found to be a minor issue which was overcome by the improved speed and efficiency realized from using the flat topped rocks by avoiding more computationally expensive contact elements The idea of using flat top rocks is not a visually appealing one but analysis has shown that the touchdown event is dominated by the height that the footpads contact the rock and that the actual geometry of the rock plays a lesser role This is largely due to the significance of the descent rate at touchdown which is nominally 2.4 m/s and has requirements to fall within the range of 1.4 to 3.4 m/s The lateral velocity is required to be less than 1.4 m/s and is usually low enough that it plays a lesser role To help compensate for the potential geometric effects of the rocks the footpads are individually assigned random coefficients of friction uniformly distributed from over the range of 0.51.0 Even with the footpad friction in play most dynamic failures were attributed to the effective increase in the local slope caused by large or very unfortunately placed rocks In point of fact if the lander encounters a 2 m rock there is little chance for success 4 c  Iiitoioff 


5 STATIC TOUCHDOWN ANALYSIS The Phoenix lander possesses a wide foot print and low center of gravity which proved to be highly stable in the ADAMS simulations In the end the dominant contributor to the landing risk was actually determined to be the rock/surface interference with the deployment of the two solar arrays Tall rocks close to the lander sides or under one of the lander feet can prevent the solar arrays from deploying completely resulting in a diminished power state There is also a direct risk that the lander body might strike a rock that could result in damage and potentially limit the ability of the scientific payload to function Rocks also affect the dynamics of the lander during the touchdown Figure 5 a as landed configuration with stowed solar arrays b 1st stage of one solar array is complete c 1st stage is complete on one array with the 2nd stage started on the other d one array is deployed with the other array partially through the 2nd stage Figure 6 ADAMS model of the Phoenix lander after touchdown showing solar array and lander body interferences with surface rocks as indicated by the two lightning bolts 5 


event itself but this destabilizing effect has been found to be a lesser problem than the static geometric interferences and is generally treated separately The Phoenix solar arrays deploy in two stages where the center of each array is first swung away from the lander body and into position and then the array panels are deployed by sweeping out a 3600 arc around the center point The two stages of solar array deployment are illustrated in Figure 5 The driving feature of the deployment is the bottom corner of the array which is visible in the lower right of Figure 5\(d This corner sweeps out a circular arc that is below the instrument deck and at the full 1.8 m diameter of the array The result is that any rocks that either interfere directly with the path of the solar array or elevate the footpads sufficiently to cause the ground to interfere can result in partial deployment of one or both of the solar arrays An example of the solar array deployment envelope interference with a hemispherical rock is illustrated in Figure 6 In order to assess the static geometric risk a series of 1-km2 simulated rock fields are first generated in Matlab using the Golombek 1 exponential model It is important to note that the risk to the lander is also a strong function of the rock height to diameter ratio due to the exponentially larger number of smaller rocks For the purpose of this analysis the rocks are again assumed to be hemispherical with a height to diameter ratio h/d  0.5 which has proven to be a good approximation of the surface and orbital observations of Martian rocks The lander is then randomly placed in these rock fields and checked for contact first contact with three lander feet is detected and the lander is reoriented accordingly and second the solar array and lander body volumes are checked for interferences to both the rocks and 0.16 0.14 0.12 l 111111 l 1 1 l 0.12 0.1  0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 0 0 0.05 0.1 0.15 k=CFA the surface which is assumed to be locally flat Each different rock density field is analyzed in Matlab with 10,000 landing events and the results are then fit with a polynomial to give a risk curve as a function of the cumulative fractional area CFA covered by rocks The results are shown in Figure 7 for CFA's up to 300O 6 RISK ASSESSMENT RESULTS A summary and comparison of the Phoenix landing risk assessment for static and dynamic events is provided in Table 1 The data presented includes three different rock field densities or CFA's of 5\260O 10 and 15 As noted in the subtext of Table 1 the data are presented in a hierarchal sense such that any case that failed for multiple reasons is removed from the pool of remaining cases so that they are not counted more than once For instance if a landing fails due to an instability caused by a rock under a footpad it would not also be included in the failure to deploy a solar array category In examining the data presented in Figure 7 and in Table 1 it is evident that the landing risk increases markedly with increasing rock coverage It is also clear from Table 1 that the dominant component of the total tipover  rock interference risk comes from the rock interference component which typically makes up about 900o of the total risk to the lander For this reason much of the landing site selection effort has been focused on finding areas of low rock density and the metric for success is taken as the rock interference success/failure probability with the understanding that this represents the majority of the total risk 1663E-02  BDMYPY Poly BDMYPY 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 Figure 7 Probability of failure due to contact with a rock as a function of CFA where all contacts with the body BD or the Y/+Y solar arrays MYPY are included 6 


Table 1 Summary of static and dynamic landing risks for 1000 independent landings Item Rock Abundance 5 10 15  Unstable Landing Surface Slope 260-\260\260 0.00 0.00 Unstable Landing Rock Under Pad 0.10 0.80 1.20 Tipo6ve CAses J 10 MM 260 1 2O Rock Impacts Lander Enclosure 0.50 2.40 4.20 Ground Inhibits One Array Deploy 0.10 0.20 0.60 Rocks Inhibit One Array Deploy 0.40 4.00 8.90 Rocks Inhibit Both Array Deploy 0.00 0.00 0.00 Rock Inteferlence J 1.00 616O 13J0 ITAI Tipover Rock Interferee I 10%j1 74%1 1C490 Marginal Stability Ratio 0%&<20 0.10 0.10 0.10 Leg Stroke  85 of Crushable Limit 0.00 0.00 0.00 Load Limiter Deform  85 of Limit 0.10 0.10 0.00 Tilt to North  16 deg 0.30 0.40 0.90 Tilt to to Surface  16 deg 0.00 0.20 0.60 Stessing\247 Cases 0M50 MMO 1ASO Note Failure tvDes in hierarcha order if case meets multiole criteria and is counted in anv row above it is not counted a;aain 7 CONCLUSIONS The Phoenix lander has been modeled in both a dynamic and static sense in order to assess the level of risk to the lander for a given landing site surface composition It has been found that while there is a potential for the lander to tip over during touchdown the primary component of risk actually occurs due to the possibility that the lander will land on or near a rock large enough to either damage critical components of the lander body or to prevent one or more of its solar arrays from deploying A number of stressing cases were also identified through the static and dynamic analysis that result in reduced system margins and could possibly limit the mission science if conditions were unfavorable However overall the probability of success for Phoenix is very high and the team is looking forward to landing day on May 25 2008 8 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The author wishes to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of the Lockheed Martin team that was instrumental in developing and performing many of the dynamic analyses reported in this paper and provided a number of the figures In particular the contributions of John Bruce and Tim Gasparrini were invaluable and were very much appreciated Special thanks also to everyone on the Phoenix team for their tireless efforts in putting it all together and making it work If it was easy then everyone would do it REFERENCES 1 Matthew P Golombek et al Rock size-frequency distributions on Mars and implications for Mars Exploration Rover landing safety and operations J Geophysical Research 108\(E12 Dec 25 2003 pp ROV27-1-23 BIOGRAPHY Douglas Adams is a senior member of the engineering staff in the Spacecraft Structures and Dynamics Group at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena California He joined JPL after receiving his Ph.D in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Purdue University in May of 2001 His background includes work in structures structural dynamics mechanics of materials fracture mechanics composite materials as well as spacecraft attitude dynamics and control During his tenure at JPL he has worked on numerous programs including the Mars Exploration Rovers MER Terrestrial Planet Finder TPF MARSIS SHARAD Hydros and Aquarius In his most recent experience he worked as the Entry Descent and Landing EDL Mechanical Systems Engineer for the Phoenix spacecraft currently en route to Mars and he is presently engaged as the Mars Science Laboratory MSL Parachute Cognizant Engineer 7 


The analysis of these mechanisms indicates that there are some strengths and weaknesses as far as the practices for each category, are concerned.  Generally the studied organizations indicate to have strength in supportive IT organization structure with exception of not having IT strategy and steering committees in most of them. The major weaknesses seem to be on the processes where best practices and standards like Strategic Information Systems Planning, IT Management/Governance & performance management frameworks are rarely applied and this could be detrimental to the consistency and enforcement in deployment, use and management of IT. Also while there is some strength in relational mechanisms practices like shared understanding of business/IT goals and Informal meetings between business and IT management across the studied environment, there are also weaknesses in many of these mechanisms including knowledge management, virtual meeting points and performance/partnership rewards and incentives. It is also worth to note that improvement on these practices is continuously being done, however not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal progress in governance of IT to further increase IT contribution to achieve corporate goals Looking at these results in the international context we see that they are in contrast with related studies in the developed world, like is the case of six organizations in Belgium [9   w h i c h i n d i c a t e d t h a t  most of them had specific IT Governance projects and applied best practices and standards  like COBIT, ITIL PRINCE2 and Balance Scorecard Taking into account the fact that one of the key determinants of the effective IT Governance in the organization, apart from constitution of IT structure, is where the IT decision-making authority is located in the organization l s o  tak i n g i n to accou n t th e  practices in place in relation to IT Governance key decisions in terms of who provides input on one hand and decides on the other, the findings across the studied organizations indicate that generally both are distributed across the organization as indicated in Fig 5. Specifically, however, the notable pattern indicates that IT provides most of the inputs throughout the decisions except on the Business application needs where inputs are equally coming from business related groups. The decisions indicate a different trend as are mostly made by executive management comprising IT and Business people, which if done well is likely to increase alignment of IT and business and smooth implementation of IT applications and its us Looking at related studies elsewhere and taking the case of MIT-CISR work and specifically on the public  iou s th a t t h ere are si m i larities i n t h e  pattern especially on decisions where federal dominates in both cases. However, differences appear in decisions related to IT architecture and infrastructure, done by IT Monarchy while in our case it is done by the same Federal. Notably, when it comes to the input, the difference seems to be substantial due to the fact that while IT monarchy dominates most of the inputs in the compared studies, our related study environment indicates to be dominated by Federal Looking at the differences in both cases we can see that the mature IT Governance practices especially on structures might be one of the determinants of the differences and required governance effectiveness    5. Discussion: Problems and consequences Use of ICT in the studied environment is still a relatively new culture and this has contributed to the problems encount  T h es e proble m s are  discussed here based on the representative case studies seen earlier. Also this section indicates the consequences in order that the implications for not taking necessary actions are known, so that this could be taken as motivation for change or further research  5.1. Problems As it was earlier indicated, one vital way of looking at IT Governance related problems in an organization is its key focus areas o applied by oth e r earlier  studies T h es e areas i.e. s t rateg ic al ignm ent, v a l u e  delivery, risk management, resource management and Fi g ure 5 The IT Governance key decisions patterns in the studied organizations  1 5 No. Of  Cases Occurence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


performance management, are also applied here to look into the problems as were embedded in the questionnaires used in the survey. These problems are ranked according to the interviewees perspective on their seriousness in the sector \(Table 3\d respective discussion is done as per IT Governance focus areas Also the highlight is provided taking into account the summary and discussion on the current practices unveiled in the earlier section  5.1.1. Strategic Alignment This focuses on ensuring the linkage of business and IT plans; defining maintaining and validating the IT value proposition and aligning IT operations with enterprise operations  ook i n g acros s t h e s t u d i e d org an i z a t i ons i t i s  clear that there is no specific IT strategic plan in most of them that could tie the business and IT activities more holistically and effectively. This, among others leads to the biggest problem, i.e. lack of ownership by business people in IT-enabled projects \(Table 3\d in some cases organizations being forced to allocate IT personnel to do what business people should be doing rather than supporting them The aspect of inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures is another problem that is also consistent across most of them. It hampers consistency in ICT usage and management, which is yet another serious problem. Lack of IT Governance awareness and certainly some guidelines are also seen as problem This is also linked with HR related problems on lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability that sometimes, among others, leads to the ad-hoc practices. While it appears that there are mechanisms to communicate ICT plans and goals e.g. through meetings and workshops, inadequate enforcement mechanisms still hamper the widespread use of ICT and promised benefits. An example is Intranet which seems to be in place in many organizations and can increase IT/Business partnershi d in tern a l  efficiency but it is still not being used widely enough  5.1.2. Value delivery  is one of the IT Governance outcomes and is about value proposition throughout the delivery cycle, ensuring that IT delivers the promised benefits against the strategy or plans t h i s  regard it was found out that despite the high cost of IT there is still lower return or business value. This happens due to the mentioned earlier non-optimal use missing synergies, and inadequate facilitation and enforcement for a widespread use. One of the interviewees claimed that some offices were still using computers merely as fast typewriters  5.1.3. Risk Management Risk management requires awareness by senior and operational officers and embedding of risk management responsibilities in the Table 3 Ranked problems seriousness as per survey in the studied organizations Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


organization [10  T h e sur v e y i n d i c a t e s t h a t ge ne r a l l y there is still a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services which is also consistent with earlier studies on IT security matters in the environmen w e v e r, f o r th e v e r y critical an d  country wide systems like Integrated Financial MIS IFMIS\at manages all government expenditures risk management is relatively higher and sometimes exaggerated. The latter is due to the fact that it has a separate physical network within the ministry concerned and across some government offices   5.1.4. Resource Management which ensures optimal investment and the proper management of critical IT resources  y et a n oth e r problem atic area i n t h e  sector. The issue of attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel is still a nightmare to solve, despite some efforts continually made Availability of essential budget for the required IT resources is yet another problem especially for low level staff, in regions and branches. Together with these is the case of fragmented IT initiatives with duplication of efforts and a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale. For example one could find heavy duty printers or photocopiers with capacity to serve many employees or offices only serving a single person or office, thus mostly staying idle. Moreover, there are still some fragmented business applications in the studied organizations  5.1.5. Performance Management that is important for tracking and monitoring strategy and plans implementation and benefits accrued and measured beyond the conventional accounting y et an ot h e r  problematic area. Although there is progress in this direction like the recently use of the balanced scorecard in one of the organizations or metrics embedded in the ministerial strategic plans, the environment generally poses some weaknesses. This again came out strongly in the survey \(Table 3 Others include inadequate follow-up and enforcement on the matters discussed in the IT related committees and meetings. This also indicates that putting IT structures in place is not enough; one should go beyond to implement necessary processes and relational mechanisms to ensure the returns on investme  As indicated earlier, Table 3 presents the ranked problems in the public sector. These results are also comparable to other related studies like those produced by the IT Governance Institut 2 5] an d th e MI T CISR study on 256 organizations worldw ile  there are differences among them like lack of ownership of IT projects, relatively lower acceptance of new IT applications, fragmented IT initiatives and inadequate enforcement mechanisms that hamper the optimal use of the IT resources, there are also similarities. These include staff matters but in this case going further to the staff shortage and inadequate IT skills and competency. Others are weak measurement of IT performance and value to the business, high cost of IT but low ROI and security issues  5.2. Consequences Several studies have indicated possible consequences for not having effective IT Governance in place, in the cases related to public sector in a developing country  22  Bas e d on th es e cas es an d a preli m i n a r y  survey in the public sector, possible consequences were investigated and bundled together as shown in Fig. 6. According to the study results there are serious consequences in the sector that can be detrimental to the effort towards effective IT Governance, and hence improvement in the public service delivery. The most serious problem noted is the difficulty involved in holding individuals accountable for their results Others are ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations, which are obviously outcomes of not having a good IT governance in place where people finds their own solutions, and sometimes take this loophole to misuse the IT resources      Fi g ure 6 Ranked consequences as a result of the survey in the studied organizations  85 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Additionally, there are traditional consequences like IT investment losses, and given the magnitude of systems put in place in these kinds of organizations, they encounter the loss of a lot of money and effort when a project fails to deliver its promises Similarly, there are reputation damages which are also a nasty consequence to such large organizations for example, at a revenue authority if the system that deals with customs clearance or tax payments have some problems and there is no adequate governance that ensures the timely recovery or alternative solution this will be in the news the following day. Knowing the problems and associated consequences will assist the IT decision makers in prioritizing activities and solutions for effective IT governance and consequently the improvement in the public service delivery  6. Conclusions In this paper, based on the analysis of five public organizations, we have described IT Governance current practices, problems encountered and the consequences in the public sector in a developing country. The IT Governance mechanisms, together with key focus and decision areas provided the means for a thorough investigation into the studied environment. The combination of these approaches was found to be useful in uncovering practices of interest in this environment, where on one hand IT resources are scarce and its development and management are relatively less established and on the other hand the use of ICT in providing public services is gaining momentum and several efforts are being made to carry it out successfully. The analysis of IT Governance practices in the studied organizations indicate diverse practices in relation to structures processes and relational mechanisms with notable weakness in the processes where, in contrast with developed world, best practices are rarely applied in most of them It was also noted that improvement on these practices are being done continually, not as a specific IT Governance project but rather as normal improvement to increase the IT contribution to the organizational goals. The analysis revealed a number of problems and their consequences in the organizations. The problems we found are categorized in the IT Governance key focus areas, and are including the lack of a specific IT strategic plan in most of them; lack of business people ownership in ITenabled projects; inadequate or absent ICT policies and procedures; lack of IT Governance awareness and guidelines; inadequate follow-up and enforcement mechanisms; and lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountability. Others problems found are a weak risk-based approach in designing and operating IT related services; attracting and sustaining skilled and competent IT personnel; inadequate budget for required IT resources; fragmented IT initiatives with a loss of synergies and exploitation of the economies of scale; high cost of IT with lower business value; and weak measures of IT performance and value to business In addition, to the problems and challenges in the public sector, several consequences that can be detrimental to the efforts towards effective IT Governance and hence improvements in the public service delivery were also revealed. The most common ones include the difficulty of holding individuals accountable for their results; ad-hoc solutions due to user and management frustrations; and traditional consequences like IT investment losses and damage to the reputation of the organization in question  References  T GI En terpris e Value: Gov e rn a n ce of IT Investments, The Val IT Framework, 2006. Retrieved from  www.itgi.org   P e terson R. R., In teg r ation Strateg ie s an d T a ctics for IT Governance, In W. Van Grembergen \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   arav adi C  S  D i g i tal repos itories  f o r egovernment, E-Government, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2005 pp.205-218   Gre m berg e n W., De Haes S Gulden tops   E. Structures, processes and relational mechanisms for IT governance. In Van Grembergen W. \(Ed Strategies for Information Technology Governance Hershey, PA: Idea Group Publishing, 2003   e ill, P    Ross, J  W  IT Gov e rn an ce Ho w T op Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results, Harvard Business School Press, 2004   T a n zan ia Nation al IC T  P o licy  A v ai lable at  www.tanzania.go.tz/pdf/ictpolicy.pdf, 2003. Last accessed, June 2008   dou V  eG o v e rnm ent for D e v e l opi n g  C oun t r i e s  Opportunities and Challenges. The Electronic Journal on IS in Developing Countries \(EJISDC\, 2004  8  B a ka r i  J  B  A ho l i s t i c  A p p r o a c h fo r M a na gi ng I C T  Security in Non-Commercial Organizations: A case in a developing country, Doctoral Thesis, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


 Grem berg e n W  De Haes S. I m ple m e n ti ng Information Technology Governance: Models Practices and Cases. IGI Publishing, 2008   T G I. Boa rd b r ief i ng on  IT g o v e rn an ce \(2 nd ed 2003.  Retrieved from www.itgi.org on May 2008   T R A  A bout T a n zan ia Rev e nu e Au t h orit y  T R A   and related statistics in the case study, www.tra.go.tz 2008. Last accessed May 2008   MS D. A bou t Medical S t ores Departm e n t MS D   and related statistics in the case study, www.msd.or.tz 2008. Last accessed, May 2008   PMOR AL G A bou t Prim e Minis t er s Office Regional Authority and Local Government \(PMORALG\d related statistics in the case study www.pmoralg.go.tz, 2008, Last accessed May 2008   O P SM. A bou t P r eside n t O f f i ce, P u blic Services  Management \(PO-PSM\d related statistics in the case study, www.utumishi.go.tz, 2008. Accessed 2008   o F E A 2008 A bou t  Mi n i s t r y of Fi n a n c e an d  Economic Affairs \(MoFEA\d related statistics in the case study, www.mof.go.tz. Last accessed May 2008   ers, Mich ae l D. "Qu alitat iv e Researc h i n  Information Systems," MIS Quarterly, Vol. 21, No. 2 1997, pp. 241-242    R   C a s e  S t u d y res e arch des i g n an d m e t h ods   third edition. Sage Publications, 2003   Peters on R  R  C r afting I T Gov e rn an ce f o r toda y s turbulent environment, Information Systems Management, Vol. 21 No.4, 2004, pp.7-21  19 N f uka E  N   R u s u  L  M a na ge me n t o f I T enabled change in a public organization in Tanzania Int. J. Information Systems and Change Management Vol.2, No.4, 2007, pp. 334-349, Inderscience Publishers  20 O G C B e s t M a n a g e m e n t P r a c t i c e i n I T S e r v i c e  Management \(ITIL\ and Project Management PRINCE2\008, retrieved from www.bestmanagement-practice.com on August, 2008   R Norton D T h e balan ced s c orecard Measures that drive performance. Harvard Business Review, 1992, 70\(1\71-79   a y a y a S  G  A  s t u d y  of t h e poten tia l u s a g e o f  ICT \(E-government\ in improving efficiency and effectiveness of executive functions of the government including delivery of Public Services Case of Tanzania. A dissertation for degree of MEM at UDSM, 2003   u pan g k a t, S  H R a hm a t B S e m b iring J. IT  Governance for Developing Countries. School of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, Institute of Technology Bandung. Engage Indonesia, 2006   T GI PWC  IT Gov e rn an ce Gl obal St at us Report, 2006. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   T G I  PWC  I T Go v e rn a n ce Global S t at us Report, 2008. Retrieved from www.itgi.org   i bbers P.M.A P e ters o n  R  R P a rk er, M.M Designing IT governance processes: Diagnosing contemporary practices and competing theories Proceedings of the 35 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS   e, R  19 95  T h e art of cas e res e arch  Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


