Development of Reprogrammable High Frame-Rate Detector Devices for Laser Communication Pointing Acquisition and Tracking Terita Norton Kenneth Conner Richard Covington Hung Ngo and Christine Rink The Aerospace Corporation 2350 E El Segundo Blvd M/S M4-993 El Segundo CA 90245 Terita.R.Norton\(aero.org Kenneth.A.Conner 
aero.org Richard.A.Covingtongaero.org Hung.Ngogaero.org Christine.RinkWaero.org Abstract A Two Terminal Laser Communication Test Bed has been 
developed at The Aerospace Corporation This paper presents the design and preliminary results of a reprogrammable detector within the Test Bed for use in pointing acquisition and tracking between a Satellite-toSatellite Laser Communication link The detector may be commanded by an emulated spacecraft Command  Data Handling subsystem to switch between full-array scanning 
and small sized N x M pixel Field of View FOV for high-rate laser tracking The approach follows a parallel path to implement the signal processing algorithm on two different hardware resources a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and a Digital Signal Processor DSP The focus of this effort is to present a methodology for testing 
and evaluating various techniques for advanced focal plane array FPA hardware as well as sensor FPA control image processing and laser beam X  Y position algorithms.12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION  1 2 DEFINITION OF THE CENTRIOD ALGORITHM 2 3 LASER COMMUNICATION TEST BED 
2 4 FPGA DETECTOR 
ARCHITECTURE  
SYSTEM.2 4.1 FPA SENSOR  3 4.2 CONFIGURATION STATUS.3 4.3 CENTROID CALCULATION...........................3 4.4 PC INTERFACE  4 5 DSP DETECTOR SYSTEM 4 6 DETECTOR EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS...........5 6.1 COMPUTER SIMULATION  5 6.2 LASER POINTER TEST  5 6.3 DETECTOR TEST BED TESTS  5 7 CONCLUSION  
6 REFERENCES 6 BIOGRAPHY 7 1 INTRODUCTION Several space based communication systems have investigated laser based communication links between a satellite and another satellite or a high flying aircraft These systems include European Space Agency's ESA Artemis Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency's JAXA OICETs and the Department of Defense's DoD TSAT 6 Laserbased communication systems 
offer greater capabilities than RF systems but present greater challenges in implementation One such challenge involves the difficulty of acquiring and tracking a concentrated beam of laser light arriving from another platform across the far reach of space 1 This development is follow-on to work that began in 2002 in support of The Aerospace Corporation's 
Laser Communication Corporate Strategic Initiative CSI 4 It will enhance the capability to evaluate and optimize  1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 
IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1414 Version 3 Updated October 31 2007 advanced FPA processing electronics image processing and sensor positioning control algorithms and hardware characterizations for upcoming programs such as 1 


Figure5yM m Sh 364..t.tsU u.;~~.Figur 3 V.iVSE jv wIj=l i=l ml I P i Va J XCentroid  Val J K m nl K F zeIix Val Y Centroid  K Figure 2 Detectors Terminal 2 Terminal I Transformational Communications MILSATCOM TCM This development will also automate the laser acquisition and tracking process by simulating the link between two satellite terminals located 80,000 kilometers apart To accomplish this link Focal Plane Array FPA advanced processing electronics was created The first implementation contains a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA based detector system connected to a focal plane array FPA operating in the visible spectrum The second implementation consists of a DSP which will perform the pixel processing algorithms and a low-cost FPGA to function as the FPA controller FPGAs were chosen for their inherent high speed processing capability low power consumption and rapid re-programmability for iterative algorithm development evaluation and modification as well as the ease of integrating them with other electronic components DSPs were selected for evaluating more computationally intensive algorithms unsupported by FPGA technology Section 2 defines and describes the centroid algorithm Section 3 describes the architecture and components of the laser communication test bed Section 4 describes the hardware detector system Section 5 discusses some detector experiments and results Section 6 provides concluding remarks and future work 2 DEFINITION AND REQUIREMENT OF CENTROID ALGORITHM Establishing a laser communication link between two spacecraft terminals requires a laser pointing scheme that consists of detector hardware to perform an acquisition and tracking process that allows the two terminals to lock onto one another To establish this communication an imageprocessing algorithm is used This algorithm contains a user-programmable threshold that enables the detection of the laser light impinging on the Focal Plane Array FPA and the subsequent calculation of the X and Y Cartesian coordinates of the laser light's centroid The centroid algorithm has been implemented as a weighted average similar to the calculation of the center of mass with the mass being the photon count Where K 1 m number of rows n number of columns Data Handling system to switch between full-array scanning medium sized and small sized n x m pixel Windows of Interest WOI for high-rate laser tracking The Two Terminal Laser Communication Test Bed contains approximately sixty components including visible lasers fast and coarse steering mirrors lenses beam splitters custom-built FPA-based optical detectors and a far field simulator that emulates the performance of laser terminals mounted on two geosynchronous satellites The laser beam on terminal 1 scans the uncertainty zone while the terminal 2 detector stares for a laser hit The high rate processing of the detectors serve to establish an optically closed loop 3 TEST BED ARCHITECTURE The Two Terminal Laser Communications Test Bed is sensor implementations Figure 4 reveals the concept in which design elements common to both platforms on field programmable gate array FPGA and/or digital signal processor DSP technologies The detector may be commanded by an emulated spacecraft Command  4 FPGA DETECTOR SYSTEM To facilitate rapid hardware design a single FPGA development platform was utilized to support both are shown in 2 a rapid prototyping environment suitable for the development of high frame-rate focal plane array FPA detector systems based 


Sontrol Add 1  Statuw Dat1 Og POR Clk 00 POR Clk i  E\(1O Addo1 2 Control3 Dat Controls 4Addr\(l O Status Data\(l 16 LED\(1 O Addr\(12 Controls\(3 6 Addr\(22 Controls\(7 IData64 IPGA Block no changel IFPGA Block nminior changes DISP Block new Figure 4 4.1 FPA Sensor The FPA sensor is a Micron MT9M4 13 CMOS digital image sensor capable of 500 frames-per second fps operation with an array size of 1,280H x 1,024V 1.3 mega pixel The Micron sensor can be operated in one of four modes 1 TrueSNAP freeze-frame electronic shutter 2 Electronic Rolling Shutter 3 TrueSNAP Simultaneous Mode 4 TrueSNAP Sequential Mode gold colored blocks while functions unique to the DSP implementation are illustrated in green and blue The Centroid Calculation Algorithm CCA block illustrated in figure 4 appears in both implementations For the DSP implementation the CCA function is disabled however data manipulation circuits within the block remain operational This development will only make use of the TrueSNAP sequential mode In sequential mode the control signals PG N and TX_N are exercised to control the integration time This is followed by digitization and readout of the frame The FPA sensor operates at 33MHz which is equivalent to 4 ptsec readout per row 4.2 Configuration Status The Configuration and status register CSR block contains configuration and status information available to the dSpace software In the case of the DSP detector system the CSR is accessible to both dSpace and the DSP development board Additional CSR registers include mode of operation threshold value and centroid X coordinate XBar and centroid Y coordinate YBar spot intensity operational status and pixel data array characteristics row address column address and pixel data The Detector may be configured in Hold Mode ROI Mode and AUTOMAN Mode When Hold Mode is asserted the Detector is prevented from updating centroid or pixel data information because the user is reading from memory In AUTOMAN Mode the Detector autonomously controls the switching between a given Region of Interest ROI dependent on the results of the most recent centroid calculation When the detector is configured to be in ROI Mode it is preset to Full Field of View FFOV Medium Field of View MFOV or Small Field of View SFOV The Full FOV is defined as the largest area on the FPA and is the initial start-up mode of operation This ROI also has an integration time of 40 msec with a 4 msec readout rate and 25 frames per second The Medium FOV is defined as 256 rows centered about the center row and has an integration time of lmsec with lmsec readout and 1000 frames per second Lastly the Small FOV is defined as 25 rows centered about the center row and has an integration time of 100 ptsec with 100 ptsec readout and 10000 frames per second The Threshold value is used by the centroid calculation to determine which pixel's energy is high enough to be used in the X and Y centroid calculation The threshold is programmed by the user but is initialized to 0x200 XBar is the centroid position along the X coordinate or row number while the YBar is the centroid position along the Y coordinate or column number Spot Intensity is the summation of all the pixel values above the threshold The values for XBar YBar and Spot Intensity are updated every frame The Operation Status register outputs the ROI location of the centroid coordinate 4.3 Centroid Calculation The FPGA Detector processing hardware receives the pixel 3 INNAAMMMOOMM 


ht 14:2 AA XBaa r\(lVld P8fstiml 1 0 Seia Di 0  A Pyum 1 1 A Ps mT-D P w ADSP 1S201S M7f  BOOT FFTE  I E PROM POR OPW TIONAL LOCK SCLK V aCL KAT2-O ADDR RFRNE sCLF 0OE DATA REFEREN E REF D~RSM MEORY i DRAM DAT  tl DTA OPTIOAL ID24  a block diagram of the centroid calculation algorithm Figure 6 illustrates the single processor configuration The shared bus connected FPGA coprocessor performs image acquisition data formatting and threshold functions Figure 7 4 WrO 0 P Whrl 4 B _ fD i PSumO\(2&0 PYSumO\(37:0 PXSumG\(37.,O AD H PROCESSOR CoD TO OPN D~~~~MRA DCE CKE FwSbiKg 1-1 im DnU 1 1DATA  lOA LDCLEOJFRDh RlE Fi g|LKOUre 6.PTI LINK L-btC F NRF Vw ADR ODO K R R ACK DQM ILD OM ORT M _ 1 u g/ti\247~~W 31:0 aA>B t fa 0l1 Q_ 4Ay 1 Figure 5 data via the FPA interface and stores only those pixels greater than the predetermined threshold The FPGA then calculates the XBar and YBar values based   PixelCount\(20-;0t Wr9 1 Staqe3 Stage3 Pxsu fT9-o ASerial-Divider PY;suml tCLK US EiEFU:4 a software system developed in Matlab and C that emulates the spacecraft Command  Data Handling system The dSpace real-time system communicates asynchronously with the Detector system via a 50-pin ribbon cable 5 DSP DETECTOR SYSTEM Analog Devices Incorporated ADI TS20 1S DSP PStSM9 9 on the centroid equation shown in Figure 2 The total spot intensity is also calculated by the FPGA This data is then available for retrieval by the spacecraft Command  Data Handling system within dSpace 4.4 PC Interface The dSpace software command and control system is Div EN Q 1t  f l~~~0 n tensity\(30,O l1 5 EI4V  UAX LAXI1NJ 11 P"MAW I L:xC hTKENP i L 11 ACKI Figure 6 was selected for the DSP detector implementation Features include 128-bit internal bus widths 24M bits of on-chip DRAM integrated I/0 peripherals DMA controller and shared bus connectivity for glueless multiprocessing ADI's TS-20 1 EZ-KIT Lite development board was utilized for the DSP implementation due to its dual processor configuration that includes connectorized access to the 64-bit shared data bus Expansion Interface capable of supporting transfers rates approaching 6.4-Gbps Figure 5 displays 


Communication between FPGA and DSP is accomplished cX015D acimal  349 45035 ns dspacce Read 0Si 01 OS OxO190 decimal  25 453105 ns dspace Read OOO2 Total Interisty 0  Ox40 decimal  19056 7455025 sdopace Read M00M Detector status  OxObOO dec-ma  0 d-------Reaiilg Added Test Registert t  7463545 ns dspace ead x010 start ROW Address  Ox00 deciral  0  466265 rs dSpCe Rea OxOll End RtO Adress 0=0000 decima  0 468985 ns lpace Rea 0012 c Threshold calue OxlOO deimal  ns dspace Recad OA c Piel Data  O-x280,e ROW 348 Col  23 Val 73 Figure 9 Figure 8 Figure 10 were incorporated into the VHDL code whose outputs on the FPA When the laser is detected on locations 4 5 was integrated into the Two Terminal Laser Communication Test Bed To help facilitate this test functions were developed to generate laser spot data for both detector implementations 6 DETECTOR EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS A number of tests were conducted both in hardware and software to verify and evaluate the accuracy of the FPGA Detector System The DSP Detector system will be verified in similar fashion upon completion of development 6.1 Computer Simulation VHDL test benches  62  was developed in Matlab Script files ensure proper functionality of the FPGA Detector before it O 1 485305 n[s dspaCe Read 0x018 Avferage Pixel vWalue  GX{i02FA decl,Diml 40005 ds space Read 001 Detector ormmand A  000007 ecima a 0 74 dXP017D t Ot 10 0  Ox0019 decinal 25 7474425 256 a 410 Space REA OX013 Pixel Tally Coun t 0 7 a dSpace model The test directives included Row Column Intensity Row Column Radius Frame Number and Expected Centroid The FPA model used the directives to emulate light 174571 ns space cad ORe 15 Total Intensity 1  boOb0O decmal were laser location ROI indicator and average spot intensity Figure 10 shows were created in Modelsim to verify the functionality of the FPGA Detector prior to programming the FPGA Hardware The test bench contained test directives 1 482585 ns dISpalce Read DxMf etector Startus 1  0:0001 decimal an interrupt request The DSP responds to the interrupt request by configuring a DMA transfer DMA completion is indicated by an interrupt request that points to the centroid computation code XBar YBar and spot intensity are then calculated Algorithmic results are then DMA transferred to the FPGA The Program Code flowchart is illustrated in figure 7 The DSP based Detector is shown in figure 8 Data for DSP and FPGA algorithm testing an average intensity greater than 512 128 and 9 pixels respectively 5 t 2uL 1 s t~c i 1a S l~t t g-s S0Ltyl d f 7445375 ns calculaticon of xbar  ybar is completed A LED Display cenrold quadrant  2 iull-Fov0 Average Ietnsrity 76 A a block diagram of the external representation of the FPGA Detector System The row/column grid indicates the laser location Readi1nig dlspace Registers 441665 ls dSpace Read 0000 X-POS Reabdi nig Pi Xel Data  7493025 ns dspace Rcad 00 Pixe1 c ata  0 5EE  7495745 as being in the MFOV and illuminated the MFOV LED Lastly the last three locations 0 ns dspace Read x01 Pel Taaly coult C  oxoooo decimal across the DSP expansion Interface bus Data is available for transfer when the FPGA issues an FPA model and source and perform FPA timing The dSpace model read the X Y position after each frame and performed dSpace timing Figure 9 shows a simulation transcript where 25 data points or pixels were detected by the FPGA and used to calculate the X and Y centroid average spot intensity and total spot intensity The simulation also provides debug capabilities by outputting the ROI mode and which quadrant of the 3x3 LED Display the spot is detected 6.2 Laser Pointer Test A hardware verification test using a laser pointer was developed to were displayed via LED displays These functions or 6 in the 3x3 grid the detector identified these on the Bar LED indicate 


400 300 200 100 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 Laser Voltage V Figure 11 Tl S-ufmato of PixeI Intenslity Sampled  KHz7 6.3 Detector Test Bed Tests A number of verification test cases were developed to evaluate the detector system's perform once integrated with the dSpace software executive These test cases include but are not limited to Power Threshold Readout Noise and Frame Rate The Power Threshold test evaluates the lower and upper if any power limit on the detector using a laser in the full field of view FFOV and medium field of view MFOV This test was conducted with a cold and warm start The laser was switched from full power to zero power and then from zero power to full power The laser voltage threshold necessary to record the centroid while overcoming all readout noise effects was measured at 0.876 V This is shown in Figure 11 The Readout Noise test was used to determine the baseline readout noise of the detector Initial test results for the Readout Noise test is shown in Figure 12 The Frame Rate test was used to test the actual frames per second fps of the detector for the FFOV and SFOV with the output coming from the dSpace software 7 CONCLUSION The Aerospace Two Terminal Laser Communications Test Bed provides the capability to effectively support and lead the modeling simulation and analysis efforts for various electro-optics and laser communication programs The FPGA Detector system design development and test were completed which included algorithm capabilities to detect and track the region of interest in which a laser is detected The DSP Detector system as of the writing of this paper is under development Follow-on work for this effort includes creating a custom interface PCB that will allow us to readout every pixel on the FPA sensor This enhancement will give us the capability to run a Bad Pixel Map test to determine if there are any defective pixel locations on the FPA sensor and to remove the Bad Pixels and the effects there or in the centroid calculations ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Research was conducted under an Internal Research and Development IRAD grant from the Engineering and Technology Group of The Aerospace Corporation The authors would like to thank the Electromechanical Controls Department of The Aerospace Corporation REFERENCES 1 John Maksyomwicz and Kenneth Conner Research Horizons Laser Beam Acquisition and Tracking Crosslink Ground Systems Volume 7 Number 1 Spring 2006 pp 43 2 S Monacos A Portillo W Liu J Alexander and G Ortiz A High Frame Rate CCD Camera with Region of Interest Capability 2001 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings Vol 3 March 10-13 2001 pp 1513 1521 3 A Portillo G Ortiz and C Rancho Fine Pointing Control for Optical Communications 2001 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings Vol 3 March 10-13 2001 pp 1541-1550 4 P Zomkowski J Maksyomwicz and K Conner Test Bed for Analyzing High Frame Rate Devices with Reprogrammable Capabilities AIAA2004 Guidance Navigation and Control Conference and Exhibit August 16-19 2004 5 S Monacos R Lam A Portillo G Ortiz Design of an event driven random access windowing CCDbased camera in Free-Space Laser Communication Technologies XV Proceedings of the SPIE Vol 4975 2003 6 C Hindman S Lacy and N Hatten Image Based Acquisition and Tracking for Multi-Access Laser Communications 2006 IEEE Aerospace Conference March 4-11 2006 pp 1-10 6 Dl 964II 958 9440 238 Samples Power Threshold Threshold 120 600 Full FOV 500 X  xi0 Figure 12 


BIOGRAPHY Terita Norton is a Senior Member of Technical Staff in the Digital and Integrated Circuit Electronics Department at The Aerospace Corporation in El Segundo California She supports design modeling and analysis of FPGAs and ASICs for various programs She received her B.S and MS in Electrical Engineering from Florida State University in 2000 and 2002 respectively Her current area of interest is in digital electronics communications and space systems engineering Kenneth Conner is a Laboratory Associate in the Digital and Integrated Circuit Electronics Department at The Aerospace Corporation He completed eight years service in the US Marine Corps as an Avionics Systems Technician on the McDonnell Douglas F-4S Phantom and A-4M Skyhawk aircraft Kenny currently performs schematic capture circuit simulation printed circuit board design layout and prototyping for numerous customers He is currently a senior at California State University Long Beach majoring in electrical engineering Circuit Electronics Department She supports the design and analysis of FPGAs ASICs and digital units for various programs Richard Covington is the Director of the Digital  Integrated Circuit Electronics Department at The Aerospace Corporation in El Segundo California He received a BS in Electrical Engineering and BS in Computer Science from the University of Colorado in 1981 Boulder and a MS in Computer Engineering from University of Southern California in 1993 His primary areas of expertise are Digital  Electronic Design/Architecture Computer Design/Architecture  Digital Systems Engineering All trademarks service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners Hung Ngo graduated the University of California Los Angeles UCLA in 1984 with a B.S in Electrical Engineering He received an M.S degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Southern California USC in 1994 Hung joined The Aerospace Corporation in 2006 as an Engineering Specialist in the Digital and Integrated Circuit Electronics Department He supports all aspects of digital system development from system level development to detail FPGAIASIC design Christine Rink received her B.S in Biomedical Engineering and Electrical Engineering 1997 and M.SlE.E 2001 from the University of Southern California She is currently an Engineering Specialist at The Aerospace Corporation in the Digital and Integrated 7 


  8 system in EOC software devel opment.  One screen is used to display the main page of the Monitor and Control System GUI, and the other screen shows the GUI query page and xterm consoles of other nodes in the EOC.  Figure 6 is an example shot of the main GUI page. In the page, either an existing experiment name or a new experiment name is selected for executing operati ons.  There are 11 tables on the page which display live messages respectively received from DINET nodes.  The message display is started by selecting the \223start/update\224 button and temporarily paused by  selecting the \223Pause\224 button.  Moreover, all messages received and stored in the database can be dumped into a text file as the \223save\224 button is selected and a file name is entered. The top and middle of the page shows the network topology which is updated dynamically as the network connectivity changes  Figure 6 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI main page Figure 7 shows an example of the GUI query page.  In order to query the messages stored in the database, an experiment name is specified along with \(optionally\essage type message source node, number of messages, message creation time, and then the \223query\224 button is clicked.  The messages stored in the data which meet the query criterion are shown on the table of the query page, and those resultant messages can also be dumped into a text file by clicking the \223save\224 button and entering a file name.  The table content and topology display on both web GUI page are locally and dynamically updated without interfering with the display of the main page by the use of Ajax and Java servlet techniques 


  9 Figure 7 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI query page 4  DINET  R ESULTS  The Experiment Operations Center allowed real-time visibility into and analysis of DTN behavior in a deep space system during the DINET experiment.  With the results gathered from the operations cen ter software, an analysis was performed on the experime nt outcome characterizing the overall performance of DTN From a broad perspective, the experiment was a success in that it proved the ION software capable of space mission operation and raised the technology readiness level to that of a tested and flown software package.  The DTN concept proved capable of automatically re-transmitting missing or corrupt data without flight team intervention, specifically demonstrated during several small unplanned communications outages at DSN stations.  DTN management actions were requi red to update the ION clock aboard EPOXI on a semiweekly basis to compensate for a drifting spacecraft clock, as well as insert new routes after an unplanned power outage across the EOC network Experiment analysis yielded DTN performance benchmarks in link utilization, prioritizati on, node storage and routing For all passes with sufficient data in the transmission queue DINET maintained a link utilization rate over 90%, even when introducing artificial link errors by dropping approximately every 32 nd LTP segment.  Received data analysis confirmed that higher priority information maintained an advantage over lower priority information and also that this advantag e increased as link capacity diminished \(due to the artificial data loss on the link\.  The node storage utilization benc hmark provided proof that node storage usage stabilized over the course of the experiment, approaching steadystate.  An analysis of network traversal showed that data was efficiently moved through different paths as dictated by the ION routing algorithm when the network topology changed. This demonstrated the advantages of the routing automation afforded by the ION routing protocol 5  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper has briefly described the JPL Deep Impact Network \(DINET\ay/Disruption Networking \(DTN technology experiment, intended to increase the technical readiness DTN for space missions and supporting ground and space-based relay infrastruct ure.  This represents the first deep space implementation of DTN in flight and ground software, and paves the way for future space networks.  DINET demonstrated the Interplanetary Overlay Network \(ION\mplementation of DTN, which incorporates the Bundle Protocol and LTP retransmission protocol.  We have described the DINET Experiment Operations Center \(EOC its functions in accomplishing this experiment.  The DINET EOC starts all ION processes experiment data sources, stat us message receiver processes and display processes.  The ION-based Monitor and Control System is an innovative, intranet-based software application which receives status messages and displays live results from the DINET network.  With this Monitor and Control application, the ION software and protocol diagnostic messages issued by network nodes are collected, analyzed stored into a database in real-time.  This application also provides a web interface for viewing the data in real-time and for interactive database queries 6  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology and the Nationa l Aeronautics and Space Administration 


  10 R EFERENCES   Selected Areas in Com m unications, IEEE Journal on Volume 26, Issue 5, June 2008. The eight papers in this special issue focus on delay and disruption tolerant wireless communication   Draft  C C S DS SIS-DTN Green B ook v0.2 \(5 Sept em ber 2008 DTN/Draft%20Documents/SISDTN%20Green%20Book_v0.2.docx   V Cerf. et al., Delay To lerant Network Architecture IETF RFC 4838, informational, April 2007   Del a y Tol e rant  Net worki ng R e search Group \(DTNR G wiki: http://www.dtnrg.org/wiki/Home  S. Burleigh, \223Delay-Toler ant Networking for Space Flight Operations: Design and Development,\224 paper AIAA2008-3221, SpaceOps, 12-16 May 2008, Heidelberg Germany  K. Scot t and S B u rl ei gh 223B undl e Prot ocol  Speci fi cat i on,\224 RFC5050, experimental, November 2007   M  R a m a das S. B u rl ei gh, and S. Farrel l 223Li c kl i d er Transmission Protocol \226 Specification,\224 RFC 5326 experimental, September 2008  223Asy nchronous M e ssage Servi ce,\224 C C SDS Draft  Recommended Standard \(Red Book\CSDS 735.1-R-2 July 2008 


  11 B IOGRAPHY  J. Leigh Torgerson  leads  development and operation of spacecraft systems, with emphasis on end-to-end communications system technology.  He has over 25 years of experience in team management, aerospace system design, digital & RF electronic system integration and flight test.  He has been with Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1992, and is currently a member of the Communications Networks Group.  He obtained an M.S. in Aeronautical System Engineering from the University of West Florida, and an B.S. in Engineering, EE/CS emphasis from UCLA    Loren Clare  is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He obtained the Ph.D. in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983. His research interests include wireless communications protocols, self-organizing systems, network systems design, modeling and analysis, and distributed control systems. Prior to joining JPL in May 2000, he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center, where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks, satellite networking, and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation  Shin-Ywan \(Cindy  is a senior member of the Communications Networks Group at JPL. She has over 20 years experience in technology development system analysis, and software engineering in the fields of document image processing mission scenario and operation analysis, and telecommunications. Cindy\222s recent work supports the development of Monitor and Control Systems for DTN experiments, link budget analysis for the Constellation program\222s DSIL SCaN simulation/emulation and TFPC Telecom Forecaster Predictor C, and Remote Asynchronous Message Service \(RAMS\ for the AMS protocol.  She has a B.S. in Electronics Engineering from National ChiaoTung University, Taiwan, and M.S and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Irvine      Joshua Schoolcraft  is an engineer in the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He currently runs the Protocol Technology Laboratory and coordinates software configuration and development on projects involving protocol characterization and DTN He obtained a B.S. in electrical engineering and computer engineering \(with a CS minor\ from the University of Maine in 2005 and is currently a part-time graduate student in Aeronautical & Astronautical engineering at Stanford University  


  12  


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


