QuakeSim Efficient Modeling of Sensor Web Data in a Web Services Environment Andrea Donnellan Jay Parker Robert Granat Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 818-354-4737 Andrea.Donnellangjpl.nasa.gov Geoffrey Fox and Marlon Pierce Community Grids Laboratory Indiana University 
501 N Morton Suite 224 Bloomington IN 47404 John Rundle Department of Physics University of California Davis One Shields Avenue Davis CA 95616 Dennis McLeod and Rami Al-Ghanmi University of Southern California Mail Code 0781,3651 Trousdale Parkway Los Angeles CA 90089 Lisa Grant University of California Irvine Irvine 
CA 92697 Walter Brooks NASA Ames Research Center Moffett Field CA 94035 Abstract QuakeSim is a project to develop a modeling environment for studying earthquake processes using a web services environment In order to model interseismic processes multiple data types must be ingested including spaceborne GPS and InSAR data 
geological fault data and seismicity data QuakeSim federates data from these multiple sources and integrates the databases with modeling applications Because the models are complex and compute intensive we are using the Columbia computer located at NASA Ames to integrate and run software programs to improve our 
understanding of the solid Earth and earthquake processes The complementary software programs are used to simulate interacting earthquake fault systems model nucleation and slip on faults and calculate run-up and inundation from tsunamis generated by offshore earthquakes QuakeSim also applies pattern recognition techniques to real and simulated data 
to elucidate subtle features in the processes 1 2 1 1 1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 
IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1224 Version 5 Updated November 29 2007 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION  1 2 DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING INFRASTRUCTURE  3 3 QUAKETABLES DATABASE  4 4 
APPLICATIONS  6 5 CONCLUSIONS  9 6 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  9 REFERENCES  9 BIOGRAPHIES  10 1 INTRODUCTION We are expanding the development of our QuakeSim Web Services environment to integrate both real-time and archival sensor data with high-performance computing applications for data 
mining and assimilation The goal of this work is to substantially improve earthquake forecasts which will ultimately lead to mitigation of damage from this natural hazard We are federating sensor data sources with a focus on InSAR and GPS data for an improved modeling environment for forecasting earthquakes 1 


Figure 1 Example of the QuakeSim portal Users can access the QuakeTables database and ingest the data into various modeling and visualization applications Improved earthquake forecasting is dependent on measurement of surface deformation as well as analysis of geological and seismological data Space-borne technologies in the form of continuous GPS networks and InSAR satellites are the key contributors to measuring surface deformation These disparate measurements form a complex sensor web in which data must be integrated into comprehensive multi-scale models In order to account for the complexity of modeled fault systems investigations must be carried out on high-performance computers The QuakeSim applications GeoFEST and Virtual California are the key applications for modeling fault systems GeoFEST and its supporting software provide a suite of tools for creating and refining finite element meshes than can be used to calculate very detailed seismic deformations associated with individual faults and small fault systems At a large scale Virtual California has been developed to perform simulations of large interacting fault systems i.e the entire western U.S over hundreds of years Both applications have been ported to and are being optimized for running in parallel on Columbia Both applications are key interpreting surface deformation data from planned InSAR missions for understanding underlying fault properties and interaction Work here will lay the groundwork for NASA's planned Dynamics Ecosystem Structure and Dynamics of Ice DESDynI mission with a target launch date of 2014 The mission will produce a minimum of 650 GB of data per day If data downlink bandwidth limitations are overcome raw data production will be greater than 1 TB/day The sheer volumes of data will require routine automated data processing on supercomputers Data and products must be transported to and from the supercomputing resources and distributed for further processing and analysis QuakeSim is intended to establish infrastructure for the upcoming DESDynI mission as well as other potential missions We are building upon our Grid of Grids approach which includes the development of extensive Geographical Information System based Data Grid services We are extending our earlier approach of integrating the Data Grid components with improved Execution Grid services to interact with high-end computing resources Our first targets for deploying these services are the Columbia computer at NASA Ames and the Cosmos computer cluster at JPL One of the key issues in this project is the utilization and representation of streaming InSAR and GPS data A federated ontology is being developed to semantically represent GPS data and manage its availability via real-time streaming data services As part of the development process multiple GPS data representations and data access services are currently being examined An Application Programming Interface API is used to interface users with the data represented by the ontology This API is part of the QuakeSim portal Scientists are able to perform queries at different levels of abstraction and run simulations of the data obtained from QuakeSim The communication between QuakeTables and the federated ontology is managed through a middleware API 2 


Figure 2 Examples from the portal version 2.0 showing improved richness of interfaces including the available QuakeSim applications Google Maps output of surface deformation from the Disloc application and an example mesh with embedded fault generated from the portlet 2 DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING INFRASTRUCTURE QuakeSim s current distributed computing infrastructure consists of Web services interacting with a clients in a component-based Web portal Figure 1 The Web services provide access to data particularly fault models and application codes through well-defined programming interfaces expressed in WSDL The QuakeSim portal is a graphical user interface that provides the following capabilities 1 Allows the user to couple databases with simulation codes This is typically done in the input file creation process in which users select desired fault models that will be used in the simulation from our fault database GPS data sources are also supported 2 Assists users with setting up the complicated input files used by the codes 3 Allows the user to track the progress of running jobs 4 Allows the user to do simple plotting to inspect results such as finite element meshes and calculated surface stresses 5 Allows the user to create and manage archives of jobs by storing metadata all parameters used times submitted simple text descriptions generated by the user's interactions with the portal This allows the user to know exactly how a particular results was obtained and to quickly modify and resubmit it if desired 6 Allows the user to download output files created by a particular run We recently released version 2.0 of the QuakeSim portal We use the JSR 168 portlet-complian GridSphere container which is a popular product in the science gateway community GridSphere enables developers to quickly develop and package third-party portlet web applications that can be run and administered within the GridSphere portlet container It is used by the Open Grid Computing Environment Project the Scripps GPS Explorer portal and many TeraGrid Science Gateways All portlets are developed using Java Server Faces JSF QuakeSim 2.0 has improved the richness of interfaces Figure 2 We make use of Google Maps YUI JavaScript Libraries and BFO Plotting libraries for meshes The service architecture we have adopted is useful for running relatively small simulation problems but will need major enhancements to interact securely with the batch schedulers used by Columbia and other high-end supercomputers Rather than developing this from scratch we are integrating our approach with the Globus toolkit and services The classic grid is Globus used by the National Science Foundation TerraGrid and Open Science Grid http://www.globus.org The Globus Toolkit is an open source software toolkit for building Grid systems and applications The Grid allows people to share computing power applications and databases across boundaries without sacrificing local autonomy Globus provides the following relevant to QuakeSim 3 


Figure 3 Example output on a search from the QuakeTables database  A secure remote execution and job management service GRAM that has bindings to several queuing systems PBS LSF LoadLeveler etc  Remote file management and file transfer GridFTP  Information services MDS  A single sign-on security environment GSI that enables limited delegation useful for example in GridFTP third-party file transfers and  A client programming API the Java COG Kit for its services The Java COG has been used by the QuakeSim portal and related projects to provide access to the NSF TeraGrid Adopting Globus will provide several important features missing from the current command-line based system The COG provides a rich client development environment that allows us to build graphical user interfaces as well as command line tools The COG also supports the creation of graph-based workflows for chaining together several operations The GRAM service supports multiple scheduling/queuing systems and provides an API for programmatically creating batch scripts that is independent of the queuing system GridFTP supports third-party transfers in addition to uploads and downloads This allows us to directly transfer files between two backend computers from a portal server Globus provides optional information services MDS that can be used to access machine information that can be displayed to the user or used internally to assist with job submission decisions Globus services can be used to set up cross-realm authentication For example services running at NASA JPL can be configured to accept user credentials signed by the NASA ARC Certificate Authority We can take advantage of numerous external projects such as Kepler and Condor-G for workflow composition and high throughput computing 3 QUAKETABLES DATABASE The QuakeTables database is part of the QuakeSim environment Figure 3 Currently QuakeTables houses paleoseismic and fault data that can be ingested into QuakeSim applications We are expanding the database to include GPS velocities and interferograms processed from Synthetic Aperture Radar data It is a challenge to convert data particulary those collected and reported by a variety of means into standard data for modeling applications In QuakeSim applications we model fault activity such as rate of strain accumulation or offset related to earthquakes over a finite fault segment Therefore the modeler is interested in the general fault characteristics such as geometry and average rate of slip with an associated uncertainty Paleoseismic data and results are typically reported in scientific publications and there is no standard format or method for this reporting Typically a geologist digs a trench across a fault and looks for disrupted layers and carbon samples within these disrupted layers The samples are carbon dated and ultimately the geologist publishes a paper with information on a particular earthquake rupture or sequence of ruptures for a single point on a fault Alternatively there may be measurements or models to estimate fault parameters as a result of the occurrence of an earthquake In order to ingest this information into a model then judgment must be exercised as to how to extrapolate this information along the length of a fault segment We have expended considerable effort in combing through the literature and other existing databases online or off to include as much information as possible about the faults in California in the QuakeTables database 4 I I I a I I 


1 N 1 1   Figure 4 Extended Entity Relationship EER for the QuakeTables fault database Consistency in the data is maintained and uncertainties are allowed The representation includes data items and types and geophysical definitions e.g width is in kin 5 


For many faults there are multiple interpretations The purpose of QuakeTables is to standardize data for modelers and allow the modeler to further refine interpretations about faults As such then QuakeTables does not house one single self-consistent fault model for California Rather it houses the many different interpretations which can be many even for a single earthquake It is therefore important for the user to be able to access a self-consistent set of faults for their model and to be able to trace the fault segment recorded in the database back to the original reference Another issue is that different applications may use parameters that are reported in different ways For example slip on a fault can be reported in Cartesian or polar coordinates As a result we have also created mathematical relationships between fault data items to ensure the consistency and semantic integrity of the data The QuakeTables fault database also includes entries for including uncertainties on the data Figure 4 The current design of QuakeTables allows for rectangular faults which is consistent with the modeling applications One important requirement for the new QuakeTables design is its capability to store data from different data sources and keep it in its original format along with any calculated or derived datasets based on this original set This feature was implemented using two different dataset representations within QuakeTables The first is DataSet which are the original datasets by authors in their own format These sets are stored in dynamic tables to preserve their original format This type of dataset could also be snapshots of specific data that people want to preserve in a specific format For example we find that in carrying out pattern recognition of seismicity the seismic catalog is occasionally updated and earthquakes are inserted removed or their magnitude or location is changed The previous catalogue is no longer available and these changes can impact our results Hence we want to store all versions of the standard seismic catalogue The other data representation is QTSet which is a dataset that is derived from DataSet and conforms to the QuakeTables format that is used by simulation programs Each QTSet is linked to its original DataSet and a DataSet could have multiple QTSets Since DataSets are originally public domain QTSets could be set to public or private to users or groups of users 4 APPLICATIONS Our QuakeSim applications include traditional high performance software as well as data analysis and assimilation codes The high-performance modeling applications include GeoFEST 1 a finite element model that simulates stresses associated with earthquake faults Virtual California 2 which simulates large interacting fault systems and PARK 3 which simulates complete earthquake cycles and earthquake interaction The portal also contains Disloc which models surface deformation from faults within an elastic half-space and Simplex which is an inversion application which finds the optical dislocation model of fault slip from GPS and InSAR deformation data 4 Analysis methods include Pattern Informatics 5 which examines seismic archives to forecast geographic regions of future high probability for intense earthquakes and RDAHMM 6 a time series analysis application that can be used to determine state changes in instrument signals such as generated by Global Positioning System arrays The portal also has a mesh generation tool and tool to filter GPS time series data We expand on some of the applications here Virtual California Virtual California VC is a numerical simulation program for studying the system-level dynamics of the vertical strikeslip fault configuration in California 7,8 The majority of plate boundary deformation in California is accommodated by slip i.e earthquakes on the strike-slip faults included in the Virtual California models Figure 5 Virtual California uses topologically realistic networks of independent fault segments that are mediated by elastic interactions Virtual California is a backslip model inasmuch as the plate tectonic stress increases are produced by means of applying a negative backslip velocity to each segment whose magnitude is that of the long-term rate of slip on the segment Since positive slip reduces the stress on a fault segment negative slip due to the backslip increases the stress On each time step all faults are checked to determine whether the shear stress has reached the failure threshold Once at least one segment reaches the threshold the long time steps stop and short failure time steps a.k.a Monte Carlo Sweeps or mcs begin An mcs begins with a check of each site to determine whether it has failed followed by a parallel updating of each segment An update of a segment consists of increasing the sudden seismic slip on each segment so that the stress of the segment considered in isolation drops to a residual value plus or minus a random overshoot/undershoot The elastic stress on all segments is then recalculated and another mcs is carried out This iterative process repeats until all segments are below the failure threshold at which time the mcs time steps cease and the long plate tectonic time steps begin again Virtual California also includes a stress-dependent precursory slip or stress leakage of the type that has been observed in laboratory experiments by 9 and 10 The physics of this process is that as the stress on a segment increases a small amount of stable sliding occurs that is proportional to the level of the stress above the residual Lab experiments and field data suggest that the frictional parameter alpha 8 is of the order of a few percent Alpha is defined as the fraction of aseismic slip relative to total slip Therefore it may be possible to detect precursory signals before earthquakes using InSAR data from missions such as DESDynI Virtual California simulations enable testing for precursory signals Hence a focus is to analyze the magnitude and spatial distribution any precursory slip in the simulations 6 


Figure 5 Example fault model used by Virtual California left panel which is also included in the QuakeTables database Output converted to InSAR fringes for a given time step right panel The fringes represent surface deformation for an earthquake In this time step two earthquakes have occurred GeoFEST GeoFEST uses stress-displacement finite elements to model stress and flow in a realistic model of the Earth's crust and upper mantle in complex regions such as southern California including the Los Angeles Basin The model includes stress and strain due to the elastic response to an earthquake event in the region of the slipping fault the timedependent viscoelastic relaxation and the net effects from a series of earthquakes The physical domain may be twoor three-dimensional and may contain heterogeneous materials and an arbitrary network of faults Finite element modeling in three dimensions allows faithful modeling of complex faulting geometry inhomogeneous materials realistic viscous flow and a wide variety of fault slip models and boundary conditions Because finite elements conform to nearly any surface geometry and support wide variations in mesh density solutions may be made arbitrarily accurate with high computational efficiency GeoFEST runs in the high-performance domain of messagepassing parallel computer systems 11 including the Columbia system at NASA Ames and the COSMOS system at JPL among others In includes the functions of the PYRAMID parallel adaptive mesh refinement library 12 Source code is available with a no-fee license from Open Channel and it runs within the QuakeSim web-based problem-solving environment 13 All documentation and links to Open Channel and the portal can be found at http://quakesim.org also computed as a necessary byproduct The computational domain represents a region of the earth's crust and possibly underlying mantle It is typically a square or rectangular domain in map view with a flat upper free surface and constant depth but the domain may deviate from this The only requirement is that it be a bounded 3D domain with appropriate surface boundary conditions to render the problem well defined These boundary conditions may be specified as surface tractions and/or displacements which are usually specified on all surfaces and at times on interior surfaces such as faults Free surfaces have zero surface traction by definition Faults are interior surfaces and may have associated dislocation increments at set times The solid domain may contain layers or other distributions of material with associated rheological properties Currently supported materials are isotropic Newtonian elastic Newtonian viscoelastic and non-Newtonian powerlaw viscosity Elastostatic solutions are supported such as computing the displacements and stresses immediately caused by a specified slip distribution on a fault or finding the interior displacement and stress distribution due to a surface traction or displacement These solutions are not time-dependent Viscoelastic solutions which are time dependent are also supported in which the material flows and relaxes in response to imposed stress such as an earthquake event One may compute the viscoelastic response to a single event or to multiple events in a sequence The sequence may be user-specified Locationspecific body forces are supported The primary quantity computed by GeoFEST is the displacement at each point in a domain The stress tensor is 7 


lick on a 5tatiorn 5ymboi fr more jnf'rmation Figure 6 Google maps interface through the QuakeSim portal showing classified GPS time series data using the RDAHMM services Boundary conditions and solutions apply to a finite-element discretized approximation to this domain The domain is defined internally as a mesh of space-filling tetrahedral or hexahedral elements with three components of displacement at each mesh node constituting the solution Stress is computed for each element and is element-wise constant for the current linear tetrahedral element type Surface nodes carry special boundary conditions such as tractions or specified displacements Nodes on faults are special split-nodes that define screw or tensile dislocation on the fault without perturbing the mesh geometry Temporal evolution is by discrete time steps using an implicit solution technique allowing large time steps without numerical instability RDAHMM RDAHMM or Regularized Deterministic Hidden Markov Model carries out time series analysis and mode detection in GPS and other signals Examples of signals that RDAHMM can detect are ground subsidence from withdrawal of water from aquifers and earthquake coseismic and post-seismic signals We have integrated the processing of GPS position time series data into the QuakeSim portal By wrapping the RDAHMM time series analysis software as a web service filter it is seamlessly integrated into work and data processing flows Raw GPS data lHz are converted to RYO real-time format and made available through a data server Then data are passed through a series of filters that perform format conversion and station separation Message passing is handled through NaradaBrokering Finally data are passed to the RDAHMM analysis application We have implemented an interface through which the RDAHMM software can be applied to archived daily GPS solutions to perform time series segmentation Segmentation results are provided both graphically and 8 


through numerical descriptions of segmentations and fitted models which are available for download In addition we have implemented a proof-of-concept Google maps interface to RDAHMM analysis of real-time streaming GPS data The segmentation analysis is performed on the last ten minutes of real-time data and then displayed graphically upon mouse-over in the Google maps interface Figure 5 5 CONCLUSIONS carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under contract with NASA from the Earth Science and Technology Office and at University of Southern California Indiana University NASA Ames University of California Davis and University of California Irvine and Brown University under subcontract with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory REFERENCES Through the QuakeSim project we are developing tools for carrying out comprehensive simulations of earthquake fault interactions Our focus to date has been on California but the tools are applicable to any region in the world and through collaborations with the University of Queensland Australia we will be extending the database and models to cover that regions of the world We have recently released the QuakeSim 2.0 portal based on GridSphere the popular science gateway product We are working to extend our distributed computing environment by interfacing with the Columbia computer at NASA Ames and the Cosmos computer at JPL Our QuakeTables fault database is designed to allow modelers to make use of paleoseismic data and the associated uncertainties We have expanded QuakeSim to access GPS time series data and are developing the ontologies to access GPS velocity data and synthetic aperture radar interferograms InSAR data Current earthquake risk estimation is based on static models inferred from past earthquake activity as determined through paleoseismology and historical earthquakes Earthquake fault systems are continuously changing state based on deformation of the Earth's crust and mantle as well as strain release and transfer from earthquakes It is therefore important to develop time-dependent models for earthquake forecasting Current earthquake hazard maps have an outlook of decades 14,15 Our goal is to improve earthquake forecasting by in effect migrating from static hazard maps to dynamically changing earthquake forecasts based on the current state of the system 6 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We'd like to thank the many other QuakeSim contributors These include JPL staff members Charles Norton for the adaptive mesh refinement and porting and optimization of software to the Columbia and Cosmos systems and Margaret Glasscoe for testing the portal using science applications and developing the web pages and Harout Nazerian for developing the web pages and testing the portal Galip Aydin John Youl Choi and Zhigang Qi at Indiana University have also contributed to development of the QuakeSim portal Gleb Morein at UC Davis has worked on the development of Virtual California including porting to the Columbia computer system Lorena Medina corrected and validated the QuakeTables database at UC Irvine Terry Tullis at Brown University and Nick Beeler from the USGS develop and maintain the PARK application This work was 1 Parker Jay Andrea Donnellan Gregory Lyzenga John B Rundle Terry Tullis Performance Modeling Codes for the QuakeSim Problem Solving Environment International Conference on Computational Science 855862 2003 2 Rundle J.B K.F Tiampo W Klein and J.S.S Martins Self-organization in leaky threshold systems The influence of near mean field dynamics and its implications for earthquakes neurobiology and forecasting Proc Nat Acad Sci USA 99 Supplement 1 2514-2521 2002 3 Tullis T E Earthquake models using rate and state friction and fast multipoles Geophysical Research Abstracts European Geophysical Society 5 13211 2003 4 Lyzenga G.A W.R Panero A Donnellan The Influence of Anelastic Surface Layers on Postseismic Thrust Fault Deformation J Geophys Res 105 31513157 2000 5]Tiampo K.F Rundle J.B McGinnis S and Klein W Pattern dynamics and forecast methods in seismically active regions Pure and Applied Geophysics 159 2002 6 Granat R A Regularized Deterministic Annealing EM for Hidden Markov Models Ph.D Thesis University of California Los Angeles 2004 7 Rundle JB Klein W Tiampo K et al Linear pattern dynamics in nonlinear threshold systems Phys Rev E 61 2418-2431 2000 8 Rundle P.B J.B Rundle K.F Tiampo et al Nonlinear network dynamics on earthquake fault systems Phys Rev Lett 87 Art No 148501 2001 9 Tullis T.E Rock friction and its implications for earthquake prediction examined via models of Parkfield earthquakes Proc Nat Acad Sci 93 3803-3810 1996 10 Karner SL Marone C Frictional restrengthening in simulated fault gouge Effect of shear load perturbations J Geophys Res 106 19319-19337 2001 9 


11 Parker J Donnellan A Lyzenga G et al Performance modeling codes for the QuakeSim problem solving environment Lect Notes In Computer Sci 2659 855862 2003 12 Norton C G Lyzenga J Parker E Tisdale Developing Parallel Active Tectonics Simulations Using GeoFEST and the PYRAMID Adaptive Mesh Refinement Library Eos Trans AGU 85 Fall Meet Suppl Abstract SF43A-0785,2004 13 Pierce M Youn C Fox G Interacting data services for distributed earthquake modeling Lect Notes In Computer Sci 2659 863-872 2003 14 Blanpied M Working Group on California Earthquake Probabilities Earthquake Probabilities in the San Francisco Bay Region 2002-2031 US Geol Survey Open File Report 30-214 2003 15 Petersen M.D W.A Bryant C.H Cramer T Cao M Reichle A.D Frankel J.J Lienkaemper P.A McCrory and D.P Schwartz Probabilistic Seismic Hazard Assessment of for the State of California US Geol Survey Open File Report 96-706 1996 revised 2003 BIOGRAPHIES Andrea Donnellan is the DESDynl Science Lead and QuakeSim principal investigator at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory and is a research professor at the University of Southern California Donnellan uses GPS and InSAR satellite technology coupled with high performance computer models to study earthquakes plate tectonics and the corresponding movements of the earth's crust She has been a geophysicist at JPL since 1993 She received a B.S from the Ohio State University in 1986 with a geology major and mathematics minor She received her M.S and Ph.D in geophysics from Caltech's Seismological Laboratory in 1988 and 1991 respectively Donnellan received an M.S in Computer Science from the University of Southern California in 2003 She held a National Research Council Postdoctoral Fellowship at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Donnellan was a Visiting Associate at the Seismological Laboratory at Caltech from 1995 to 1996 In 1996 Donnellan received the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers in 2003 the Women in Aerospace Award for Outstanding Achievement and in 2006 she was the MUSES of the California Science Center Foundation Woman of the Year Jay Parker is a Senior Scientist in the Geodynamics and Space Geodesy group of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory a NASA center administered by the California Institute of Technology His graduate research used computer simulations to explain mesospheric ionization response to so ar ares an dynamic instabilities Dr Parker's research subjects at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory include a variety of topics in remote sensing analysis and modeling These include supercomputing algorithms for electromagnetic scattering and radiation satellite geodesy and finite element simulation for earthquake-related deformation and ocean sensing through GPS signal reflection He is currently the software engineer and coinvestigator for the QuakeSim project which has developed a solid Earth science framework including a variety of simulation and analysis tools He also develops the SEASCRAPE software system for high-fidelity simulation and parametric retrieval of atmospheric infrared spectrometry at Remote Sensing Analysis Systems Inc of Altadena CA Dr Parker is a member of the American Geophysical Union and co-chair of the Data Understanding and Assimilation working group of the APEC Cooperation for Earthquake Simulation Robert Granat is a senior member of the technical staff in the Data Understanding Systems Group at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory He received a B.S in engineering and applied science from Caltech in 1996 an M.S in electrical engineering in 1998 from University of California Los Angeles and a Ph.D in electrical engineering with an emphasis in signal processing from UCLA He works on the application of hidden Markov models to the study earthquakes and spacecraft systems Geoffrey Fox received a Ph.D in Theoretical Physics from Cambridge University and is now professor of Computer Science Informatics and Physics at Indiana University where he is director of the Community Grids Laboratory He previously held positions at Caltech Syracuse University and Florida State University He has published over 550 papers in physics and computer science and currently works in applying computer science to Defense Earthquake and Ice-sheet Science and Chemical Informatics He is involved in several projects to enhance the capabilities of Minority Serving Institutions 10 


Marlon Pierce is assistant director of the Community Grids Laboratory and leads the portal and services development for the QuakeSim project He has a Ph D in computational condensed matter physics from Florida State University 1998 His research interest is the application of distributed computing techniques and technologies to problems in physical sciences John Rundle is the Director of the Computational Science and Engineering Center at the University of California at Davis and is Director of the California Institute for Hazard Research of the University of California He was educated at Princeton University BSE 1972 and the University of CaliforniaLos Angeles MS 1973 PhD 1976 His research is focused on understanding the dynamics of earthquakes through numerical simulations pattern analysis of complex systems dynamics of driven nonlinear Earth systems and adaptation in general complex systems He has published over 200 papers in the peer-reviewed literature Dennis Mcbeod is currently Professor of Computer Science at the University of Southern California and Director of the Semantic Information Research Laboratory He received his Ph.D M.S and B.S degrees in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering from MIT Dr McLeod has published widely in the areas of data and knowledge base systems federated databases database models and design and ontologies His current research focuses on dynamic ontologies user-customized information access database semantic heterogeneity resolution and interoperation personalized information management environments information management environments for geoscience and homeland security information crisis management decision support systems and privacy and trust in information systems Rami Al-Ghanmi is a PhD student in the Computer Science Department at the University of Southern California He received his MS in Computer Science from the USC 2006 and BS in Computer Engineering from King Fahd University of Petroleum  Minerals Dhahran Saudi Arabia 2002 He is currently working with Professor Dennis McLeod at the Semantic Information Research Group at USC His research interests are Semantic Web Services and Ontology-based Federation of scientific data Lisa Grant is an associate professor of public health at University of California Irvine She studies environmental problems from a geologic perspective with emphasis on natural hazards The primary objective of her research program is to identify active faults and to quantify their potential for generating large earthquakes by discovering their history of earthquake production over geologic time intervals The record of previous large earthquakes on active faults is one of the best indicators of future earthquake activity The results of her research on earthquake occurrence patterns are applied for earthquake forecasting land-use planning building design risk assessment disaster preparedness planning and public education about the earthquake threat Grant received a B.S in environmental Earth science from Stanford in 1985 an M.S in both environmental engineering and science and geology in 1989 and 1990 respectively and a Ph.D in geology and geophysics from Caltech in 1993 She serves on the board of directors of the Southern California Earthquake Center and is an associate director of the California Hazards Research Institute Walter Brooks has worked at NASA Ames Research center since 1977 As chief of the NASA Advanced Supercomputing NAS Division he oversaw the full range of high-performance computing efforts within the division Brooks has led groups that simulated and designed space science missions such as Infrared Astronomical Satellite IRAS Space InfraRed Telescope Facility SIRTF and Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy SOFIA In 1993 he was selected to lead the Space Station redesign management team Awarded the NASA Outstanding Leadership medal for his work in the area of high-end computing Dr Brooks has played an important role in the high-end computing aspects of the Return-to-Flight effort He was a member of the High End Computing Revitalization Task Force that produced an important report in 2003 that outlines a set of the organization's key findings and recommendations to advance the state of high-end computing in the U.S He is past president of the SGI user group a Sloan Fellow an AIAA Associate Fellow and author of more than 50 publications Brooks received a doctorate in physics from Stevens Institute of Technology performing research for his thesis at Brookhaven National Laboratory He earned a master's degree from the Stanford Graduate School of Business in 1991 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


