Electronic Prognostics System Implementation on Power Actuator Components Sonia Vohnout Ridgetop Group Inc 6595 N Oracle Road Tucson Arizona 85704 520 742-3300 soniagridgetop-group.com Mladen Kozak Ridgetop Group Inc 6595 N Oracle Road Tucson Arizona 85704 520 742-3300 mladengridgetop-group.com Douglas Goodman Ridgetop Group Inc 6595 N Oracle Road Tucson Arizona 85704 520 742-3300 douggridgetop-group.com Ken 
Harris Ridgetop Group Inc 6595 N Oracle Road Tucson Arizona 85704 520 742-3300 kharrisgridgetop-group.com Justin Judkins Ridgetop Group Inc 6595 N Oracle Road Tucson Arizona 85704 520 742-3300 justingridgetop-group.com Abstract Prognostics-enablement of power actuator components involves acquisition and processing of multiple data and sensor inputs Data collection and fusion creates an accurate prognostic prediction 
To that end Ridgetop has developed an extensible Prognostic Analysis System Platform and a companion Prognostics Telemetry Harness With an Electro-Mechanical Actuator EMA as the focus this paper describes the extensible architecture for a Prognostics Health Management PHM system providing State of Health SoH and Remaining Useful Life RUL metrics The key enabler is the Ridgetop 
Prognostics Telemetry Harness RPTH which collects and preprocesses signals relating to the health of dynamically executing components and subsystems With an ultimate target of 100 up-time prognostics is an effective tool for managing the corrective early actions required to avoid costly down-time events An example is detailed using a common EMA and further analysis explores 
the return-on-investment justifying prognostics adoption 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 ELECTRONIC PROGNOSTIC ENABLEMENT  2 A PROGNOSTICS ANALYSIS SYSTEM PLATFORM  3 ACTUATOR PROGNOSTICS  5 SIMULINK MODEL AND RESULTS  6 RETURN ON INVESTMENT  8 SUMMARY  9 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  
10 REFERENCES  10 BIOGRAPHY  
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC Paper 1114 Version 1 Submitted Oct 22 2007 INTRODUCTION Actuators are critical components in many aerospace systems Their failure can lead to catastrophic consequences Often difficult and expensive to inspect actuators are frequently removed and replaced for maintenance 
11  1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
reasons whether faulty or not 00070 Figure 1 A Linear Actuator Actuators perform a mechanical motion to a load in response to an input signal Unfortunately technicians cannot always replicate problems reported during operation These problems are termed No Trouble Found Retest OK or Could Not Duplicate The use of ElectroMechanical Actuators EMAs in flight 
and mission-critical applications such as spacecraft military air vehicles and commercial aircraft is increasing and fly-by-wire or drive-by-wire systems have replaced hydraulic control lines with electrical lines This eliminates fluid leakage problems while improving control capabilities and reducing weight EMAs have become ubiquitous in aerospace applications from robotics to rocket engine control The 1 


trend of all-electric systems makes EMA diagnostic and prognostic-enablement a system design requirement sure to enhance the system reliability of flightand mission-critical systems For ease of adoption non-invasive prognostic solutions for EMAs need development Prognostics or predictive diagnostics uses observations of measurements to develop a prediction of impending failure of the observed system In some cases a precursor event or signature is directly measured In other cases multivariate inputs are necessary to determine the precursor event along with the fault-to-failure progression model Prognostics methodology can extract pre-cursor information from the EMAs This predicts failures and provides support to Condition-Based Maintenance CBM and Autonomic Logistics Systems ALS The concepts from this work have already been applied to a practical and representative EMA design along with associated testing and verification 3 Applications for Ridgetop's Telemetry Harness a1 N 0 0 j Integrated Digital Hard-Wired Circuits Devices Networks Wireless FPGA Processor Performance Data  Quantitative Data  Power Output 5  Temperatures  Efficiency E a  Voltages n a  Currents ELECTRONIC PROGNOSTIC ENABLEMENT A properly configured on-board prognostic-enabled EMA system 0 0 0 Monitors State-of-Health SoH during operation Extracts prognostic information from SoH Reduces overall test costs  Improves fault coverage through dedicated prognostic circuitry added to EMA circuit design  Provides SoH and Remaining Useful Life RUL metrics through use as remote diagnostics 4  Collects data and manages assets with full information on the SOH and RUL from a central collection point linked to the on-board prognostics sensor With prognostics capabilities now extended to electronic modules the acquisition of system information must be assembled in a hierarchical manner assessing failure rates for subassemblies within the modules and determining the modules SoH and RUL from a wide range of observations prognostic sensors and algorithms  Satellite l Relay 1IRidgetop's Prognostics Solution Database Predictive Metrics  Remaining Useful Life  Time-to-Failure  Probability-of-Failure Cognitive Engine 70 ci  ConditionBased Actions Prognostics-Informed Actions  Scheduling  Modeling  Inventory  Trending 00065 Figure 2 Application Scalability and Process Flow of Ridgetop's Telemetry Harness Prognostics-Enabled Actuator Drive XML-Based Analysis System Figure 3 Prognostics Elements Diagram 00072 This information fits into a taxonomy consisting of diagnostics prognostics and system-level Integrated Vehicle Health Management IVHM To be a versatile analysis platform the system architecture should be intuitive easy to use and simple to interface to other applications Unlike systems developed for the mechanical world of turbines and engines this architecture is optimized 2 A  I 


for electronic systems This includes short time constants non-monotonic component degradation and intermittencies Electronic Prognostics and Health Management ePHM offers the following benefits  Instant determination of the electronic module's SoH  Prediction of electronic module's RUL  Advance notice of impending failures  Integration with the supply chain through ALS Figure 4 shows the design process or methodology applying prognostics to a general system module In this application known problem areas are ranked in a Pareto chart precursors for problem components are derived and appropriate corresponding observation structures are developed Step 1 Characterize Actuator System Failures Component's Key Failure Pareto Ranking Step 2 Extract Precursor Signatures to Failure 50 40 Target Position vs U 30 Rotor Position 2 20  10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Time sec 0.0 Following Error 2.0 LU 3.0 40 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Time sec Degradation  Curve LL IJ Component or Subsystem The authors describe a prognostics approach that includes both the data collection and the analysis for calculation of SoH and RUL metrics for EMAs A PROGNOSTICS ANALYSIS SYSTEM PLATFORM Ridgetop's architecture supports the prognostics-enablement of a network of distributed assets using wireless transmission technology and a centralized collection point for examining the individual assets State-of-Health and Remaining Useful Life see Figure 4 This approach supports CBM strategies reducing the cost of maintaining these systems across a widely dispersed area improving the overall up-time of these assets and equipping service personnel with correct sets of replacement parts and diagnostic tools to rapidly repair or maintain the systems Figure 2 illustrates a multi-level architecture of subsystems and components Health monitoring occurs at several levels from IC dieto system-level For example an actuator system might consist of power sources characterized actuator at various levels of model abstraction and loads Each element has its own hierarchically modeled subsystems using an underlying structured XML approach Data Acquisition and Storage Ridgetop's electronic prognostics solution provides the ability to store sensor data and applies algorithms to make RUL predictions for on-board electronic systems subsystems and components Through the collection and analysis of time series data the system monitors quantitative metrics associated with physical variables performance variables and various quality of service metrics Physical variables include temperatures voltages and currents throughout the system Performance variables include power output and efficiency Quality of service metrics include RUL Time-to-Failure TTF and Probability of Failure POF These variables provide a rich foundation for building empirical models for system components individually for example generators and batteries and for individual components in a system Benefits of this approach include discovery of root cause observation of anomalous behavior at the system-level and early detection of trends toward failure While independent sensors would show normal operation trends indicating failure make early detection and preventative action possible u Time Figure 4 Electronics Prognostics Design Process 00064 A CPU processes the data into meaningful good/bad indicators 3 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Lifetime Percent Step 3 Calculate Remaining Useful Lifetime RUL Useful Life RUL Lifetime of SMPS Actuator System Prognostic o iD  Warning Point XI t L I  Wearout 100 90 80 


 Recorded tailures  Sensor Figure 6 Architectural View Showing an Actuator System at the Top-Level Cognitive Layer or Engine The cognitive layer see Figure 2 provides the necessary fault trend analysis and recommends maintenance actions to the scheduler An easy-to-use interface with domain experts in the field provides support for engineering changes and equipment recommendations The primary functions include performing fault isolation via more enhanced diagnostics prognostic assessments health management false alarm mitigation and data trending The interface supports optimized maintenance planning and better class-wide management capabilities Overall PHM and fault trending analysis reduces total maintenance costs and increases the reliability of in-service actuators The Ridgetop State Estimation Technique RSET approach uses a self-learning algorithm to compare predicted and measured output of sensors already existing within the monitored system The residual between the measured and predicted value provides a quantitative basis for incipient fault detection and diagnosis Ridgetop Prognostics Telemetry Harness The key enabler for achieving prognostics capabilities is a Ridgetop Prognostics Telemetry Harness RPTH The RPTH collects and preprocesses time series signals relating to the health of dynamically executing components and subsystems in high reliability enterprise servers The RPTH signals are continuously archived to an offline circular file  the Black Box Flight Recorder while being processed in real-time using advanced pattern recognition for proactive anomaly detection and RUL estimation with associated quantitative confidence factors Advanced pattern recognition techniques allow sensitive early detection of a wide range of incipient failures in actuator power systems Even mechanical faults are susceptible to prognostic detection The electrical perturbations caused by mechanical faults are detectable 4 I I I I I I I Satellite Manualy Reports Senrsor _0 Fault Reports Health An1alysis Datal Remaxcining XML Import  ExDort Ridgetop Off-Board Analysis Printed Circuit Board FPGA Integrated Circuits  Self-Healing NBTI  SJ BIST TDDB Radiation Digital Power Sensors Ridgetop On-Board Prognostics-Enabled Device 00063 Figure 5 Extensible Prognostics-Enabling Architecture for a Wireless Network of Distributed Assets and Centralized Collection Points In the deployed system it is advantageous to obtain information as quickly as possible So a real-time link with the deployed system is very powerful benefit This link can be via satellite landline or wireless connection to the central collection point With the system SoH data ground support personnel will know exactly what spare parts are needed to maintain a high level of operational readiness Data is stored in a hierarchical structure see Figure 6 An XML-type Extensible Markup Language software architecture offers these levels of abstraction as well as compliance with MIMOSA standards A simple example for an avionics actuator can be represented as a system with subsystems and individual components with XML which is imported into a database platform and used for further diagnostics and prognostics support  Paret lm or Stlored Data Useful Life  Assembly Etmto structure Entere Structured 


When correlated with a specific condition a mechanical fault has a precursor signature same as an incipient fault with an electrical origin These mechanical faults or conditions include specific problems such as mechanical wear bearing aging and lubricant contamination environmental contributors thermal anomalies or faults preceded by patterns in wind speed and direction degraded/failed sensors and degradation of mechanical and electronic interconnects These techniques help substantially increase component reliability margins and system availability goals while reducing through improved root cause analysis costly troubleshooting-diagnosis-repair cycles that are a significant cost issue for many of these systems A particular challenge in setting the prognostic trigger point is the avoidance of false-alarms detection too early in system's lifetime and avoidance of late notifications While the sensors used to acquire SoH information may be both diagnostic and prognostic neither sensor type provides a prediction of when the failure is likely to occur One predictive analysis methodology collects sensor data from many sources and conditions the collected data to enable probabilistic calculations including Bayesian calculations Bayesian calculations can be quite complex especially when many variables are involved After data fusion it is necessary to run a multiplicity of calculations to predict the likelihood of failure of one of the power subsystems within a specified period Accordingly accurate prediction also requires collection conditioning and processing of increasingly complex and massive sets of data A key benefit of the Ridgetop Electronic Prognostics Platform is the use of collected information to calculate system RUL There are several techniques employed for such estimates including analysis of actual operands and measurands existing diagnostic output vectors prognostic sensors and canaries Data from the constellation of these inputs is collected and fused Algorithms yield composite estimates of system health at a particular level within the system hierarchy The algorithms available include adaptive model-based reasoners RSET Bayesian network reasoners and others With a platform available for quick analysis various options can be explored For example at the board and module levels a Built-In Self-Test BIST identifies and isolates faults as well as providing predictive capability of impending failures Emphasis is placed on reducing false alarms and identifying prognostic techniques to anticipate system degradation and allow automated recovery This prognostic approach provides an accurate picture of forthcoming faults and component degradation the predictive indicators of failure and is extremely useful to the crew The solution also allows timely action needed to avoid costly or catastrophic damage to critical Line Replaceable Units LRUs and to maintain availability/readiness rates for weapon systems ACTUATOR PROGNOSTICS Prognostic techniques initially developed by Ridgetop for Switch-Mode Power Supplies SMPS are applicable to electronic sub-systems such as the actuator driver in a brushless DC motor system The brushless DC motor uses permanent magnets attached to a rotor in place of the armature windings in a conventional DC motor Field winding are driven by a multi-phase generally three phase commutation signal that uses a power drive stage similar to topologies in DC-to-DC power converters Typically three Hall sensors detect rotor position Commutation is based on the Hall sensor inputs Two alternative approaches for positioning feedback are 1 taking the back EMF directly from the windings and 2 using an optical sensor for precise position feedback A microprocessor is generally required to convert position feedback and motion profiles into a commutation signal The DC brushless motor is common in industrial applications requiring higher performance and reliability This is due to the motor's brush-free operation linear current/torque relationship smoother acceleration and clean spark-free operation Figure 7 State Diagram of a Motor/Actuator System Close-Loop DC A closed loop system consisting of an actuator and a position sensing feedback loop Figure 7 tracks position with a preset motion profile The system acts as a transfer function responding to perturbations in either set position or motor torque Critical components windings power switches sensors and microprocessor exhibit fault-tofailure progression signatures manifesting in the transfer function of the control loop The non-invasive prognostic detector is an impulse either in the motion profile or the load torque and data register to record the recovery waveform for position angular speed or force output A first-order analysis compares the captured waveform of a suspect motion system against a baseline signature recorded on a new system Deviations from the baseline suggest an anomaly has been observation of an anomaly 5 


5 U The simulation shows following error resulting from lead screw in normal and degraded condition worn bearing 0 0 0 E co 0 0 0 0 2 0 LL lU Impulse Region 50 0 0 2 4 6 8 1C 20 2 4 6 8 10 Ti me Figure 8 An Impulse Response in an Actuator Caused by a Position Jog SIMULINK MODEL AND RESULTS To help better understand the behavior of critical parts in an EMA circuit and to test our hypotheses regarding component degradation the actuator circuit was simulated using the MATLAB Simulink tool set The circuit in Figure 9 is the representation of the DC motor actuator circuit and the prognostics for the Rotor shaft position ou rre nt Figure 10 DC Motor Simulink Model Furthermore the motor converts electrical armature current into mechanical torque of the motor as Tm  kif la 2 where if is field current and ia armature current The back emf is given by Vb kijWm 3 and the supply voltage to the rotor circuit and inertia of the rotor as v Rai L dia Vb a a a a dt Jm dm  Tm TL-bmn com cdt 4 5 where com is angular speed of the motor Ra armature i resistance La armature inductance Jm inertia of the rotor and bm dampening constant of the rotor see Figure 1 1 From these equations the second term which is of mechanical  m-&g.om nature can be established Inertia and torque are the main components of this transfer function G\(s 1L I 6 Figure 9 Actuator Circuit Simulink Model The DC motor consists of electrical and mechanical parts as illustrated in Figure 10 The electrical term is made of an inductance and a resistance with a transfer function GE\(s  1 LmS  RM The signal coming from the DC motor is fed into Pulse Width Modulator PWM and divided into two signals which are opposite in magnitude Figure 12 These two different signals are used to turn on and off MOSFETs in the H-bridge Figure 13 1 6 0 T t T6 FK n X  0 Degraded Leadscrew Normal Recovery o9n 0 


vs Rotor Position All Figure I 1 Equivalent Circuit of a DC Motor and Armature MOSFETs are good Simulink Model Mechanical Loading Arm The H-bridge consists of four MOSFETs that are connected 1.0 at the gates diagonally MI and M3 and M2 and M4 The 0 0 0 outputs of the H-bridge are summed and fed into the DC motor w 1.0 Following Error 2 0 o;1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Sequence l  itL S  Time sec it Svite-h Rl-llC vhm same graph Stator Field Circuit Rotor Armature Circuit O 1 0-_ Load Shaft _ _ _ _ _ _ _ if Rf L H should behave It is labeled as Target position solid line  00  The Phase Detector detects changes in the position between the Target position and the actual position of the rotor Lf T V dashed line That signal is then summed and displayed as Vf Lf t t  Va Following Error Also the Rotor position which is directly NT taken from the DC motor is compared to the Target position _ O 0 o on the 50 Magnetic 40 t Rotor Position Torque RtrPsto I 9 0 30t D C 28V simulation until the target position changes direction At that point the Rotor position overshoots but it recovers very quickly The overshoot is due to the slow response time of m 91 l the Control system The Following Error or deviation from hM l 1 fl3gfi-lt 4r g the target as seen on Figure 15 is at zero during the whole simulation As long as the Rotor position follows the Target v C1=10e-9 1position the error is at zero Oscillations from the zero error v 1 1,-\(B can be seen at the start of simulation and at the place where  V142 gV2 the Target position changes direction This is due to the    CCAS2Dg feedback and its response In Figure 16 and Figure 17 one of the MOSFETs MI or cJourrent M3 in the H-bridge breaks down meaning that the internal hil2  l  J _  resistance will increase In Figure 16 the Rotor position is at the higher degree level then the Target position during the entire simulation At the point of direction change the Rotor  Lj.2 position is overshooting a little but it compensates and rides again next to the Target position but still with an error Figure 13 H Bridge Simulink Model The signal builder a ramp was non-invasively induced into the circuit The signal is used to mimic how the DC motor 7 I_ I_ I_ I_ I_ 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Time sec Damping b0_ 00075 Figure 1:qilnCcioaD00060 Figure 14 Simulated Target Position Al 00071 lnl DC 28VD T Figure 15 Simulated Following Error All MOSFETs are good Simulink Model Figure 14 and Figure 15 are an example of the position and Sofiltchl vmh 9l Following Error when all the components in the circuit are Figure 12 PWM Circuit Simulink Model in the working condition We can observe on Figure 14 that the Rotor position is exactly following the Target position from the start of the I 0 Armature Load  20 Target Position mT 


or M4 are damaged Simulink Model In Figure 18 and Figure 19 or decreases ROI  Savings Implementation costs Investment required For example in the 50 ire 17 Simulated Following Error MI or M3 be driven harder and Time sec the Rotor position is going 0 0 Better spending controls on spare inventory Reduced expenditure in armaments required to accomplish mission  Increase in vs Rotor Position MI to be at the higher degree then 6 7 8 9 an analysis of the savings associated with the implementation less the cost of implementation divided by the investment required This relationship is mathematically stated Figure 18 Simulated Target position one of the other two MOSFETs is degraded In Figure 18 the output of the Rotor position is below legging the Target position all the way degrees In the airplane wing flaps these errors of the airplane 1 RETURN ON INVESTMENT In general the Return-on-Investment ROI for the adoption of electronic prognostics consists of mission success rate 8 I 0 a 70 0 L none of the sides of the H-bridge is not functioning Big error at 6.3 sec  properly there is higher resistance in one of the MOSFETs i then the response of the circuit is different If MI _ 40 30 20 10 0 Rotor Position Target Position vs Rotor position M2 going to use of inventory M4 break down then the e higher degree level from the Target position then Rotor position is legging the target position and it does are damaged Simulink Model 0.0Bi 1 0  Big error at 1 0 sec 2 O\\E _ 3.0 4.0 Figu Figure Rotor p is at the the Fol turn slc Followi of the r position depending on how close the Rotor position is to the Target position When the H-bridge is working properly the Following Error is at zero because the Rotor position is following exactly the Target position This can be described in the example of the airplane's wing-flap When the Target position is set to go to 40 degrees and then is lowered to 30 degrees the rotor position should follow the same line The DC Motor and its control system have a very slow response time and that is why discrepancies in the position graphs can be seen Every time the direction of the Target position is changed the overshoot of the Rotor position is seen due to the slow response of the control system When are due to the faster change in the direction expected Exact functioning of these parts is very crucial for Target position and the slow response of the Rotor the stability or M3 0 1 2 3 4 5 5 6 7 8 9 10 Time sec Figure 16 Simulated Target Position are the Target position The Following Error is going to be damaged Simulink Model positive meaning the DC Motor should be slowed down The current in the side that has higher resistance is lower in 17 is the representation of the difference between value then the other side of the H-bridge However if one of osition and the Target position If the Rotor position the other two MOSFETs M2 or not lowing Error is negative meaning the rotor should reach target sources of savings from prognostics include  Increased aircraft availability  Reduced loss of aircraft  Reduction in unplanned maintenance all aircraft not just those in the battlefield of up to 20 8  Moving spares to the proper place logistics  Better 10 break down the DC Motor is even when the impulse changes its direction The Following Error in Figure 19 is always positive but it increases 1 2 3 4 or M3 or M4 are damaged Simulink Model Figure 19 Simulated Following Error M2 wer Big errors at times 1 sec and 6.3 sec in the in position can cause airplane to turn slower or faster then ing Error case of aircraft the identified 


The costs of applying prognostics can be separated into three categories  Non-recurring engineering NRE cost of adding the prognostics to an actuator  Per unit costs of the prognostic components  False Alarm Cost if failure rate of the prognostic circuitry approaches the failure rate of the component being monitored In reference 9 it was shown that ROI for prognosticsenabling high efficiency power converters can be up to 20 and is often significantly higher Separately Sun Microsystems found that proper adoption of electronic prognostics to their Blade servers reduced their NTF rates from over 50O to less than 10%.3 Missed Opportunity the VWPassat Example Due to the high cost and complexity involved in purchasing financing and servicing aircraft ROI is often difficult to assess A more accessible but equally compelling case can be made examining the recent recall and on-going National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHTSA probe of the VW Passat An investigation began in May 2007 revealed there had been 78 reports of engine fires and two injuries involved with the VW Passat Specifically the Passat sedans from the 2000-2003 model year equipped with 4and 6-cylinder engines The engine fires are attributed to failure of the ignition coil 10 Table 1 Statistical Data for VW Passat Recall 11 Total Units Affected Recalled Units Failure Incidents to date Failure Cause LRU Warranty Claims LRU Cost Unit Cost Low Unit Cost High Unit Cost Average 352,668 345,642 12 78 Ignition Coil 14850 173.76 21,750 31,575 26,662 Before calculating ROI an estimate is required for the recall cost Factors affecting the recall cost include  LRUs per unit  Labor cost per hour  Labor time  Recall administrative cost per unit 3 Gross K Sun Microsystems Electronic Prognostics Experience NDIA Conference 2006 Miami Florida These factors are the primary assumptions needed to make the recall cost calculation Table 2 Recall Cost Assumptions LRUs per unit 1 Labor cost per hour 100 Labor time per unit 1 hour Recall administrative cost per unit 150 With these factors identified and can be calculated estimated the recall cost Recall Cost per unit  423.76 Recall Cost total  146,469,254 With a 500K investment cost as the price for a corporate prognostics IP license the ROI calculation is ROI  146,620,960 500,000  500,000  292 Not bad for an investment of 0.71 per unit car particularly when weighted against an estimated 423.76 recall cost per car which does not take into account inestimable values such as customer satisfaction investor confidence and positive brand recognition While damage to these somewhat nebulous values is hard to assess it's not hard at all to track and tally the losses incurred by businesses suffering from defect-related set-backs For VW a faulty component with a failure rate of 0.02 occurring in 78 cars resulted in the recall of 346,000 cars or 96.l1 of all cars manufactured over a four-year period Or to put it in another way 13,000 approximately one case of defective ignition coils cost the company 146.6 million dollars That comes out to 1.9 million dollars per defective ignition coil One benefit yet to be mentioned of a successful electronic prognostics deployment is the reduction in the very defects and failures that are the root causes of a product buy-backs refunds product returns and recall campaigns These ROI calculation demonstrate the tremendous gains possible through a modest investment as well as the cost of missed opportunities Electronic prognostics are one of those rare value-added propositions customers can easily understand and justify when couched in terms of improved quality performance and maintenance reductions SUMMARY This paper shows the efficacy of using electronic prognostics on actuator drive systems used in commercial and mil-aero systems Electronic prognostics can be linked to larger networks to provide a dynamically updated inventory of assets indicating state-of-health and remaining 9 1-1 li 1 


useful life This is very beneficial in military and industrial automation settings and can link to larger system level prognostics such as the generator system in Figure 20 and maintenance ALS This incorporates external prognostics extraction blocks multiplexed to external Integrated Health Monitoring System Exciter l Ref I I I I ITo IHMS I L I Figure 20 A System-Level Solution for Synchronous Generator The non-invasive approach to electronic prognostics can be implemented on a variety of power electronic systems where access to internal circuit nodes is not available Starting with a state diagram description of the system operating with feedback one can determine the out response to a given input perturbation Finally with the understanding of how changes in the condition of interior components affect the response function component degradation can be measured indirectly Fault-to-failure progression models are used to derive RUL estimations This approach has tremendous advantage over direct measurement schemes in which sensors must be added inside the circuit that by virtue of their own reliability can increase the probability of failure and reduce the mean lifetime of the system High-reliability high-fault coverage solutions can be implemented for power electronics using existing terminal access ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank the NAVAIR/JSF Program Office the NASA/Ames Research Center Daimler Chrysler and Raytheon Missile Systems for their support and encouragement of Ridgetop's work in this area REFERENCES 1 C&D Technologies WPA-50 Point of Load Converter 2 Pflueger K P Power-Supply Reliability A Practical Improvement Guide EDN March 3 1997 IBM Germany 3 Goodman D Vermeire B Spuhler P Venkatramani H Practical Application of PHM/Prognostics to COTS Power Converters Aerospace Conference 2005 IEEE 512 March 2005,35733578 4 Remote diagnostics can facilitate communication between a central diagnostic center with the deployed system By the time the system is returned to base a spare can be ready-to-install 5 R Erickson Fundamentals of Power Electronics Norwell NIA Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999 6 Judkins J B et.al A Prognostic Sensor for VoltageRegulated Switch-Mode Power Supplies IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2007 7 Hofmieister J P et.al Real-Time Detection of SolderJoint Faults in Operational Field Programmable Gate Arrays IEEE Aerospace Conference March 2007 8 HUMS Health and Usage Monitoring Systems Aviation Maintenance 02/16/06 9 Goodman D Wood S Return-on-Investment ROI for Electronic Prognostics in High Reliability Telecom Applications Intelec 2006 Conference Providence Rhode Island 10 John Maddox NHTSA Investigation PE 07-024 IR to MFR for 2000-2003 Volkswagen Passat 05/11/2007 11 Lee Strickland NHTSA Investigation PE 07-024 ODI Resume for 2000-2003 Volkswagen Passat 05/10/2007 12 Lee Strickland NHTSA Investigation PE 07-024 ODI Resume for 2000-2003 Volkswagen Passat 09/28/2007 10 lw 30 lw 


BIOGRAPHY Sonia Vohnout Sonia Vohnout is Systems Engineer at Ridgetop Group Inc She received her Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from the University of Costa Rica and Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Systems Engineering from the University of Arizona In the past she has worked for Modular Mining IBM and AT&T Bell Laboratories She previously owned and operated a manufacturing facility in Mexico She is an expert modeler and has extensive expertise in software and computer systems Ms Vohnout has over 20 years of experience in systems engineering quality systems management and business development and management Douglas Goodman Patent Review Roundtable Doug Goodman founded Ridgetop Group Inc in 2000 and has over 30 years experience as an Electronic Engineer including work at Tektronix and Honeywell He earned a BSEE from California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo and an MBA from the University of Portland He has published over 20 papers on instrumentation and control and was a Member of the Tektronix Mr Goodman is a co-founder and President of Opmaxx the firm that developed the first commercially available Analog Built-In Self-Test BIST product line including selfcontained IP for measuring the performance of ADCs PLLs Gain Stages and other mixed signal modules He has extensive experience in low noise instrumentation design stemming from a 14-year stint at Tektronix Inc He was Vice President of Engineering at Analogy Inc an Analog/Mechatronic Simulation Tool firm which after a successful IPO on the NASDAQ became part of Synopsys Inc a large Electronic Design Automation EDA firm At Ridgetop Group Mr Goodman is the Principal Investigator on a number of electronic prognostics and radiation-hardened IC-related projects in addition to his executive duties Justin Judkins is Director of  Research and oversees the research and implementations of electronic prognostics His research interests involve applying sensor array technology to various reasoning engines to provide optimum performance for electronic modules and systems He previously held senior-level engineering positions at Bell Labs and Lucent involving high-reliability telecom transmission He received a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Arizona Mladen Kozak Mladen Kozak is a Design Engineer and Technical Staff Member for Ridgetop Group Inc He is instrumental in eve oping inovative solutions supporting Ridgetop's prognostic and ePHM efforts related to Power Electronics Switching Power Supplies and Electro-Mechanical Actuators His technical background includes circuit design and complex control system simulations He received his BSEE from the University of Arizona and is currently pursuing an MS Ken Harris Ken Harris is the senior technical writer at Ridgetop Group An expert in usability and crosscultural communication he has served as plenary speaker and symposium chair for advanced topics in technical communication and information design Over a 25year career he has become an award-winning writer designer and illustrator with awards ranging from academic contests to juried national and international competitions Mr Harris worked as senior writer technical illustrator and information product designer at Lucent Motorola NCR and Cingular Wireless before moving to Arizona and joining Ridgetop Group He received a BA in English from the University of New Mexico graduating cum laude and with departmental honors He has taught graduate technical writing and graphic design at Georgia Tech and Southern Polytechnic State University and is a senior fellow in the Society for Technical Communication 11 Justin Judkins 


 12  200  NROM: approx 4060 devices 200  Flash: approx 256 devices By examination, it can be easily seen that developing a high capacity data recorder as pr oposed using CRAM technology is impractical Error Detection and Correction Codes  All technologies are subject to lo ss of information, be they the loss of a single bit or the loss of an entire chip, the inclusion of Error Detection and Correction is an appropriate action by any system designer Just by using EDAC, there is an associated bit-penalty ranging from a few percentile to over 25 per cent   The exact selection of most-appropriat e Error Correction codes is highly dependent upon error phenomena not only for each  rt ain aspects of the exact part being considered as well as the environment to be encountered [2  25  F o r t h e reco rde r  de scri be d bel o w a Reed-Solomon code was selected.  It is important to note that this may not be the prime candidate, but was chosen for known characteristics Selection of a more appropri ate EDAC code [2 w oul d  most assuredly, bring about a reduction in recorder mass and power One final, important, distinction between the two prime technologies is required The NROM devices analyzed for this paper have built-in an incredibly powerful error detection and correction machine, capable of detecting four bits in error in a single word, and correcting three bits per word [10  W i t h th is m e th od t h e Bit Error Rate is calculated by the manufacturer to be less than 1.18E 19  errors/bit-day \226 equivalent to 3 unrecoverable bit errors every 550 years for the entire recorder; therefore, the package numbers presented here do not include extra devices required for EDAC other than that provided by the chip itself Table 6 - HC-SSR Basic Features 200  Redundant SpaceWire interfaces 200  Redundant Power Converters 200  Redundant Controllers/Supervisors 200  Multi-plane Non-volatile storage 200  Error detection and correction 200  Device isolation to the EDAC Word  Figure 18 - HC-SSR Conceptual Block Diagram 


 13  7  H IGH C APACITY SSR  D ESCRIPTION  Block Diagram  A block diagram of a recorder meeting all requirements listed in Table 6 is shown as Figure 18.  The recorder features cross-coupled SpaceWire interfaces as well as redundancy down to the memory plane Cross-coupled controllers w ith shared memory ensure operation without the need to re-build memory allocation tables should a fault occur Recorder Summary  Using conservative packaging techniques, two recorder designs were developed: one using Flash memory and the other using NROM.  A summary of their characteristics is provided in the tables below.  A more detailed discussion of design and implementation follows Board Design  Figure 19 - One side of 8Tb Memory Slice using NROM Technology The NROM-based solution is presented as Figure 19.  In the figure, nearly two hundred 2-Gbit NROM devices are installed on each face of the 9U card.  \(The whitespace is preserved in this example for passive components and design margin.\e time of this writing, the availability of chip-stacked NROM devices was uncertain and omitted from the trade space Design of a Flash-based memory card would be of similar ilk.  Device density would permit the use of a 6U card Compare the number of devices required for each design as given in Tables 7 and 8 Table 7 - NROM-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 9U  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  14 ea Size, 9U 6  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Mass  10 kg 7  Power  30 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel Space Wire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(Sparing extra Devices  4060 32 Gb die    6 IEEE 1101.1-1998 7 Assumes worst case devices are operable to expected regime without shielding 


 14  Table 8 - Flash-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 6U  Approx 28 x12.7 x 25 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  4 ea Mass  3.5 kg  Power  6 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel SpaceWire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(EDAC Sparing extra Devices  254 512 Gb \(not incl EDAC  Controller Board  Figure 20 - Controller Card Layout \(Violet = Shared Memory  Figure 20 shows one of many possible methods of design for an IO controller slice.  The IO controller slice provides redundant SpaceWire interfaces and redundant interfaces to the backplane.  Alt hough there are two controllers shown there is, in this concept, a single set of Shared Memory which is common between both controllers One of the main functions of the active controller is to build and maintain a directory of memory sector-to-physical address translation tables.  Having the table stored in Shared Memory assures timely restart of the recorder function should it become necessary to activate and swap to the alternate controller Interfaces  The Data Recorder interfa ces with the Command Data Handling \(CDH\ubsystem via the standard SpaceWire interface 8 Utilizing conservative design techniques, a sustained Write speed of at least 200 Mbps into memory is guaranteed.   The recorder is capable of supporting simultaneous Writing and Reading of data subject to usual certain timing restrictions imposed by the memory devices themselves Standard 28 Volt bus power is applied to the SSR which features two power convert er units for redundancy Redundancy & Fault Tolerance The execution of good systems engineering practice is recommended and will, most likely result in a physical  enlargement of the SSR in one dimension.  This may consist of addition of spare memory to each memory slice, or the addition of one or more spare memory slices to the entire design With respect to Fault Tolerance, aside from the use of redundant interfaces and contro llers, described above, the HC-SSR is designed such that individual blocks of words as determined by EDAC boundaries can be tagged as Do Not Use.  An example of an EDAC word with embedded control bits is included as Figure 21  Figure 21 - EDAC Word Bit-Level Assignments File System The HC-SSR contains built in File Management system supervised by Interface/Controlle r ASICs.  File storage is compatible with the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP thereby reducing the need for processing and packetizing data externally   8 ESA Standard ECSS-E-50-12A 96 bits 26 -->||<-- 6 EDAC Ctl/Hdr/ID Data 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


