QuakeSim Web Services Portals and Infrastructure for Geophysics Marlon E Pierce Geoffrey C Fox Galip Aydin and Zhigang Qi Community Grids Laboratory Indiana University 501 North Morton Street Bloomington IN 47404 812-856-1212 mpierce@cs.indiana.edu Andrea Donnellan Jay W Parker and Robert Granat NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory M/S 183-335 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 90089-8099 Abstract We discuss significant recent updates and revisions to the QuakeSim portal and Web services which provide 
access to geophysical applications data sets and real time sensor data These new developments include a significant updates to the Web portal b a revision of Web Services to better encapsulate applications c additional services for generating Keyhole Markup Language markups of maps and d support for real-time Global Positioning Data TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 QUAKESIM WEB PORTAL  1 3 WEB SERVICES 2 4 
REAL-TIME SENSOR SUPPORT 4 5 SUMMARY AND FUTURE WORK 5 REFERENCES 6 BIOGRAPHY 7 1 INTRODUCTION The QuakeSim project led by the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory JPL researches the interactions of fault systems that produce earthquakes Closely related to the geophysical research is the information technology and distributed computing development work which will be the focus of this paper In addition to JPL QuakeSim project includes 
participants from the University of Southern California University of California Davis and Irvine and Indiana University 12 QuakeSim's distributed architecture is based upon a multitiered Web portal and Web Services model separating functionality from the presentation layer This approach is typical of science gateways 1 Web Services may be generally categorized as providing access to information 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2IEEEAC paper 
1338 Version 3 Updated 2007:10:23 databases and science applications although from a data flow model this distinction is one of implementation only Earlier work on the QuakeSim architecture is described in 2 The data management and scientific goals of QuakeSim are described in a companion paper QuakeSim Efficient Modeling of Sensor Web Data in a Web Services Environment The subject of this paper is the significant revisions to the portal and service infrastructure that were described 
in 2 For more information on the QuakeSim project the geophysical research work links to the QuakeSim portal and links to the project's open source code repository and build system see 3 2 QUAKESIM WEB PORTAL QuakeSim was a pioneer in the use of portlet components for assembling portals out of reusable parts Our earlier work was based on the Apache Jetspeed 1 portlet container 
As described in 2 the Jetspeed portlet development model had several undesirable features particularly poor support for externally developed Web applications which led to our development of custom components particularly the WebForm Portlet All portlets in the initial version of the portal were extension of this component This component ultimately had limited scalability and performance because of its use of network I/0 for communications between the portlet 
and its Jetspeed container The Java Specification Request JSR 168 standardized and simplified the portlet model used by Jetspeed and other containers making these older containers and their associated components obsolete Although the Jetspeed container served QuakeSim adequately it required updating to a standard-compliant container to enable interoperability with the rest of the science gateway community In particular interoperability with the closely related SCIGN 1 


Data Portal 4 project's GPS Explorer portal 5 is desirable so that we can exchange user interfaces The QuakeSim portal's current version has been developed using the JSR 168-compliant GridSphere container 6 In place of the Web Form Portlet we have adopted the Apache Portlet Bridges project All portlets are now developed initially as standalone applications using Java Server Faces JSF The JSF portlet bridge can then be used to convert these applications into portlets relatively quickly We find this model to be preferable to working directly with the portlet's programming interface A sample screen shot of a portlet is show in Figure 1 Figure 1 Portlets provide browser-based user interfaces to remote web services The screen shot shows a Google Map interface to real-time GPS station monitoring services The current set of QuakeSim portlets is listed below 1 Disloc a simple Okada 7]-based application for determining surface stress from a given fault model 2 Simplex an inversion of Disloc that uses surface deformation information to determine the best fit fault model 3 GeoFEST Suite a set of codes for modeling faults in realistic materials with finite element meshes 4 RDAHMM a data mining application that automatically classifies modes and patterns in time series data such as Global Positioning System GPS positions 5 Analyze tseri part of the ST-Filter suite of codes that is used for filtering GPS signals to help identify anomalies and 6 Station Monitoring a portlet that provides access to the latest real-time GPS data from the California Real Time Network 8 see also Figure 1 These portlets correspond to horizontal tabs along the top of Figure 1 beneath the logo although this particular layout is optional Future work will include the addition of VirtualCalifornia VC which simulates large interacting fault systems VC GeoFEST Disloc and Simplex all use a variation of the same basic geometric model for representing faults We are currently working to standardize this object representation within the portal and with the QuakeTables fault database 9 developers As we discuss in Section 3 all communications between the portal and remote services use SOAP-based Web services We develop these using the Java programming language although the interactions are programming languageindependent Messages enclosed in the SOAP envelope are mapped on both the portal and server side to simple JavaBeans These data objects are kept purposefully simple the beans consist of only simple types strings integers double precision numbers Input output and other data files are represented using URLs and it is up to the implementation to retrieve the file via HTTP GET as a separate step that is we do not use SOAP attachments to move files or encode files as XML SOAP body elements Most portal applications are designed to support a project and session model users create new projects or else load older projects through web interfaces These projects maintain all metadata parameters used location of remote input and output files etc which the user may edit or delete The projects are assigned unique IDs which are used to maintain multiple versions of the same basic project All beans created by the portal through interactions with remote services are stored in an open source object database DB40 see www.db4o.com This replaces our previous Context Manager service see 2 and provides improved performance and scalability The use of beans also provides a useful integration with built-in Java Server Faces functionality 3 WEB SERVICES The portlets listed in Section 2 are clients to one or more supporting remote Web Services that actually access or generate data Data access services include fault models from the QuakeTables service 9 and GPS data the GRWS service 10 We have also in previous work built Web Service versions of the Open Geospatial Consortium's Web Feature and Web Map services Our focus in this section 2 


will be on revisions to the execution services that manage invocations of remote geophysical applications In the process of upgrading the portal front end we determined that the application services that provide access to executables were in need of upgrading Earlier versions of the QuakeSim system were built around the concept of a generic Application Web Service that could wrap any executable This service was built on generic Web services for running remote commands and interacting with remote file systems For related work in this field see 11 and 12 We found ultimately that our Application Web Service approach tied services too closely to the portal environment Web Services ideally should be self-contained stateless or nearly so and completely self-describing This allows them to bind easily to any client environments such as workflow engines portals and desktop user interfaces It also enables other development groups to use the services with minimal guidance from the developer the service's WSDL provides sufficient information for invocation Our original services did not meet these criteria Designing for generality we embedded too many specific steps such as creating application-specific input files into the portal instead of the service Thus the semantics of invoking the Disloc code for example were not encapsulated in a single WSDL file but rather in Application Web Service metadata Our revised service interfaces have been more an effort of code refactoring and reuse than a complete re-write Our core job management service which extends Apache Ant is still in place but no longer exposed directly as a service Instead all new versions of execution services Disloc Simplex etc extend this parent service in the object oriented sense in their implementation We have likewise attempted to design the WSDL for these services to capture all information needed to invoke a particular code A full listing of the service WSDL descriptions is available from the project code repository 3 but we do not include it here since it is generally unreadable by non-experts Instead we summarize the Disloc service's XML messages below as a simple example other applications follow the same general pattern 1 Fault Model this provides a description of major fault geometric and material properties including latitude and longitude of starting and ending points length width strike slip dip and Lame parameters As mentioned previously this model is reusable across many QuakeSim applications and is being adopted by the revised QuakeTables data service 2 Input Parameters Model Disloc calculates surface displacements associated with the fault at either grid or scatter points provided by the user so we must send this information as well as the fault model parameters The current version of the service supports the grid input model The input parameters model contains all information needed to create this part of the input file 3 Output Model the Disloc service creates input output and standard output files The Output Model XML message contains the URLs for these files on the service In contrast to our earlier execution services we do not have a specific file management service that manages uploads downloads and crossloads between services These are instead done with simple HTTP GET operations These messages are XML encodings that correspond to simple JavaBeans in our implementation They may also be bound to C structs or other simple data structures These messages are used to communicate the details of the desired invocation and its results over the wire We use Apache Axis 1.4 for implementing our services All QuakeSim execution services implement blocking and non-blocking invocations of the executable which are inherited from their generic parent class As the names imply blocking executions keep the connection between the client and service open until the invocation is complete This is useful for codes such as Disloc Simplex Analyze tseri and RDAHMM which take typically only a few seconds to tens of seconds to execute Longer running codes GeoFEST and VirtualCalifornia use non-blocking invocations This allows the service to return immediately but the application will continue to run The user can monitor the application by examining messages from the output files and logs returned as URLs to the portal We also provide a call-back mechanism a simple Event Service stores and retrieves messages The running application's Ant wrapper monitors the major stages of the application started or complete for example and posts state changes to the Event Service Clients such as the portal can query the Event Service to determine the current state This service is admittedly simplistic compared to Web Service standards such as WS-Notification and WSEventing but sophistication has often proven to not be virtue A more serious criticism would be our lack of use of general-purpose distributed event systems We do make extensive use of this in our real-time GPS system described in the next section Output files must be usually plotted to be comprehensible Earlier versions of the portal wrapped Generic Map Tool GMT commands with the generic execution service and we also have implemented the Web Map Service for creating plots More recently however we have found tools such as Google Maps and the associated Keyhole Markup Language KML to be a much better mixture of simplicity interactivity and power We have developed KML services that generate grid and arrow plots useful for 3 


visualizing Disloc and Simplex output These services consume Disloc and Simplex output which are passed to the service via URL although future versions of these execution services may incorporate these internally providing the URL of for the generated KML as another part of the execution services return message Figure 2 QuakeSim plotting services create KML representations of Disloc output that can be displayed in Google Maps embedded into portlets The current portal includes Google Maps portlets that plot the KML files although these are memory limited We use the EGeoXML class a small JavaScript extension to the Google Map API for working with KML which we have found superior to Google Map's GGeoXML class We also provide the KML files for direct download which allows them to be included in Google Earth These are illustrated in Figures 2 and 3 4 REAL-TIME SENSOR SUPPORT In addition to fault models the other major data types that QuakeSim applications must ingest are seismic events and GPS data Archival GPS data services such as GRWS provide daily position data but there is also interest in realtime and custom data products The California Real Time Network CRTN provides online access to GPS position data at 1 Hz and higher rates will be available in the future We have developed a system using topic-based publish/subscribe distributed computing techniques to manage this data This system is described in greater detail in 13 14 and summarized here The basic components are shown in Figure 4 Raw GPS data is passed through a number of filters which act as subscribers to particular input topics and publishers to output topics An example topic is a path-like name that is used to indicate the network or station source and the data format For example the topic name SOPAC/GPS/PARKFIELD/ASCII is used to publish or subscribe to the ASCII formatted data from the Parkfield network The simplest filters are used to de-multiplex the incoming binary GPS stream The CRTN consists of eight subnetworks each with one or more individual GPS stations The de-multiplexing filters translate this binary formatted signal and extract the individual stations data The filters than publishes the data for each GPS station to a new topic Downstream filters can thus receive individual station data for further processing See for example Figure 1 We can also provide more sophisticated filters For example have developed RDAHMM filters that perform mode classification on the real-time positions Figure 3 Generated KML files can also be downloaded and plotted with Google Earth outside the portal 4 


as I RDAI IMM  Filter He4IU1 k"tel our system with use the QuakeSim project are notably easier to parse and manipulate by JavaScript libraries than the as QuakeSim is just beginning to be felt The QuakeSim portal is primarily based are compatible with serverside QuakeSim services will need to be reconsidered to are noticeably lacking in Web 2.0 5 A mi1ow   IozoI R'O porft use simple stateless invocations known are associated with structured topics Support for Grid Computing QuakeSim applications typically run on small computers and clusters in which batch scheduling and related issues are not important This is adequate for codes such as Disloc RDAHMM Simplex and Analyze tseri However only small GeoFEST and VirtualCalifornia simulations can be done this way Rather than revise our Web Services to address issues such as interactions with scheduling and queuing systems we are adapting our infrastructure to work with the Globus toolkit Our Grid Tag Libraries and Beans project extends Java Server Faces to provide components for invoking Grid services This work is part of our broader Grid portal software efforts the Open Grid Computing Environments project 15 B 1cZnb 1?a5 S atSlon AD M M I Figure 4 A QuakeSim's Sensor Grid system successively filters the incoming binary GPS data from the California Real Time Network Arrows indicate network connections B Filter chains more complicated messages typically used by Web Services The re-emergence of JavaScript following the standardization of the XmlHttpRequest class in most major browsers has driven this simplification if not standardization of network messages The impact of Web 2.0 as iGoogle and NetVibes which aggregate content in new capabilities include more serious incompatibility is that Web 2.0 applications more in control of his see if they we are able to with simple filters deliver data with overhead far below the 1 Hz frequency and on server-side Web technologies portlets and Java Server Faces These access to archival and real-time GPS data in collaboration with the SCIGN team 4 and KML generating Web services for plotting vector output We have two categories of future work summarized below QuakeSim Portal and Web 2.0 As described in or her content This similarly simplifies the process of developing some prominent Web 2.0 examples particularly Google Maps on science gateways such as QuakeSim although implementations may be very different For example most Web 2.0 services as Representational State Transfer REST instead of WSDL Message encoding formats used by these services include simple XML RSS ATOM and JSON in place of SOAP These are important to Grid computing but so that associated with specific data products The system is implemented using the NaradaBrokering messaging software www.naradabrokering.org Extensive network performance and scaling analyses are available from 14 To summarize those results we have demonstrated that or subscribers With networks of brokers the system will scale to larger numbers Our tests with two coupled brokers acting as a single logical broker showed scaling to 1500 connections 5 SUMMARY AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we have summarized extensive revisions and enhancements to the QuakeSim infrastructure that supersede the earlier work described in 2 These include complete revisions of the portal and the execution Web services The portal has been updated to meet current component standards and the Web Services have been revised to provide simple self-contained WSDL interfaces Prominent more detail in 16 we have analyzed the so-called Web 2.0 trend in Web programming and have concluded it is architecturally nearly identical to science gateways such as we have shown in Figures 1 and 2 However the use client-side integration See for example Start Pages such a manner superficially similar to JSR 168 portlets but which put the new content when compared to the portlet model On the can be made compatible with Web 2.0's favored message formats Most interesting of all is the investigation of the overlap between Web 2.0 and Grids We will as our laboratory for this research Important areas to be addressed include scalable event management singlesign on security service interoperability and authorization All of these user much a single broker scales to 1000 publishers 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We acknowledge the collaborations of the QuakeSim team John Rundle UC-Davis Lisa Grant UC-Irvine and Dennis McLeod USC We also thank the members of the NASA REASoN project for assistance and collaboration using their GPS services The QuakeSim project is supported by the NASA Earth Science Technology Office 1 Nancy Wilkins-Diehr Special Issue Science Gateways Common Community Interfaces to Grid Resources Concurrency and Computation Practice and Experience Volume 19 Issue 6 Date 25 April 2007 Pages 743-749 2 Marlon E Pierce Geoffrey C Fox Mehmet S Aktas Galip Aydin Harshawardhan Gadgil Zhigang Qi and Ahmet Sayar The Solid Earth Research Virtual Observatory Web Services for Managing Geophysical Data and Applications accepted for publication in PAGEOPH Special Issue for 5th ACES International Workshop Available from 3 QuakeSim QuakeSim 4 S 5 GPS Web Site http://www.quakesim.org at SourceForge CIGN Data Portal Explorer 6 Jason Novotny Michael Russell Oliver Wehrens GridSphere a portal framework for building collaborations Concurrency Practice and Experience 16\(5 503-513 2004 7 Yoshimitsu Okada Surface Deformation Due to Shear and Tensile Faults in a Half-Space 1985 BSSA vol 75 no 4 pp 1135-1154 8 California Real Time Network 9 Chen A Donnellan A McLeod D Fox G Parker J Rundle J Grant L Pierce M Gould M Chung S and Gao S Interoperability and Semantics for Heterogeneous Earthquake Science Data International Workshop on Semantic Web Technologies for Searching and Retrieving Scientific Data Sanibel Island FL October 2003 10 Geophysical Resource Web Services GRWS btp/rasnsin.r/cgDataPotl/wsum ry'p 11 Gopi Kandaswamy Dennis Gannon A Mechanism for Creating Scientific Application Services On-demand from Workflows ICPP Workshops 2006 25-32 6 REFERENCES 


12 Sriram Krishnan Brent Steam Karan Bhatia Kim Baldridge Wilfred W Li Peter W Arzberger Opal SimpleWeb Services Wrappers for Scientific Applications ICWS 2006 823-832 13 Galip Aydin Zhigang Qi Marlon E Pierce Yehuda Bock and Geoffrey C Fox Building a Sensor Grid for Real Time Global Positioning System Data Proceedings of Workshop on Principles of Pervasive Information Systems Design Sunday May 13 2007 In conjunction with Pervasive 2007 Toronto Ontario Canada 14 Galip Aydin Zhigang Qi Marlon E Pierce Geoffrey C Fox Yehuda Bock Architecture Performance and Scalability of a Real-Time Global Positioning System Data Grid Special issue on Computational Challenges in Geosciences in PEPI Physics of the Earth and Planetary Interiors 15 Jay Alameda Marcus Christie Geoffrey Fox Joe Futrelle Dennis Gannon Mihael Hategan Gopi Kandaswamy Gregor von Laszewski Mehmet A Nacar Marlon Pierce Eric Roberts Charles Severance Mary Thomas  The Open Grid Computing Environments collaboration portlets and services for science gateways Concurrency and Computation Practice and Experience Volume 19 Issue 6 Date 25 April 2007 Pages 921-942 16 Marlon E Pierce Geoffrey Fox Huapeng Yuan and Yu Deng Cyberinfrastructure and Web 2.0 Proceedings of HPC2006 July 4 2006 Cetraro Italy Available from http://grids.ucs.indiana.edu/ptliupages/publications/Web2 OChapterFinal.pdf BIOGRAPHY Marlon Pierce is assistant director of the Community Grids Laboratory at Indiana University and leads the portal and services development for the QuakeSim project His research interests include the application of service-oriented architectures and other distributed systems to problems in applied science Pierce has a Ph D in computational condensed matter physics from Florida State University 1998 7 


frames that fall in each one of the subintervals Finally the program uses the number of frames in each subinterval to plot an approximation of the pdf We note that the number of intervals in range of frame types will correspond to the number of points of the pdf approximation This means that if the number of intervals is small then the plot of the approximate pdf will have a small number of points generating some difficulty in trying to determine an approximate pdf for that frame type On the other hand if the number of frames is too large then there is a very good chance that most of the intervals will have a very small number of frames that fall inside of them resulting in a very choppy plot for the pdf approximation Determining a good number of intervals for each type of frames depends in the number of the frames of that type being analyzed Another problem with such an approach is that by changing the number of intervals for the frame type being analyzed in the case in which the number of frames of that type is small the pdf plot generated can change significantly This is due to the fact that a large number of frames may fall on one side of the boundary of such an interval In the case in which one changes the number of intervals these frames will now fall inside a different interval There are some benefits however for using this Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer First of all it provides a very quick plot which is a rough approximation of the frame size distribution Although the approximations generated by the Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer are better the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer generates plots order of magnitude faster Also the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer provides statistics to the user for each type of frames such as mean and variance of frame sizes minimum and maximum frame size Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer In the previous subsection we presented a program which generates a quick and rough approximation of the frame size distribution given the input data from the video traces The problem with that analyzer was that the distribution generated by the program is highly dependent on the quantization level of the ranges of the frame sizes and is generally not a smooth function due to the limited number of frames in the data sets scenario each one of the frames analyzed should be assumed not to have a size which is deterministic but rather comes from a distribution which is centered on that frame size One such distribution generally used for this type of filtration is a Gaussian normal distribution The benefits of using such a filtration are as follows  The distribution generation will not need to use a quantization technique so the program will not suffer from the quantization issue  The frame size distribution generated using such a filtration method will smooth out some of the noise due to the limited number of data points  We have seen that gamma distributions tend to be a good approximation for frame size distribution of each type Since gamma distribution is a smooth function by filtering some of the statistical noise using a filtration it will enable us to better determine the parameters for the gamma distribution which best approximate video for specific mission scenarios Frame Distribution Fitting Tool This tool is used in conjunction with the Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer in order to approximate by a gamma distribution the pdf of the frame sizes for all three types of frames Using this tool the user is able to adjust the two parameters describing the gamma distributions particularly the mean and the K-value which directly influences the variance of the distribution In particular a larger scale will make the distribution taller and narrower For all the data sets the mean of the gamma approximation was taken to be equal to the mean of the true data The K-value was adjusted accordingly in order to best fit the approximation to the true data Analyzed data In this section we present statistical data for the various scenarios proposed This data was gathered using the tools described in the previous sections In Table 2 we provide for each scenario analyzed the mean and the variance of the frame sizes of the I P and B frames We also provide the K-value for the gamma distribution which is centered and the data mean and best approximates the statistical data We plot the approximate gamma distributions for the various types of frames for each one of this scenarios in Figure 3 In this section we present a program which does not suffer from the quantization issue of the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer Also this program filters out some of the statistical noise which is due to the limited data sets We motivate the intuition for this filtration as follows While making a video of a certain mission scenario a small change in the footage i.e the introduction of a small object in the picture may cause a small change in the encoded frame sizes For this reason while trying to derive a generic distribution to characterize a particular type of video 8 


Table 2 Statistical data for the video frame sizes Scenario I Frame P Frame B Frame 1 Mean 11132 2198 1445 Variance 641670 1363699 229042 KValue 1000 40 90 2 Mean 12030 2130 1447 Variance 492274 980614 154652 KValue 1400 18 70 3 Mean 17987 9406 5587 Variance 3727982 2534264 957960 KValue 170 40 36 4 Mean 14865 8024 5288 Variance 12791453 7026961 5181387 KValue 35 10 7 5 Mean 29453 3218 1638 Variance 605856 1624535 169528 KValue 2300 7 20 6 Mean 29940 3419 1791 Variance 985797 894260 191346 K Value 1700 13 20 7 Mean 35390 7721 3091 Variance 24828010 5436021 3807843 KValue 65 12 10 Scenario I I Frames P Frames BFae r,l iFil   S  WSt  X S iil  I Xf,l  1 iii I t 11 1 I 2604t l 1 I F 1 r0 q  gr 1      Scen rio 9 I Frames  P Frames B Frames  W 


Scenario 3 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 4 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 5 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 6 I Frames P Frames B Frames 10 i m U 


Scenario 7 Figure 3 Plots for the frame size distributions for the various scenarios along with the as the SCaN simulator based was available 11 I Frames P Frames B Frames T  I-1 a-2--a 0 0 0 0 0 m on Qualnet 4 TELEMETRY TRAFFIC MODEL Telemetry transmissions from the spacecraft to the command center generally take as follows First some are aperiodic These traffic may represent various instrumentation measurements sensory outputs file downloads etc On the right side of the picture was not partitioned into sub-channels but rather data was transmitted only when it we come to the following conclusions about the packet size distribution for this type of encoding scheme  In the we present we determine the statistical distribution of the type of video which we are interested in transmitting As we note from the above picture the telemetry transmission wastes one can use the traffic synthesizing tool to generate random traffic whose frame statistical distribution approximates the distribution of the traffic which a lot of bandwidth when a lot or blue sky the size of the I frames is relatively small see scenarios 1 4  In the are much smaller than those of I frames see scenarios 1,2,5,6,7  If the main object in the picture is moving quite are multiplexed together Some of these traffics are constant bit rate are described by on the above data a large evenly painted surface a file in a large amount of bandwidth The type of traffic that generally is being transmitted via a telemetry channel is formed by multiple types of traffic which so that each telemetry data has its a particular sub-channel For this reason cases the telemetry transmission will look something like in Figure 5 Contrary to Figure 4 right side in Figure 5 the channel own designated sub-channel see Figure 4 For example in the left side of Figure 4 can be used by network simulation tools such we are interested in analyzing This synthesized traffic generated by we designate each telemetry type to we have seen one can model the frame sizes of the different type of frames by gamma approximations Based or there is very little detail in the pictures i.e the pictures are of even if the picture has many objects with rich detail the sizes of P and B frames even if the background is rather stationary the distribution of the frame sizes is much thicker i.e having higher variance see scenarios 3,4,7 Video synthesis In this section a video synthesizer for MPEG v4 encoded video which has been developed in order to generate sample traffic for live video transmissions The synthesizing of the video traffic is done a gamma distribution Using the tools developed above on preexisting traffic of the type we are interested to transmit one can find the parameters of the gamma distribution which best fit this type of traffic Given the parameters determined by those tools our tool is outputted to a format which some are periodic in nature while others may be event based non-periodic The classical approach to telemetry is to schedule the transmission we see multiple types of traffic some of which a constant bit rate some are periodic and we see the traffic being fit through a channel which has been partitioned into sub-channels Figure 4 Traffic allocated to dedicated channels As a more desirable approach would be to multiplex together all of the transmissions In such case in which the background for the video is dark case in which there is little movement in the background 


Figure 5 Statistically multiplexed traffic We note that in this case we would be able to utilize some of the free channel space for other types of transmissions which may be more delay tolerant see Figure 6 For example in this figure the bottom blue transmission can be thought to be a file which is packetized and needs to be transmitted down from the spacecraft We consider this file to be delay tolerant i.e the data is not needed right away down on the ground and it has a lower priority then the other traffics needed to be transmitted The delay tolerant packets will be transmitted only when the channel is not being fully utilized as to fill in the gaps available in the channel bandwidth This technique will delay the arrival of the delay tolerant traffic but will enable us to more fully utilize our channel bandwidth m T]T m Figure 6 Telemetry traffic along with delay tolerant traffic being sent via a channel We note in above scenario that although the delay tolerant traffic was transmitted at time 0 none of it was able to be transmitted until time 1 Also we note that the final delay tolerant traffic packet was transmitted 9 time instances later then it was received For this reason a buffering scheme must be devised such that all the delay tolerant traffic may be buffered until enough bandwidth for transmission exists Since no specific data was available on the dynamics of the various telemetry type traffics we developed a generic telemetry model which is formed by two types of traffic one constant bit rate which represents the sensory information which is constantly being transmitted down to the ground and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents file download and periodic data updates We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to telemetry constant bit rate  peak of intermittent transmission We will also assume that the intermittent transmission file transfer will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new files are ready to be transferred Using the above model we created a Matlab based tool for synthesizing traffic for simulation purposes The traffic generated by this tool is output to a file in a format which can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 5 COMMAND TRAFFIC MODEL The model for the command will be similar in spirit to the model which we have proposed for telemetry We see the data transmitted for command to be formed by two different types of transmission One constant bit rate which represents calls to various preloaded spacecraft subroutines and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents subroutine uploads to the spacecraft We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to command and we also assume that the intermittent transmission subroutine upload will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new subroutines are ready to be transferred Using this model we have developed a Matlab based traffic synthesizing tool The traffic provided by this tool can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 6 CONCLUSIONS This work has resulted in the development of a suite of traffic models that captures the fundamental types that will be in the space communications environment and in particular These models provide the capability to investigate the new IP-based communications functions and resulting performance that are required by the human exploration missions of NASA's Constellation Program and the Space Communications and Navigation SCaN network's ability to support them Four prototypical traffic models have been developed from which any number of streams may be generated 1 audio/voice 2 real-time motion imager live video 3 telemetry including both regular periodic data as well as intermittent file downloads and 4 command including periodic data as well as intermittent subroutine uploads The voice traffic model stochastically parameterizes calls talk times and talk spurts Multiple audio analysis tools were developed to assist in the derivation of parameters from data samples taken from relevant space missions Using these tools parameters of probability distributions were fit to data taken from Shuttle/ISS archives 12     n 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


