Overview of the MEDLI Project Michael J Gazarik NASA Langley Research Center MS 468 Hampton VA 23681 757-864-1243 Michael.J.Gazarik@Nasa.Gov Michael J Wright NASA Ames Research Center MS 230-2 Moffett Field CA 94035 650-604-4210 Michael.J.Wright\(Nasa.Gov Alan Little F McNeil Cheatwood Jeff A Herath Michelle M Munk Frank J 
Novak NASA Langley Research Center MS 434 Hampton VA 23681 757-864-1656 A.Little@Nasa.Gov F.M.Cheatwood\(Nasa.Gov Jeffrey.A.Herath\(Nasa.Gov Michelle.M.Munk\(Nasa.gov Frank.J.Novak@Nasa.Gov Edward R Martinez NASA Ames Research Center MS 230-2 Moffett Field CA 94035 Edward.R.Martinez@Nasa.Gov Abstract The Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI Project's objectives are to measure aerothermal environments 
sub-surface heatshield material response vehicle orientation and atmospheric density for the atmospheric entry and descent phases of the Mars Science Laboratory MSL entry vehicle The flight science objectives of MEDLI directly address the largest uncertainties in the ability to design and validate a robust Mars entry system 
including aerothermal aerodynamic and atmosphere models and thermal protection system TPS design The instrumentation suite will be installed in the heatshield of the MSL entry vehicle The acquired data will support future Mars entry and aerocapture missions by providing measured atmospheric data to validate Mars atmosphere models and clarify 
the design margins for future Mars missions MEDLI thermocouple and recession sensor data will significantly improve the understanding of aeroheating and TPS performance uncertainties for future missions MEDLI pressure data will permit more accurate trajectory reconstruction as well as separation of aerodynamic and atmospheric uncertainties 
in the hypersonic and supersonic regimes This paper provides an overview of the project including the instrumentation design system architecture and expected measurement response 1,2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 INTRODUCTION 1 MEASUREMENT OBJECTIVES 4 SYSTEM ARCHITECHURE 5 SUMMARY  9 
REFERENCES  10 BIOGRAPHY  10 1 INTRODUCTION MSL is taxing the limits of current modeling capabilities for Mars entry missions Aeroheating uncertainties are greater than 5000 on the heatshield due primarily to early transition to turbulence surface chemistry and ablation induced roughness 
A primary source of this uncertainty is a lack of relevant flight data to validate and improve computational models Flight data are required for engineering validation 1 1 U.S Government work not protected by U.S copyright 2IEEEAC paper 1510 Version 3 Updated December 15 2007 1 


of atmospheric models especially in terms of Martian atmospheric winds and density aerothermodynamics models entry system aerodynamics models and TPS response models The data obtained will allow validation of Earth-based physical models and subscale testing procedures for the Martian carbon-dioxide atmosphere In addition Entry Descent and Landing EDL flight data will allow separation of the atmospheric and aerodynamic performance issues that is not possible with inertial data alone Uncertainties in these models are significant and limit the ability to design and validate a more robust EDL architecture for future planetary missions The database of EDL flight data is sparse with the bulk of data acquired in the 1960s primarily in support of the Apollo program Furthermore for the most part these data sets have not been critically evaluated or used for codevalidation purposes in more than 30 years Recent attempts to propose dedicated flight experiments have failed to reach fruition largely because of budget constraints and competing mission objectives While many early planetary missions contained at least a minimal set of engineering instruments including Pioneer Venus Viking and Galileo attempts to instrument recent science mission vehicles have been largely unsuccessful This policy change was mainly because of conflicting mission assurance concerns and the high priority on utilization of limited financial resources for science payloads While a brief highlight of MEDLI-relevant EDL flight experience is given here a more comprehensive summary of aeroheating flight data is provided in 1 and an overview of the flush air data system flown on the Shuttle is given in 2 In 1976 the two Viking entry vehicles were instrumented with pressure and temperature sensors and provided the first aerodynamic flight data on Mars Both probes were 70degree sphere-cones with an ablative forebody heat shield made of a lightweight silicone-based ablator called SLA561V injected into a phenolic fiberglass honeycomb structure Atmospheric properties along the reconstructed flight trajectories are provided by Seiff and Kirk.3 Each probe included a base pressure sensor and two surfacemounted aft-body temperature sensors one on the fiberglass inner cone and one on the aluminum skin of the outer cone.4 The base pressure sensor was mounted inside the vented aeroshell Three of the four temperature sensors functioned as expected but the sensor on the aluminum outer cone of the Viking I entry vehicle failed near the peak heating point Edquist et al examined the aft-body thermocouple data on Viking I and showed that modern computational tools generally under-predict the measured heating rates.5 The Shuttle Entry Air Data System SEADS was a flush mounted orifice air data system in the nose cap of the Shuttle Orbiter It provided accurate data across the Orbiter speed range throughout the sensible atmospheric flight region Fourteen pressure ports were located in the shape of a cruciform in the nose cap Acquired data when coupled with static pressure ports mounted on the fuselage permitted computation of angle of attack angle of side slip Mach number and velocity.2 In 1997 the entry vehicle of Mars Pathfinder was instrumented with nine thermocouples TCs embedded at various depths within the vehicle's TPS also SLA-561V and three platinum resistance thermometers PRTs used to provide a reference calibration point for the TC data Three of the nine thermocouples including two of three on the backshell returned no useful data and apparently failed prior to or during launch.6 Of the other six thermocouples the temperature data from those on the heatshield TC2TC6 is incorrect because the cold-junction temperature from PRT2 was pegged at the low temperature cutoff during entry This calibration error was partially corrected with pre-launch calibration data and the resulting reconstructed heat flux was consistent with approximately 85 of the predicted laminar fully catalytic level.6 The MEDLI dataset will provide the first non-Earth entry aeroheating data since the Pathfinder mission and will provide more than an order of magnitude more data than all previous Mars entry missions combined The acquired data will help answer some of the fundamental questions relating to leeside turbulent heating levels forebody transition and TPS material response in a carbon dioxide atmosphere and will permit a more accurate trajectory reconstruction as well as enable separation of aerodynamic and atmospheric uncertainties in the hypersonic and supersonic regimes Overview ofMSL The MSL EDL system is a new architecture based on Viking heritage technologies and designed to meet the challenges of landing larger mass payloads on Mars.7 In accordance with level-I requirements the MSL EDL system is being designed to land an 850 kg rover to altitudes as high as 1 km above the Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter MOLA defined areoid and within 10 km of the desired landing site Accordingly MSL will enter and land the greatest entry mass fly the largest aeroshell generate the highest hypersonic lift-to-drag ratio and deploy the largest Disk-Gap-Band supersonic parachute of any previous mission to Mars One primary departure from heritage design is the use of the sky crane terminal descent system which will replace the Pathfinder heritage airbags and lower the rover to the Mars surface on a tether A second major departure from Viking heritage may be the choice of heatshield TPS material Due to the high heating and shear environments encountered during MSL entry the program has recently baselined Phenolic Impregnated Carbon Ablator PICA as the heatshield TPS material with SLA561V carried as a backup PICA has flown previously on Stardust,7 and is the current baseline material for NASA's Orion Crew Exploration Vehicle CEV heatshield One 2 


important distinction is that PICA will require a tiled ablator integration whereas SLA is a monolithic material embedded in a honeycomb structure Major EDL events include the hypersonic guided entry supersonic parachute deploy and inflation subsonic heatshield jettison terminal descent sensor acquisition powered descent initiation sky crane terminal descent rover touchdown detection and descent stage flyaway As shown in Figure 1 MSL contains five major subsystems The cruise stage provides protection and support to the entry vehicle and rover throughout the in-space cruise phase and is jettisoned prior to atmospheric entry The backshell and heatshield form the entry vehicle which houses the rover and descent stage While descending on the subsonic parachute the heatshield is separated from the entry vehicle The descent stage then separates from the backshell and performs the terminal descent and lowers the rover to the Martian surface The major phases of the MSL EDL sequence are discussed in greater detail in 8 BakhCr/uise Stage Descent Stage Heatshield Figure 1 MSL Major Subsystems Overview of MEDLI instrumentation The MEDLI instrumentation suite consists of seven pressure ports and seven integrated sensor plugs as well as supporting electronics and wiring The suite consists of three main subsystems 1 MEDLI Integrated Sensor Plug MISP A circular plug formed from the heatshield TPS material containing four embedded thermocouples and a recession sensor 2 Mars Entry Atmospheric Data System MEADS A series of through-holes or ports in the TPS that connect via tubing to pressure transducers mounted on the heatshield interior 3 Sensor Support Electronics SSE Electronics that condition sensor signals provide power to the sensors and interface to the MSL data acquisition system All instrumentation is installed in the forebody heatshield of the MSL entry vehicle at locations determined by the science team to maximize the value of the aerothermal aerodynamic and TPS material response data The stacked thermocouples will record temperature data at varying depths in the heatshield TPS The recession sensors will measure an isotherm in the thermal protection system as it ablates during atmospheric entry The pressure ports are arranged in a bilaterally symmetric pattern about the stagnation point to provide a flush atmospheric data system from which aerodynamic data can be computed Figure 2 Locations of MISP plugs and MEADS ports on the MSL heatshield The locations of the pressure ports P and sensor plugs T are shown in Figure 2 The heatshield is colored by the predicted peak heating rate during entry No instrumentation was placed in the backshell due to schedule considerations the backshell is on the critical path for the overall aeroshell delivery The MEDLI subsystems are shown in the crosssectional view of the MSL entry vehicle in Figure 3 Timeline and operational concept The MEDLI instrumentation will be operational from approximately ten minutes before atmospheric entry to heatshield separation totaling approximately fourteen minutes in duration Acquired data will be recorded and stored on the MSL rover After landing the data will be transmitted back to Earth for analysis MEDLI instrumentation will generate approximately 0.9 MBytes of 3 


raw data With overhead and synchronization data the total un-margined data volume is expected to be 1.13 MBytes 2 MEASUREMENT OBJECTIVES The MEDLI science package consists of two subsystems The MISP subsystem gathers temperature and recession data to support aerothermal and TPS response model validation while the MEADS system gathers pressure data to support the validation of aerodynamic and atmospheric models Figure 3 MEDLI Instrumentation in MSL entry vehicle Aerothermal/TPS Objectives The design of a low mass and reliable TPS system for Martian atmospheric entry requires an accurate prediction of the encountered aerothermal environment and the subsequent TPS material response The peak heat flux along with surface pressure and shear stress determines the thermal protection material selected for the heatshield while the total integrated heat load and predicted recession determine the required TPS thickness The primary uncertainty in the ability to accurately predict Mars entry heating levels for MSL class vehicles is the onset of turbulent heating Although prior Mars missions were predicted to be dominated by laminar heating the larger lifting higher ballistic coefficient MSL entry vehicle is predicted to transition to turbulence well before the peak heating point on the entry trajectory Significant uncertainties exist in our ability to predict such a turbulent flow particularly in a reacting carbon dioxide atmosphere Baseline turbulent heating levels can be further augmented by roughness effects due to ablation of the TPS material Recent wind tunnel tests in support of MSL have also shown an apparent localized heating augmentation occasionally attributed to transition in the stagnation region of the vehicle A second significant source of aeroheating uncertainty is catalytic heating in a dissociated carbon dioxide atmosphere Catalysis in which the TPS surface facilitates the recombination of incident species can be a large contributor to the total heating rate No fully validated model currently exists to accurately predict the catalytic behavior of Mars capable TPS materials under flight conditions and thus conservative design assumptions are employed to model this effect These aeroheating uncertainties combined with other effects such as angle of attack and atmospheric dispersions result in a 3o uncertainty level of over 50\2600 for this mission.9 A more detailed discussion of the aerothermal modeling needs and current state of the art for future Mars entry missions is given in 10 In regards to TPS material response modeling the primary uncertainty is the recession rate of the TPS material particularly in a dissociated shear flow environment as is encountered on the leeside of the forebody heatshield This is true for either the primary or backup TPS material PICA recession is governed by oxidation of the carbon char which has significant uncertainty in a dissociated carbon dioxide atmosphere In contrast SLA-561V is a glassy ablator and therefore the surface recession is governed by a complex combination of vaporization and glass melt flow above hot wall heat fluxes of approximately 90 W/cm2 driven by shear gradients As of this writing neither material has been tested on the ground in a high enthalpy dissociated carbon dioxide environment and it is unclear whether there is any US facility capable of conducting such a test In contrast the in-depth thermal performance of either TPS material is believed to be comparatively well understood assuming that the surface recession is accurately predicted The primary need for in-depth thermal data is therefore to validate the current TPS performance models in an in-situ flight environment Atmospheric/Aerodynamic Objectives The MEADS subsystem will demonstrate the hypersonic through low supersonic performance of a blunt body Flush Atmospheric Data System FADS during a high-energy entry using in-situ pressure measurements and will allow a more accurate assessment of the aerodynamic and aerothermodynamic performance of the entry system The acquisition of a series of local discrete surface pressure measurements on the MSL entry aeroshell during the atmospheric entry and decent phase in conjunction with the MSL flight system inertial measurement unit IMU data will allow a more accurate post-flight reconstruction of the complete entry aeroshell states and atmospheric environmental data including low altitude wind information at supersonic conditions In particular the acquired pressure data will allow a more accurate estimation of the dynamic pressure qbar angle-of-attack c and angle-of sideslip 1 by allowing separation of the aerodynamic and atmospheric density uncertainties In addition the measured pressure data coupled with the IMU data will allow the determination of the atmospheric 4 


one of the MSL Rover Compute Elements RCE for storage until the data set is sent to Earth after landing Table 1 Aerothermal/TPS Science Objectives same for both PICA and SLA In terms of data reduction PICA is preferred from are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 In each table the objectives are listed in the first column and the set of instrumentation ports are listed in the subsequent columns The objectives shown with gray shading partially satisfy the original science goals Maximizing satisfaction of these objectives determined both the total number and placement of instrumentation over an RS-422 bus The DPAM then relays the data to P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 Basic Pressure Distribution X X X X X X vary considerably within the Martian atmosphere In January 2004 the Mars Exploration Rover MER entry vehicles successfully landed are used to satisfy the objective density which is known to an improved understanding of the Mars entry incident aerothermal and aerodynamic environments As stated previously the TPS-centric objectives recession and subsurface response can only be inferred from the baseline MEDLI instrumentation suite As seven pressure ports and Technical Objectives Location Ti T2 T3 T4 T5 T6 T7 Basic Aeroheting x x x x x x x Stagnation Point Heating x x Turbulent Leeside Heating x x x x x TPS Recession Rate x x x x x Windside Heating _ _ Augmentation6X TPS Total Recession x x x x x Subsurface Material Response x x x x x x x Table 2 Aerodynamic/Atmospheric Science Objectives Angle of Attack x x x x x MEDLI utilizes three basic measurements in combination to achieve its science objectives Temperature Isotherm motion and Pressure  Temperature measurements will be made using commercial type-K thermocouples installed at various depths within the TPS material  Isotherm motion measurements will be made using more straightforward 3 SYSTEM ARCHITECHURE MEDLI consists of seven integrated sensors are wired to the SSE that provides electrical power conditions and digitizes the sensor signals The digital data stream is sent to the on the Martian surface However the descent of the MER rover entry vehicles exhibited larger dispersions in angle-of-attack than expected Expected angles-of-attack on the MSL heatshield however other mission constraints prevented the MEDLI suite from fully answering all proposed objectives In particular as that provided by MEADS would have greatly improved the post-flight trajectory reconstruction and assisted in the identification of the root-cause of the observed flight dynamic anomalies Summary of Science Objectives Based on the preceding discussion a set of twelve science objectives were on the order of 1-2 degrees while post-flight reconstruction suggested 4-9 degrees were exhibited While was identified a pressure data set such was defined for MEDLI These or plugs that a further understanding of the importance of catalytic heating on the overall basic heating rate are equally important for either TPS material selection As are relatively insensitive to the choice of TPS material In particular the number and location of key sensors plugs and ports remain the sensor plugs all installed in the forebody heatshield of the MSL vehicle The a series of Hollow aErothermal Ablation and Temperature HEAT sensors developed at NASA Ames Research Center The resulting data allow reconstruction of the local TPS recession rate MSL Descent Stage Power and Analog Module DPAM 5 Location Technical Objectives seen from Tables 1 and 2 the majority of the science objectives for MEDLI involve a cause for the dispersion a consequence the science requirements of MEDLI a MISP standpoint since the thermal performance of the material is much simpler and thus data reduction reconstruction of incident aeroheating from subsurface temperature measurements will be 


 Pressure measurements will be made using pressure transducers mounted on the inside of the MSL heatshield and connected to the outside surface through tubing and a through-hole port in the TPS material MISP plug and the cavity in the TPS SLA shown with heatshield structure in which it is installed using a standard LMSSC TPS repair technique MEDLI utilizes one autonomous mode upon initiation of power the SSE will begin conditioning and digitizing the sensor signals From cruise stage separation until heatshield separation the DPAM will request the MEDLI sensor data from the SSE and the RCE in the rover will request and store the acquired data from the DPAM The DPAM will request the data from each address assigned to MEDLI at a 64 Hz rate The SSE multiplexes the MEDLI data into these addresses achieving effective sample rates of 8 Hz 2 Hz and lHz for its various sensors This data is held in a buffer in the DPAM and transferred across the EDL-1553 bus at the request of the RCE These are standard functions of the DPAM and RCE and require only changes to the look-up table that selects the channels to be sampled and their sample rate MSL Accommodations MSL provides the accommodations for the MEDLI instrumentation and avionics MSL provides the mechanical electrical and avionics interfaces as shown in Figure 4 The MEDLI mass allocation is 12.5 kg on the heatshield for the SSE MEADS and MISP and 2.5 kg on the backshell for power avionics cabling and the associated cable cutters The power allocation for MEDLI is 30W during EDL while no power is provided during the launch and cruise phases The avionics interface to the DPAM is an RS-422 bus The memory allocation in the RCE is 1.5 Mbytes for storage of the acquired data The cable harness from the SSE to the DPAM is routed through a cable cutter at the heatshield/backshell interface and then through a second cable cutter at the descent stage/backshell interface The components mounted on the inside of the heatshield the MEADS transducers and the SSE are fastened to standard inserts in the heatshield structure with thermal isolation standoffs A custom designed through-hole with a stainless steel sleeve provides a clear and secure path from the port in the TPS through the heatshield honeycomb structure to the pressure transducer mounted in the heatshield interior The sensor plugs will be integrated into the TPS by Lockheed Martin Space Systems Corporation LMSSC using a flight-qualified TPS repair procedure MISP MISP is an instrumented plug that is installed in the TPS Each plug is made from the heatshield TPS material and includes four embedded thermocouples at varying depths and one recession sensor The sensor wiring is routed through penetrations in the TPS behind each plug and through the heatshield structure Figure 5 illustrates the Backshel  Heatsh Figure 4 MSL Accommodations and Interfaces Each MISP plug is 33 mm 1.3 in diameter with a total depth of 20.3 mm 0.8 and contains four Type K thermocouples The thermocouples are installed in a Ushaped design at 2.54 5.08 10.16 15.24 mm 0.1 0.2 0.4 and 0.6 from the surface of the plug The plug itself is installed flush to the overall outer surface of the TPS The MISP plug does not extend all the way to the structural interface bondline Therefore since TC depths are defined from the outer surface the overall MISP design is insensitive to changes in the heatshield TPS thickness The top two thermocouples in each plug are used primarily to reconstruct the aerothermal environment during entry and descent while the two deeper thermocouples are used to validate the thermal response of the TPS material At some locations the near surface thermocouples may fail during descent due to over temping This is expected and occurs due to the desire to select a single set of TC depths that is globally optimized for all seven locations and a wide variety of possible entry trajectories The recession sensor named Hollow aErothermal Ablation and Temperature HEAT is shown schematically in Figure 6 The HEAT sensor measures the temporal progression of a 700 K isotherm through the TPS during entry and descent This sensor operates on similar principles to the Analog Resistance Ablation Detector ARAD flown on the Galileo probe,12 but the design has been significantly modified to allow for accommodation into a variety of TPS materials and to produce improved signal quality and reduction of signal dropouts A constant current excitation of 1 mA is provided by the SSE The sensor element becomes electrically conductive as the surface of the TPS and the HEAT sensor is charred As the char layer-virgin material interface advances the HEAT length and voltage output decreases The measurement range is 0 to 13 mm 0 to 0.52 from the TPS outer mold line with a measurement 6 


accuracy of 261 0.5 mm The HEAT sensor is sampled at 8 Hz by the SSE More information on the development and operation of the HEAT sensor can be found in 13 than 850 Pa enable reconstruction of the dynamic pressure qbar within 261 2.0 percent of measured value reconstruct Mach number within 261 0.1 reconstruct angle of attack a within 261 0.5 degrees and reconstruct angle of sideslip A within 261 0.5 degrees each MEDLI pressure transducer will be calibrated to produce outputs that are 261 0.5 percent of reading between 850 Pa and 30 kPa I mzMMO w.w Res I 1 Resiv wowtd 2 Figure 6 Schematic of HEAT sensor Figure 5 MISP Plug and Acreage TPS/heatshield structure cavity The TC measurement junctions are aligned with the center axis of the plug The science measurement range requirement is 100 to 1300 K with an accuracy of 261 2.2 K or 2.0 below 273 K and 261 1.1 K or 0.40o above 273 K The depth of the TCs with respect to the TPS outer mold line is 261 0.13 mm 0.005 The near surface TCs are sampled at 8 Hz and the more slowly varying mid-depth and deep TCs are sampled at either 1 or 2 Hz depending on the location Cold junction temperature measurement is performed at the SSE and data reduction of all sensor measurements is performed during ground post-processing The final MISP design and TPS integration process were validated via a series of developmental and risk reduction arc jet tests in the Aerodynamic Heating Facility AHF at NASA Ames Research Center Testing has been performed for integration into both SLA-561V and PICA MEADS In order to meet the aeroscience measurement objectives namely when the free stream dynamic pressure is greater As shown in Figure 7 the MEADS subsystem consists of three main components a port through the TPS pressure tube and spool through the heatshield structure and a pressure transducer Through a series of arc jet tests conducted at the Boeing-St Louis Large Core Arc Tunnel Facility the port diameter of 2.54 mm 0.1 was found to meet the accuracy and durability requirements Additional testing has also shown that a sleeve through SLA-561V is not required Testing found that pyrolysis gases from SLA561V did not significantly affect the pressure reading The need for a sleeve in PICA will be determined in a similar arc jet test series scheduled for early 2008 at the Boeing arc jet facility To simplify the interface to the heatshield a stainless steel spool provides a clear pathway through the aluminum honeycomb interior A fitting allows connection to the stainless steel tube The tube finally connects to the pressure transducer head The pressure transducer head is mounted through three mounts to standard inserts The tube transducer and fittings require a volume of 76 x 86 x 183 mm 3.0 x 3.4 x 7.2 in the interior of the heatshield This volume is sufficient to ensure clearance within the heatshield interior In order to avoid crossing composite sheet interfaces three configurations with slightly different orientations are required The entire subsystem is designed 7 


to meet 23 grms launch loads and 28 grms entry loads as required by MSL Standoffs provide clearance for MSL's multi-layer insulating MLI blanket located on the interior of the heatshield The pressure path is simple and requires two flare fitting connections between the heatshield outer mold line OML and the pressure transducer The selection of stainless steel for the tubing mitigates the risk of bumthrough during entry The pigtail in the tube provides strain relief for mechanical and thermal distortions during launch cruise and entry Since power is not provided to MEDLI during the cruise phase the expected thermal environment at the pressure transducer location prohibited incorporating conditioning electronics in the gauge head Through a two wire interface the pressure reading is transmitted to the SSE where the signal is appropriately conditioned Key aspects of the transducer specification are shown in Table 3 Table 3 MEADS Pressure Transducer Specifications Key Parameter Specification Pressure range 0-35kPa 0-5 psia Accuracy 0.500 of reading Temperature range 225\260C to 125\260C Mass less than 368 grams digital converter Each sample is 16 bits wide with two bits reserved for data synchronization MEDLI will generate approximately 0.9 MBytes during operations The raw data rate from MEDLI to the DPAM is 4 kilobits per second The DPAM will add 1/64 second time tags 16 bits each to each data frame resulting in an additional 225 Kbytes for 30 minutes of operation The total MEDLI data volume is expected to be 1.13 MBytes Memory is allocated in the Rover Compute Element RCE when MEDLI instrumentation is activated approximately ten minutes before atmospheric interface and is held until the MEDLI data is transmitted to Earth 6.35mm 0.25 OD 0.89mm 0.035 wall Stainless Steel Tube with Strain Relief Loop A r  S Spool Insert Pressure Transducer Sensor Head Kl 3xG-10 standoffs V 3x Inserts   NAS-1 832 Spool Through a Request For Proposal RFP acquisition process a source selection board selected transducers from Stellar Technology Incorporated STI that utilize a strain gauge pressure measurement approach The temperature of each transducer head is also recorded through a TC mounted on each transducer housing SSE The SSE contains two electronic boards housed in a 76.2 x 247.7 x 336.6 mm 3.0 x 9.75 x 13.25 aluminum chassis The 158.75 x 304.8 mm 6.25 x 12.0 digital board contains the RS-422 interface and power interface to the DPAM An ACTEL field-programmable gate array will manage the analog-to-digital converter and provide the RS422 electrical interface The digital board also provides conditioning of the MSL provided 28V power and conversion to 15.OV 5.OV and 2.5V power and contains the pressure transducer signal conditioning electronics The analog board also 158.75 x 304.8 mm 6.25 x 12.0 in size contains the interface for up to 24 thermocouples from the sensor plugs up to seven thermocouples for the pressure transducers up to six HEAT sensor inputs and the pressure transducer signals conditioned on the digital board A multiplexer routes all inputs into a single 14 bit analog-toFigure 7 MEADS Overview Each of the TC inputs and HEAT inputs use transient voltage suppressors to ensure that sensor anomalies do not damage the processing electronics In addition to the sensor signals a series of housekeeping signals including cold junction compensation CJC signals reference voltages and chassis temperature are recorded As shown in Table 4 77 channels are recorded in total Table 5 shows the sample strategy for the MISP plugs The sample rates for each TC were determined based on expected responses from aerothermal and TPS thermal response modeling analysis In each plug TC1 is the TC nearest the OML 2.54 mm 0.1 depth and TC4 is nearest the bondline 15.24 mm 0.6 depth The interface to the DPAM limits the number of channels and sample rate The HEAT sensor from location T4 is at the stagnation point where little recession is expected Hence its signal will not be recorded this channel was employed for additional reference temperature and HEAT calibration measurements The deeper TCs at locations T5 and T7 will not be recorded because only 24 total TC channels are available and these four locations were prioritized lowest in terms of satisfaction of MISP science objectives 8 


Table 4 Channel Allocation Sensor Type Number Sample of Rate Channels Thermocouple 12 8 Hz Thermocouple 4 2 Hz Thermocouple 8 1 Hz Thermocouple Baseline Reference 4 1 Hz Thermocouple Local Calibration 4 1 Hz Keat Sensors 6 8 Hz Heat Sensor Local Calibration 2 1 Hz Pressure Sensors 7 8 Hz Pressure Baseline Reference j 1 1 Hz Pressure Temperatures 7 1 Hz Pressure Temp Baseline 1 1 Hz Reference CJC Temperatures 3 1 Hz Housekeeping Temperatures 3 j 1 Hz Temperature Local Calibration 2 1 Hz Housekeeping Voltages 8 1 Hz On-board Reference Voltages j 5 1 Hz Total 77 Table 5 MISP Sample Strategy Plug TC1 TC2 TC3 TC4 HEAT ID Ti 8 Hz 8 Hz 1Hz 1Hz 8 Hz T2 8 Hz 8 Hz 2 Hz 2 Hz 8 Hz T3 8 Hz 8 Hz 1Hz 1Hz 8 Hz T4 8 Hz 8 Hz 1Hz 1Hz None T5 8 Hz 8 Hz None None 8 Hz T6 8 Hz 8 Hz 1Hz 1Hz 8 Hz T7 2 Hz 2 Hz None None 8 Hz The SSE chassis design is largely driven by thermal requirements Standoffs provide thermal isolation from the cold heatshield and provide clearance for MSL's interior MLI blanket The SSE location was chosen to minimize interference with the MSL rover and located under the rover's Radioisotope thermoelectric generator RTG to take advantage of the thermal energy provided by the RTG especially during the cruise phase when no power is provided to MEDLI The chassis surface will be anodized black to provide high thermal absorption and reduce glint For ease of cable routing one side of the chassis will house all sensor connections while the opposite side will house all descent stage connections The box will be vented through a 0.2 micron high efficiency particulate air HEPA filter to allow pressurization equalization and meet planetary protection requirements 4 SUMMARY Authorized by NASA in late 2006 MEDLI is the most recent effort to acquire much needed EDL engineering flight data from planetary probe missions Expected to enter the Martian atmosphere in 2010 MEDLI instrumentation installed in the entry vehicle of MSL will provide thermal recession and pressure data that will capture important measurements of the aerothermal environments sub-surface heatshield material response vehicle orientation and atmospheric density of the Martian atmosphere The flight science objectives of MEDLI directly address the largest uncertainties in the ability to design and validate a robust Mars entry system including aerothermal aerodynamic and atmosphere models and thermal protection system design 9 


5 REFERENCES 1 Wright M.J Milos F.S and Tran P Afterbody Aeroheating Flight Data for Planetary Probe Thermal Protection System Design Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets Vol 43 No 5 2006 pp 929-943 2 Pruett C D Wolf H Heck M L and Siemers III P.M Innovative Air-Data System for the Space Shuttle Orbiter Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets Vol 20 No 1 1983 pp 61-69 3 Seiff A and Kirk D Structure of the Atmosphere of Mars in Summer at Mid-Latitudes Journal of Geophysical Research Vol 82 Sept 1977 pp 43644378 4 Martin-Marietta Corp Entry Data Analysis for Viking 1 and 2 NASA CR1593 88 Nov 1976 5 Edquist K.T Wright M.J and Allen G.A Viking Afterbody Heating Computations and Comparison to Flight Data AIAA Paper No 2006-03 86 Jan 2006 6 Milos F Chen,Y.-K Congdon W and Thornton J Mars Pathfinder Entry Temperature Data Aerothermal Heating and Heatshield Material Response Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets Vol 36 No 3 1999 pp 380391 7 Covington M Balboni J Chen Y Goldstein H Olejniczak J and Terrazas-Salinas I Perfor-mance of a Low Density Ablative Heat Shield Material AIAA Paper No 2004-2273 Jun 2004 8 Steltzner A Kipp D Chen A Burkhart D Guernsey C Mendeck G Mitcheltree R Powell R Rivellini T San Martin M and Way D Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing System IEEE Paper No 2006-1307 Mar 2006 9 Edquist K Dyakonov A Wright M and Tang C Aerothermodynamic Environment Definition for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Capsule AIAA Paper No 2007-1206 Jan 2007 10 Wright M.J Edquist K.T Hollis B.R Brown J and Olejniczak J Review of Aerothermal Modeling for Current and Future Mars Entry Missions IEEE Paper No 2006-1428 Mar 2006 11 Tolson R.H Willcockson W.H Desai P.N Thomas P Anomalistic Disturbance Torques during the Entry Phase of the Mars Exploration Rover Missions A Telemetry and Mars-Surface Investigation 29t Annual AAS Guidance and Control Conference AAS 06-087 12 Milos F Chen,Y.-K Squire T and Brewer R Analysis of Galileo Probe Heatshield Ablation and Temperature Data Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets Vol 36 No 3 1999 pp 298-306 13 Oishi T Martinez E Fu J Santos J Mach J Gorbunov S and Kihara S Development and Application of a TPS Ablation Sensor for Flight to be presented at the AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting Jan 2008 6 BIOGRAPHY Michael Gazarik is the Branch Chief for the Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA RSFSB conducts development and research in advanced electro-optical and optical instrument systems leading to state-of-the-art instrument development for both remote sensing and in-situ measurements Dr Gazarik served as the Project Manager for MEDLI during the project's formulation and early design phases In the late 1990s Dr Gazarik served as a Project Manager for the Geosynchronous Imaging Fourier Transform Spectrometer GIFTS project and supported the NOAA Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite GOES program while at MIT Lincoln Laboratory In industry Dr Gazarik led teams developing physical layer software for 3G cellular basestations for Texas Instruments and firmware for Asynchronous Digital Subscriber Line ADSL systems for Aware Inc He received his Ph.D and MS in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1997 and 1989 respectively and his BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh in 1987 Michael Wright is a Senior Research Scientist at the NASA Ames Research center in the Reacting Flow Environments Branch specializing in computational aerothermodynamics and thermal protection system material resposne for Earth and planetary entry vehicles He is the developer of the DPLR hypersonic CFD code which is the primary aerothermodynamic analysis tool at Ames Dr Wright has authored or coauthored more than 75 papers in the field and is the twotime recipient of the AIAA Best Thermophysics Paper award 2001  2004 Dr Wright received his Ph.D in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Minnesota in 1997 and is an Associate Fellow of the AIAA Dr Wright is currently working on MSL both as the deputy TPS cognizant engineer and as the deputy principle investigator for MEDLI February 2006 10 


Alan Little is the MEDLI Project Manager at NASA's Langley Research Center He previously served on a variety of earth remote sensing missions and recently served as the NASA-CNES interface manager and the payload assembly integration and test manager on the joint NASAICNES CALIPSO Mission that was launched in April 2006 He has a MS in Optics from the University of Rochester Neil Cheatwood earned B.S MS and Ph.D degrees in aerospace engineering from NC State University He has played key roles in a number of NASA's planetary atmospheric flight programs and is a nationally recognized expert in aerosciences and flight mechanics for planetary entry systems He is currently serving as the Hypersonics Project Scientist for the Fundamental Aeronautics Program with NASA's ARMD Dr Cheatwood is also the Principle Investigator for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project In recent years he led NASA LaRC efforts to develop inflatable aeroshell technologies He served as CoInvestigator to Claude Graves of NASA JSC on the NASA ESMD ESR&T Inflatable Aeroshell and TPS Development IA TD Project He served as the Principle Investigator for NASA LaRCs Inflatable Reentry Vehicle Experiment IRVE as well as the follow-on Program to Advance Inflatable Decelerators for Atmospheric Entry PAI-DAE Dr Cheatwood was responsible for aerodynamic databases of Stardust Mars Microprobe Genesis and Mars Exploration Rovers He has also contributed to the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Sample Return flight projects Dr Cheatwood is an AIAA Associate Fellow and the principle author or co-author of 60 technical publications in the fields of fluid dynamics atmospheric entry and systems engineering Jeff Herath serves as the Lead Systems Engineer and Chief Engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI He also serves as the Assistant Head of the Atmospheric Flight and Entry Systems Branch AFESB to plan direct and coordinate Branch activities in the areas offlight and entry systems research and development Mr Herath previously was the Acting Assistant Branch Head for Electronic Systems and served as the branch leadfor new business activities proposals and their development He was also the Principal Investigator PI for the Radiation Tolerant Intelligent Memory Stack RTIMS Project which successfully developed and demonstrated an in-flight reconfigurable radiation tolerant stacked memory array He co-founded Vianix LC a company developing and licensing voice compression technology and served as its Chief Technology Officer He developed the company's voice compression technology and was responsible for all research  development engineering personnel and production efforts He has 6 patents As Manager of Hardware Development at Arc Second Inc he designed and built a unique laser based three-dimensional positioning system which opened new markets for the company At E-Systems he successfully completed several military avionics programs and payload that were classified and consisted of system box and board level designs Michelle Munk has been a NASA employee for nearly 20 years first at the Johnson Space Center then at the Langley Research Center She has been involved in Mars advanced mission studies for many years both robotic and human contributing interplanetary trajectory analysis and entry and descent analysis She has managed the delivery of International Space Station hardware and was on the Mars Odyssey aerobraking operations team In 2002 Ms Munk accepted a detail assignment to become the Lead Engineer for Aerocapture Technology Development under In-Space Propulsion at Marshall Space Flight Center She managed the technical work of ISP Aerocapture for nearly 5 years before becoming the Project Area Manager and returning to Langley in 2007 Ms Munk is also a subsystem leadfor the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project and contributes to other NASA projects developing entry system technologies She has a BSAE from Virginia Tech and completed graduate coursework at the University of Houston Frank Novak is an Assistant Branch Head for Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA He serves as the MEDLI Subsystem Manager for the Sensor Support Electronics SSE system Mr Novak has over 20 years of experience in the design development and test of spaceflight electronics He served as the lead development manager for the EVA IR Camera Project lead engineer for the visible imager for the GIFTS project lead electronics engineer for the pointing spectrometer for the Mars ARES project lead integration and test engineer for the SAGE III project and lead engineer for the interface adaptor module for SAGE III He earned a BS in Physics from Christopher Newport University in 1999 11 


Ed Martinez is a Project Manager/Lead Scientist/Project Engineer with 20 years experience in the aerospace and electromechanical field He is responsible for leading the Thermal Protection System TPS instrumentation programs for the NASA Ames Research Center As Project Manager he simultaneously managed multiple teams of scientists engineers and engineering technicians responsible for TPS projects including test analysis and technology advancement As Lead Scientist he was engaged in the characterization and operations of the world's largest shock tube This facility produced simultaneous overpressure and thermal environments at shock speeds up to Mach 5 As a Project Engineer his experience included project initiation coordination and providing design and instrument criteria for operating multi-100 million dollar DoD facilities Mr Martinez also managed data handling performed analysis reporting of test results and maintained technical proficiency in shockwave phenomenology 12 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


