  MRRS-2008 Symposium Proceedings. Kiev, Ukraine, September 22-24, 2008 Microwave Study of Ferroelectrics in Waveguide Y. Poplavko  V. Molchanov  V. Pashkov  Y. Prokopenko, V. Kazmirenko  A. Yeremenko   J.-C. Carru  D. Fasquelle  and M. Mascot    
Microelectronics Department, National Technical University of Ukraine 37, Peremogi Ave. Kiev 03056, Ukraine  poplavko@ieee.org   Universit\351 du Littoral-C\364te d\222Opale 50 rue F. Buisson, BP717, , Calais, France carru@univ-littoral.fr  Abstract 227 Peculiar feature of ferroelectrics is high dielectric permittivity which sometimes is accompanied by very big loss tangent tan 
This is a reason of diffi culties to obtain accurate characterization despite of vari ety of techniques available. This report is devoted to the selectio n of proper waveguide method for specific cases of bulk or film materials investigation to obtain reliable data of their and tan  I  I NTRODUCTION  Main difference of ferroelect rics and related materials is their large dielectric constant 10 2 
226 10 4 metimes, this high is accompanied with big loss factor \(tan 0.01 \226 1 Related materials with tan 10 3 with 10 2 are also available, and quite different methods should be used to characterize them High materials are important for numerous applications in microwave components such as dielectric resonators 
dielectric substrates, decoupling capacitors, absorbent materials, phase shifters, etc Ferroelectrics are important obj ect in solid state physics as well because of their phase transitions. Lattice dynamics theory predicts strong anomalies in ferroelectric properties just at the microwaves. Ferroel ectric domain switching in thin films also takes place at microwaves. Therefore, accurate and reliable measuring of dielectric constant and loss in ferroelectrics and related materials remains an actual problem of material science as we ll as electronic industry Main microwave methods used for high 
materials study are classified in Fig. 1. At present, methods for microwave measurement of usual dielectrics with of about 2\226100 and low loss are well developed. Some of them use vector network  so me studies dedicated to ferr  Neve rthel e ss, this technique should be improved now using the vast possibilities of present-day microwave network analyzers Because of high permittivity, microwave measuring of ferroelectrics faces difficu lties. Open systems such as microstrip line suffer from approximations, while coaxial line 
is inconvenient to make ceramics or crystal samples of cylinder or disk form In some ferroelectric crystals dielectric properties are strongly anisotropic, and require investigation in the onedirectional electric field The major problem of high dielectric microwave study is a poor interaction of electromagnetic wave with studied specimen Due to the difference in the wave impedance, most part of electromagnetic energy reflects  from air-dielectric boundary and can not penetrate the specimen. That is why, short 
circuited waveguide method exhibit lack of sensitivity. If the loss of dielectric is also big, the sample of a few millimeters length looks like \223endless\224. For the same reason, in the transmission experiment, only a small part of electromagnetic Fig 1. Microwave methods of ferroelectrics` study   978-1-4244-2688-1/08/$25.00 \2512008 IEEE 


  MRRS-2008 Symposium Proceedings. Kiev, Ukraine, September 22-24, 2008  energy passes through the sample to output that is not sufficient for network anal yzer accurate operation II  B ULK FERROELECTRICS STUDY  Short-circuit line and transmission/reflection methods were introduced years ago. Ho wever, reliable and accurate measurement of ferroelectric materials with extremely high permittivity and loss still remains an actual problem   Fig. 2. Measurement scheme a hort-circuit line method b mission  reflection method  The air filled section of waveguide, the transformer, and the testing sample are represented by normalized transmission matrices which are the functions of lengths and electromagnetic properties of neighbor areas. Transmission matrices of whole network can be obtained by the multiplication of each area transmission matrices T   11  nn  TTT T  In drawn formula the matrix that correspond the first area on the wave\222s way is rightmost in product. Then, for the convenience, the network transmission matrices can be converted into scattering ma trices whose parameters are measured directly   Fig. 3. Measured data and processing. 1.51mm BaTiO 3 with 6.56mm teflon transformer, reflection experiment  Proper choice of weight is a function important for correct data processing. Among possible ways, there are weighted derivatives, and the modulus of reflection or transmission coefficients. These methods emphasize the influence of points near the minimum values of the reflection or transmission which just exactly have the highest sensitivity to properties of studied material The choice between short-circ uited line or transmission reflection methods depends on which method has better sensitivity, and should be applied individually Three common and easily available materials were used for experimental study \(Table I\. Samples were prepared in the rectangular shape that is adjusted to X-band waveguide cross section. Side edges of samples for all experiments were covered by silver paste  TABLE  I S TUDIED M ATERIALS  Material Reflection Transmission tan   tan  TiO 2  96 0.01 95 0.01 SrTiO 3  290 0.02 270 0.017 BaTiO 3  590 0.3    Proposed technique, especially short-circuited waveguide holder, enables to conduct investigations of and  temperature dependence that are interested of ferroelectric materials. Introduced conception of partial filling of waveguide with studied material facilitates the examination of expensive or rare materials when big sample is difficult to prepare III  D IFFERENT METHODS OF FERROELECTRIC FILMS STUDY  Deposited on a substrate large ferroelectric film is one of microwave material of increasing technical interest. Such film is very promising for applications in the monolithic microwave integrated circuits \226 MMIC. Ferroelectric films are applied as by-pass on-chip capacitors, voltage tunable capacitors [3 freq u e n c y ag ile reso n a n t  filters 4 m i cro w av e phase shifters for steerable antenna  The calculation and design of mentioned devices need an exact value of the film parameters and tan obviously measured at microwaves. In-p rocess measurement of film dielectric parameters is important for experimental specification during film deposition and annealing The accurate measurement of fe rroelectric films dielectric properties is an actual problem for material science as well. A comparison of bulk-to-film change properties is an interesting question of ferroelectric physics. Ferroelectrics are highly sensitive to any influence. It is important to learn about what is changed when bulk ferroelectric crystal \(that is a threedimensional, 3-D\sforme d into a thin crystalline layer 2-D film\ous studies of ferroelectric films at low frequencies describe mostly ferroelectric domains and impurities behavior, while microwave investigation should characterize crystal lattice prope rties. So ferroelectric film  and tan parameters, obtained at microwaves, reflect fundamental polariza tion mechanism [6 Considerable change in bulk-to-film abilities could be either favorable or an adverse factor for microwave electronic devices. Good example is a ferroelectric solid solution of Ba,Sr\O 3 BST that is the most studied material for 


  MRRS-2008 Symposium Proceedings. Kiev, Ukraine, September 22-24, 2008  microwave applications. Tunability in film is weaker than in bulk ceramic. However, lucky for many microwave devices BST film dielectric permittivity film 10 2 10 3 any times less than dielectric constant of ceramics 10 3 10 4  that is very important for device matching with the microwave line. Temperature dependence of film is much smoothed comparing to bulk ceramics that provides more thermal stability of film based device [7  The problem is that ferr oelectric film microwave properties are difficult to measur e due to its large dielectric permittivity and very small thic kness. Moreover, ferroelectric film dielectric permittivity might be anisotropic parameter \(it is a second rank tensor\Its normal component n may be as greater so lesser than in-plane component  Many methods of ferroelectric film investigation at radiofrequencies and microwaves are possible [1 El a b o r at ed  methods can be divided on two groups: with and without electrodes, Fig. 2 A parallel plate miniature capacitor is formed with electrodes deposition and can be used to determine n 9 whereas a planar capacitor is suitable to measure 4 By similar way, the microstrip transmission line can be used to find the normal component n whereas coplanar transmission line allows to get tangential component Fig. 4 Without electrodes, employ ing microwave microscope 11 it is po ssi b l e t o esti m a te  n but only in a very little local area of the film. By scanning the average data might be obtained. Such data are required to study film imperfections However, the integral parameter of a whole film might be quite different form local valu es of dielectric permittivity Microwave devices mostly use in-plane component  Consequently, in-process of measurement of integral \(whole film\eters is important for experimental specification during film depositio n and annealing. Therefore film laboratory test should be a non-destructive one. In this case the same film, preliminarily studied at the microwaves might be used for device fabrication Microwave methods of ferroelectric film investigations are exam 8 wh ile r e v iew 9] car r ied  o u t th e analysis of films parameters obtained at microwaves. There are only solitary mentions as to electrode-less study of ferroelectric film. These data relates to a polycrystalline film only. Firstly, by the quasi-optical method, in the frequency range of 300-600 GHz, obtained by sol-gel technology, ~4 m thickness polycrystalline BaTiO3 and BST films, deposited onto MgO ceramic substrate, were investigated [6 nd ly polycrystalline ~1 m sol-gel SrTiO 3 film, deposited onto silica, was studied by the resonant cavity method near the frequency of 10 GHz [8   As to the epitaxial film \(that has the largest interest in MMIC applications\practically no contact-less measurements are reported. It is remarkable that listed in the review [9 all   published experimental data regarding to the epitaxial ferroelectric film are drawn with the use of electrodes. Using electrodes, it is difficult to distinguish between the loss in the film itself and loss in the metal/film interface The opposite-electrodes method, for instance, is employed to study system r e 0.1 m BST film is obtained by the metal-organic chemical vapor deposition Dielectric constant is not notified but too low tan 0.006 looks like an evidence that ferr oelectric properties of studied film are suppressed Sandwich configuration of electrodes is used for miniature SrTiO3 capacitors microwav e study in [1 O n l y  a capacitance but no data on diel ectric permittivity is reported because strong influence of elect rode onto film loss tangent is difficult to estimate Microwave investigation of mi crostrip line with the BST film situated between Pt and Ag electrodes shows  200 50 12  bu t au thors are no t ab le to d e term in e d ielectric lo ss d u e  to a large attenuation of microwave signal by metallic electrodes As it is shown in Fig. 2, electrode-less film is possible to obtain by the resonant methods 1 3   In bot h cases  t h e opened microwave systems are us ed for measurements that makes difficult to provide st rict electrodynamics analysis Moreover, ferroelectric film might have big loss \(on some stages of its deposition or a nnealing\reduce accuracy of resonant methods Common techniques for studying dielectric materials in the waveguide usually rely on the measurement of complex scattering parameters of the waveguide which is filled with Fig 4. Different methods of ferroelectrics film study 


  MRRS-2008 Symposium Proceedings. Kiev, Ukraine, September 22-24, 2008  materials to be studied [1  Suc h t e c hni qu es ca n be a d a p t e d for the measurement of layered structures where properties of one layer are unknown and to be determined. However, such an approach faces obvious difficulties with thin films. Simple estimation shows that 1 m thick film with 1000 and tan 0.05 placed in the X-band waveguide cross section induces phase perturbation of only about 0.4 and brings attenuation of about 0.002 dB. These values are obviously out of equipment resolution capabilities An additional complication is th at the electrodes, as a rule should be the multi-layered ones to provide good adhesion to film. Usually employed pre-coat is titanium \(or chromium that has much higher resistan ce than the upper gold electrode Due to this reason, and because of very thin skin-layer, and electrode roughness, it is difficult to take proper account of the skin effect influence onto measured film tan  As a rule, epitaxial ferroel ectric film parameters are studied in the design of plan ar capacitor, with the use of interdigital electrodes deposited onto the opened surface of the film deposited onto dielectric substrate [3 is m e th o d  film parameters usually are obtained at the frequency of about 1 MHz, and next this informati on is applied to the microwave device elaboration. This assumption is not good grounded because of ferroelectrics show strong frequency dispersion in their dielectric properties Ferroelectric film placed between coplanar electrodes were investigated at microwaves as well, [5  1 2 an d 1 3 F i l m  parameters can be extracted from complex impedance of investigated phase shifter, whic h is a coplanar line. However any opened system is characteri zed by the radiation loss that has to be taken into account. This way of measurements usis rather complicated opened system, in which microwave propagation has to be assigned to three dielectrics: film itself substrate under film, and air above film, while electrodes influence should be considered as well That is why, as in case th at planar capacitor so for coplanar line, the calculation of dielectric permittivity and especially loss tangent looks quite approximate. Moreover, in the most of metering methods, mentioned in the review [9 microwave and tan of a \223natural film\224 remain unknown because a complex system of \223electrode-film electrode\224 with substrate and radiation influence are investigated To improve film deposition technology as well as to elaborate calculated microw ave device based on film parameters, \223natural film\224 electr ical properties are urgent, just before electrode deposition, and, certainly, at microwaves IV  N ON RESONANT METHOD OF FILM INVESTIGATION  To force microwave to propagate along film, the metallic electrodes are usually used. However, ferroelectric-metal interface\222s loss shades film\222s natural properties. Film surface metallization should be avoided because it characterizes mainly the interface loss. Another problem is strong anisotropy of thin films caused by surface stress. That is why field orientation during measurement should correspond its operation conditions in the MMIC   Fig. 5. Schematic representation of experiment   To improve film deposition technology as well as to elaborate device based on this film, its intrinsic electrical properties are urgent just before the electrode deposition, and certainly at microwaves. Moreover, accurate and reliable measuring of ferroelectric film s dielectric properties is an actual problem not only of electronic industry but for material science as well Taking into account all above mentioned, it is proposed to arrange film-on-substrate \223sandwich\224 along the waveguide as shown on Fig. 5. An important advantage of proposed scheme is the arrangement of measurem ent object in the area of the most strong electric field, that is in the center of waveguide for the basic mode. If film is arranged along the waveguide the interaction is performed on the whole length of the sample Waveguide is a closed system thus there is no radiation loss Like for the bulk material study, the frequency dependence of scattering parameters should be investigated here also Depending on sensitivity, the transmission in the 2-port system or the reflection in a shorted waveguide should be investigated. In both cases, complex transmission or reflection coefficient decreases according to film loss in the \223sandwich\224 while wavelength shortens acco rding to film permittivity To estimate the value of parameter and its sensitivity to the film\222s influence, a theoretical analysis was performed. Using a longitudinal wave representation, electromagnetic field problem was reduced to the nonlinear equation on propagation constant  cotatan  cotatan  tan tan       f f f ff s s s ss f f fss s d a d a d a d a a a 2 2 2 2 2 2  where  s  f 227 transverse wave numbers that can be found as 22  k  alone refers to the non-filled part of waveguide, where 1 d s 227 substrate thickness d f 227 film thickness Given equation was solved numerically to obtain the  propagation constant, which then was used to calculate the reflection coefficient using the transmission matrices approach  for the 2-port system, a tran smission coefficient has to be  calculated as well\. As a reference point, a 0.25mm substrate with S 10 was chosen, while film dielectric constant is supposed to be 1000 The second reference measurement was performed with pure MgO substrate \(without film\is measurement makes 


  MRRS-2008 Symposium Proceedings. Kiev, Ukraine, September 22-24, 2008  it possible to determine more precise values of substrate parameters taking into account metallization loss as well. For 20mm long 0.92mm thick MgO substrate we got permittivity 9.99 and loss tan 0.005. Relatively high loss caused by quality of metallization   Fig. 6. Thin film measurement processing The main experiment was with 0.8 m BST film deposited by laser ablation technique onto the 0.92mm MgO substrate Fig. 10 a,b illustrates measured data processing. It is seen note a very good agreement of simu lations with measurements especially in the Re/Im notati on. Table II summarizes derived results with optimization procedure applied  TABLE  II Studied Films  Film Thickness m  tg  Ba x Sr 1\226x TiO 3 60/40 0.84 445 0.05 Ba x Sr 1\226x TiO 3 60/40 0.5 360 0.06 Ba x Sr 1\226x TiO 3 70/30 1.0 160 0.011      Quite similar scheme was applied with transmission experiment. In the paraelectric film \(used for tuned devices microwave loss is much lower than  that in the ferroelectric one, and microwave absorption of paraelectric is derived from the damping of soft lattice vibration mode as well from polar phase fluctuations above the Curie point \(polar clusters Partial filling of the waveguide section by a specimen is considered, so the proposed t echnique can be adapted to a small specimen study if big one is not available One of important application of waveguide partial filling is ferroelectric thin film study by the electrode-less technique Proposed microwave method of film investigation does not require electrodes deposition, so film dielectric constant  and film loss n be obtained and compared at various stages of film processing Microwave data are very sensitive to ferroelectric film properties because this film shows dielectric dispersion of  conditioned by the domain wall vibrations just at microwaves It means that domain switching possibility is tied with microwave and Namely, while film processing, the appearance of capable for switching ferroelectric domains corresponds to th e microwave loss  maximum V  R ESONANT METHODS FOR FILM STUDY  Nowadays technologies gradually go to deposit very thin films. At this, film permittivity decreases. Both causes make microwave metering more difficult: film 500 and thickness t 1 m change signal phase as substrate with 50 and t 500 m. Ordinary now film with 100 and t 0.1 m on the same substrate changes transparent microwave signal phase 50 times less than a substrate. Therefore, the thinner film, the less sensitivity will be for the non-resonant methods That is why we proposed and studied two resonant methods to investigate ferroelectric films in a waveguide In first resonant method film on substrate was inserted into thin longitudinal slot in the wide wall of rectangular waveguide [1  Usi n g Net w o r k Anal y s e r a res o nance o f  partially fold part of waveguide was studied and analysed [16  The quality factor and resona nt frequency were used to calculate film loss and Fig. 7. Films Ba 0.9 Sr 0.1 TiO 3 are obtained by a sol-gel route. Annealing strongly influence on film parameters    Fig. 7: Dielectric consta nt versus frequency of Ba 0.8 Sr 0.2 TiO 3 films with two different thicknesses   Fig. 8  Dielectric constant of Ba 0.9 Sr 0.1 TiO 3 film at 10kHz as a function of temperature for three annealing times at 950\260C   The second resonant method uses the substrate \(where film is deposited\as a thin dielectric resonator \(DR\ it was mentioned, if film becomes less thick, and the influence of film presence on a substrate turns out to be less impressive to the electrodynamic parameters for the system \223film on substrate\224, Fig. 9 


  MRRS-2008 Symposium Proceedings. Kiev, Ukraine, September 22-24, 2008  However, in the case of thin DR use two effects can increase method sensitivity. First of all, the resonance of free substrate \(without film\ ve ry high quality, because as a substrate very low loss dielectric is used \(such as sapphire or magnesium oxide with tan 10 4 ubstrate should be relatively thin \(might be 50\226200 m\ to increase film influence to resonant frequency 0 and quality factor Q    Fig. 9. Square substrate with film in a waveguide; a little angle need to be used to excite resonances   Fig. 10.  Several resonances are exited fo r thin inclined DR used for thin DR measurements TE 01 mode is higher than \223parasite\224 HE111 mode. Mixed modes HEM cannot be used for calculations  Resonance with film is compar ed with resonance of empty substrate, and from the frequency change the film is extracted while film loss is obtained from the change in Q The problem need to be overcome is unusually very thin and low DR study. Many resonant modes appear in this system but the TE 01 has to be used for and loss calculations Problem of modes separation was solved as by calculation so by the experiments, Fig.10. In thinner substrate frequency resolution of modes becomes better. Different oblique angle DR arrangement in a waveguide was studied as well VI  C ONCLUSIONS  The goal of the report is to compare different methods of ferroelectric bulk and film mate rials microwave study in order to select appropriate method for any concrete situation of investigation          Presented research improves common techniques of ferroelectric and related di electric materials microwave examination in such a way that makes it possible to measure both high dielectric constant and loss R EFERENCES 1  J. Baker-Jarvis, Transmission/re flection and short-Circuit Line Permittivity Measurements NIST Technical Note 1341 Jul. 1990 2  M. T. Lanagan, J. H. Kim, D. C. Dube, S. J. Jang, and R. E. Newnham A Microwave Dielectric Measurement Technique for High Permittivity Materials Ferroelectrics 82:91-97 \(1988 3  Vendik, Ferroelectric tuning of pl anar and bulk microwave devices Journal of Superconductivity 1999, vol. 12, 325-338 4  A.B. Kozyrev, V.N. Keis, G. Koepf, R. Yandrofski, O.I. Soldatenkov K.A. Dubin and D.P. Dovgan. Procedur e of microwave investigations of ferroelectric films and tunable microwave devices based on ferroelectric films Microelectronic Engineering vol. 29, 257-260, 1995 5  C.M. Krowne, M. Daniel, S.W. Kirc hoefer, and J.M. Pond. Anisotropic permittivity and attenuation extrac tion from propagation permittivity measurements using an anisotropic full-wave Green`s function solver for coplanar ferroelectric yhin film devices IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech vol. 50, #2, February 2002, pp. 537-547 6  Y.M. Poplavko, and N-I. Cho Clamping effect on the microwave properties of ferroelectric film Semicond. Sci. Technology vol. 14, 1999 pp.961-966 7  Y.M. Poplavko, V. I. Molcha nov, Y.V. Prokopenko. Microwave examination of ferroelectric films Integrated Ferroelectrics vol.5, 1994 pp. 19-28 8  D.C. Dube. Dielectric films in the microwave region. Ferrolectrics, vol 225, 1999, pp. 141-146 9  S.S. Gevorgian, E.L. Kollberg. Do we really need ferroelectrics in paraelectric phase only in electrically controlled microwave devices IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech vol. 49, #11, Nov. 2001 pp.2117-2123 10  J.D. Banieki, R.R. Laibowitz, T M. Shaw, P.R. Duncombe, D.A Neumayer. \223Dielectric relaxation of Ba 0.7 Sr 0.3 TiO 3 films from 1 MHz to 20 GHz\224 Applied Phys. Lett vol. 72, pp. 498-500, 1998 11  K. Ikuta, Y. Imeda, Y. Ishii. Measuremet of high-frequency dielectric characteristics in the mm-wave band for dielectric thin films on semiconductor substrates. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Vol. 34 part 2, #9B September 1995, pp. 1211-1213 12  D. Galt, J.C. Price, J.A. Beall and R.H. Ono. Characterization of a tunable thin film microwave YBa 2 Cu 3 O 7-x SrTiO 3 coplanar capacitor Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 63, November 1993, pp.3078-3080 13  B. Kim, S. Baik, Y. Poplavko a nd Y. Prokopenko. Epitaxial BST thin film as microwave phase shifter Integrated Ferroelectrics 2001,Vol. 34 pp.207-214 14  B. Kim, V. Kazmirenko, Y. Poplavko, S. Baik. Microwave dielectric spectroscopy of ferroelectric thin films Mat. Res. Symp. Proc Vol. 720 2002, pp. H3.2.1-H.3.2.6  G Velu K B l ar y L Bur gnies  A Mar t eau, G. Ho uzet D. L i ppens J  C  Carru. "A 360\260 BST phase shifter w ith moderate bias voltage at 30 GHz IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques  Special Issue on \223Applications of ferroelectrics in microwave technology\224, vol. 55, n\260 2, pp. 438-444 \(February 2007 16  G. Velu, G. Houzet, L. Burgnies, J.C. Carru, A. Marteau, K. Blary, D Lippens, P. Mounaix, M. Tondusson, E. Nguema. "Electrical characterizations of paraelectric BST thin films up to 1THz. Realization of microwave phase shifters Ferroelectrics vol. 353, pp. 29-37 \(2007         


attitude control architecture or an autonomy agent that find them during the discovery process Once early validation of the software system against simulation models is complete and the physical flight system is assembled from PnP components integrated simulation support transitions to a Hardware in the Loop HWIL mode In this configuration the simulation device models exchange xTEDS-level interface data with the ASIMs which provide a test-bypass mode in which registers may be managed by simulation instead of by the physical hardware itself The flight software makes the transition from a proxy to the actual flight processor\(s residing on the SPA physical network Spacewire-based for PnPSat Importantly the flight software remains unchanged All that remains to be assessed is the ability of the software to meet deadlines and the network-based messaging communications between components to properly handle differences in transport latencies In the PnPSat program we are now at the point of quantifying these differences but preliminary results indicate that there are not substantial differences when relocating software between the FSWIL and HWIL configurations REFERENCES 1 Cannon S Responsive Space Plug  Play with the Satellite Data Model Proc AIAA Infotech 2007 Conference Rohnert Part CA May 2007 2 Wiley J Larson and James R Wertz Space Mission Analysis and Design 3rd Edition Microcosm Press 1999 3 R Strunce F Eckert C Eddy Responsive Space's Spacecraft Design Tool SDT AIAA Fourth Responsive Space Conference 2006 7 CONCLUSIONS Design Net has provided extensive support to the Air Force's Operationally Responsive Space research efforts providing key support in several areas that facilitate the ability to configure and deploy tactical space assets within improbably short periods of time We have used the SPA data standards and a novel autonomy architecture to develop modular application code that can organically connect at runtime on a data network to provide desired missionoriented capability This approach shows great promise for building an inventory of stock software elements that can be used to rapidly assemble capability for a limited class of satellites The MSDT toolchain facilitates control of the end-to-end satellite life cycle leveraging from the SPA standards to enable design analysis assembly testing verification and on-orbit command and control of this new class of satellites The first test of this technology will be the PnPSat mission which seeks to demonstrate the viability of these approaches and the enabling technologies and standards upon which they are built PnPSat is moving toward launch readiness in the middle of 2008 7 


BIOGRAPHY Dr Center has over 15 years of experience in the aerospace engineering field wit te last five years focused on responsive space dvelopment activities including work with AFRL MDA NRL and NASA Much of his time is devoted to Operationally Responsive Space technology advancement in areas related to process design tools and software architecture development Currently he leads a team at Design Net that is developing most of the autonomy software Activity Agents and is providing support of software integration testing for the PnPSat program Previously he was the Lead Software Engineer for the Low Temperature Microgravity Physics Facility LTMPF project directing the flight software development effort for a five-mission life-cycle facility to fly on the International Space Station Dr Center lead the development of a modular configurable flight software architecture to support a suite of six science instrument board varieties residing on three VME chassis and also guided the development of a scripting interface to experiment operations designed to reduce software development costs and risks He also architected with guidance from NASA's JPL an in-house flight software process consisting of a review structure configuration management plan unit/component/release system-level test framework and risk/defect tracking methods As a doctoral candidate and post-doctoral researcher he was involved in several projects combining cutting-edge numerical techniques with computer graphics for solution and visualization of fluid dynamics combustion and flight dynamics problems 8 


Figure 10 Rayleigh Fading envelope power Max Doppler shift  93Hz 11 12 0-14 0-16 0-T8 I T is very close to the ideal even in the presence of REFERENCES 1 R Kumar and R Martinez  CDMA Satellite System Capacity with Multiple User Classes Proceedings of the AIAA 22nd International Communication Satellite Systems Conference April 2004 Monterey California 2 K Pahlavan and P Krishnamurthy Principles of Wireless Networks A Unified Approach Prentice Hall 2002 3 V K Garg Wireless Network Evolution 2G to 3G Prentice Hall NJ 2002 4 M K Simon and M Alouini Digital Communication Hz and corresponds to a freeway speed The simulation results show that in all carrier phase reference such that the penalty in terms of the bit Type II filter energy to noise power spectral density ratio Eb/No due to range 2PSof Eb/No error rate results when the proposed method is applied to the error rate the  0-26 0-28 performance case of QPSK modulation for the case of both the AWGN channel and the Rayleigh fading channels Two specific examples of the fading channel have been considered In case of known e Se Figure 11 Signal amplitude estimation  fading and channel phase noise impairments The amplitude and final phase estimates error remains small cases considered the phase of carrier recovery are then used to detect the data symools The paper has presented detailed results on both the tracking phase error is less than 0.1 dB for both the AWGN and Rayleigh fading channels and for as the carrier phase noise that is contributed from the receiver local oscillator LO and the fading channel The amplitude fading estimate is used by a mobile receiver moving at a pedestrian speed The other case considers a fade envelope bandwidth of 93 a mobile receiver located inside a car moving at a wide a Kalman filter which then provides the predicted phase to the reference carrier oscillator such that the carrier phase estimation that obtained for the ideal over Fading Channels John Wiley 2000 5 R Kumar Power Control Algorithm and Architecture for Fading Communication Channels 2006 IEEE Aero Conference Big Sky Montana March 2006 6 B Skalar Digital Communications Prentice-Hall 2001 7 R Kumar D Taggart and G Goo Performance of the MPSK and QAM Modulation Schemes in the Presence of Narrowband Interference 2004 AIAA International Communication Satellites Systems Conference Monterey California May 9-12 2004 9 T eoretica Q AdaptiveRx T7 fl uI I 1 0 1 The results have been presented for QPSK wK<aflman Filte-r Pi LL1 modulation however similar performance results are achieved for higher-order modulation schemes erage SNF per Bit dB Figure 12 BER performance of the proposed architecture with type I adaptive fading amplitude estimator for Rayleigh flat fading channel maximum Doppler shift  93 Hz 7 CONCLUSIONS The paper has presented case without any data modulation In terms of the bit error variance and bit one case a fade envelope bandwidth of 12 Hz is used corresponding to error variance is close to nonzero phase tracking a novel and robust adaptive receiver that jointly estimates the fading amplitude distortion induced by Rayleigh fading channels as well a novel phase estimator which also involves data detection The phase noise estimate is input to 


8 U Mengali and A N D'Andrea Synchronization Techniques for Digital Receivers Plenum Press 1997 9 L E Franks Carrier and Bit Synchronization in Data Communication A Tutorial Review IEEE Trans On Communications vol COM-28 NO.8 pp 1107-1121 Aug 1980 10 W C Lindsey and M K simon Telecommunication Systems Engineering Prentice-Hall 1973 11 M K Simon Optimum Receiver Structures for Phase-Multiplexed Modulations IEEE Trans On Communications Vol 26 NO 6 p 865-872 June 1978 12]A J Rustako L J Greenstein R S Roman and A M Saleh Using Times-Four Carrier Recovery in MQAM Digital Radio Receivers IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications vol SAC-5 NO.3 pp 524-533 April 1987 13]Y Lee Y Jung G Jeong and E Chang A Limiter Added 4th Multiplying PLL Carrier Recovery Technique for 16-QAM Signal IEEE 1997 14]H C Osborne A Generalized Polarity-Type Costas Loop for Tracking MPSK Signals IEEE Trans On Communications Vol 30 NO 10 p 2289-2296 October 1982 15]N Liskov and R Curtis Performance of Coherent Phase and Amplitude Digital Modulations with Carrier Recovery Noise IEEE Trans on Communications vol COM-35 NO.9 pp 972-976 Sept 1987 16]R Kumar Impact of Ionospheric Scintillation on GPS/WAAS System and its Mitigation Techniques Proceedings of the Institute of Navigation 55th Annual National Meeting January 27th 1999 17]R Kumar P Munjal Simulation Studies for Ionospheric Scintillation Proceedings of the Institute of Navigation 54th Annual National Meeting Junel-3 1998,Kansas City 18 R Kumar Optimum Filters and Smoothers Design for Carrier Phase and Frequency Tracing National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory publication 8710 19]B D 0 Anderson and J B Moore Optimal filtering Prentice-Hall 1979 BIOGRAPHY Dr Rajendra Kumar is Professor and Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering at California State University Long Beach He also has a joint appointment at the Aerospace Corporation as a Senior Engineering Specialist He has published about 100 papers on Communication Systems GPS Adaptive Signal Processing and Adaptive Control He has received seven patents in the area of Communication and GPS Systems and has two patents pending He has about 30 years of experience in these areas He is the recipient of twelve NASA Tech Brief and Patent Disclosure awards from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Washington D.C He received the Best Paper award at the 1986 International Telemetering Conference and the Distinguished Faculty award at the California State University He is a Senior Member of IEEE and Member of AIAA and ION He received his B.Tech and M.Tech in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Newcastle in Australia His biography is listed in Who is Who in the World Who is Who in America and Who is Who in Science and Engineering and many other biographical reference works Ramses Diaz de Leon joined Rockwell Semiconductors in 1998 working on RF and mixed signal integrated circuit design post silicon validations for cellular phone applications He moved to Broadcom Corporation in 2005 were he serves as a senior staff member in the Enterprise Networking division His research interests include adaptive signal processing estimation theory multi-user detection spread spectrum satellite communications and radar signal processing Ramses received a Bachelor's of Science in Electrical Engineering from Universidad Autonoma de Baja 10 


California Mexicali Mexico He is currently completing the requirements for the Master's in Science in Electrical Engineering at California State University Long Beach 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


