Development Outcomes from IT Adoption in Micro-Enterprises  Mehruz Kamal, Travis Good and Sajda Qureshi College of Information Science & Technology University of Nebraska Omaha mkamal@mail.unomaha.edu   Abstract  The ability of micro-enterprises to adopt IT can potentially increase their growth by 3.4% according to a World Bank expert. However these gains do not always take place as the challenges are many. In order to identify how IT adoption can lead to growth in micro-enterprises, this paper develops upon the IT adoption categories discovered in a prior research effort in order to arrive at development outcomes Following an open coding analysis of the results of a 
focus group session in which a group of microenterprises participated, this paper discovers the relationships between the IT adoption categories and development outcomes. The contribution of this paper is in the discovery of the relationships between IT adoption and development outcomes in the form of a conceptual model  1. Introduction   Small businesses play an important role in economies all over the world by creating jobs and contributing to the socio-economic development of their communities. According to Grosh and Somolekae  Microen terpris e s con t r i bu te to in du s t rial ization 
in at least two ways. First, they graduate to become larger companies; and second, owners of microenterprises can accrue capital to be passed onto the next generation to start bigger businesses. In Nebraska 87% of the economy is comprised of these very small businesses that are primarily run by one to five employees. Although they are the dominant form of business, they are hindered from growing due to a myriad of challenges that they face. One of the key challenges that micro-enterprises encounter is the 
adoption of information technology \(IT\ccording to Qiang et al s e arch  th e adoption of IT can  potentially increase business growth by 3.4 Yet IT adoption has been a challenge for small and medium sized \(SME\sinesses according to authors such as Schreiner and Wo d ers 36  Lichtenstein and Lyons H y m a n a n d Dearden 14 Honi s c i t e l l o an d S gobbi 2 6 T h i s i s a n e v e n  bigger challenge for micro-enterprises since they are one person organizations and have a lack of resources and necessary support structures according to Wolcott 
 s ell an d W e hn [20], Hazan 12 O w e n  and Darkw Baark an d Heek s 3], L a tch e m   Walk Farrell et al. [2 4], Ba rton an d Bear 4   A study by Qureshi et al. [2 c ov ered th at th e  intent to adopt IT by micro-entrepreneurs was a result of their experience with the technology. This finding lead them to develop Technology attitude groups that help explain how different micro-entrepreneurs have varying attitudes towards IT and how their attitudes drive their use of IT. Armed with this new insight, it 
then appears that the next logical step would be to investigate how a micro-entrepreneur s attitude towards IT may help grow their business. This is where the main contribution of this paper lies. The research question being investigated in the paper is How can IT adoption by micro-enterprises enable development outcomes to be achieved This paper addresses the research question through open coding analysis of the results of a focus group session in which a group of micro-entrepreneurs participated. The results of this study reveal relationships between the Technology 
attitude groups and development outcomes. The contribution of this paper is in the discovery of the relationships between IT adoption and development outcomes in the form of a conceptual model  2. Theoretical Background  2.1. Small Business and IT  Through the analysis of multiple interpretive case studies, Qureshi et al. [31 ha s sho w n t h a t I n fo r m a tio n  and Communication Technologies \(ICTs\ can help businesses gain better access to information and expertise, reach new markets and customers \(or more 
generally, stakeholders\, administer the business more efficiently and effectively, and grow in the knowledge and skills needed to run the businesses better. For small businesses to be able to reap the potential benefits of IT, Brady t ate th at IT n e eds to  be understood from an economic, management, as well Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


as from marketing perspectives. In addition, BarbaSanchez et al. [4 m e n t i o n h o w a b r o a d vi e w o f I C T s  can stimulate small businesses to adopt new technologies, create innovative products, and be competitive. Nevertheless, micro-enterprises face a host of challenges in adopting and using ICTs Despite the fact that IT can bring about substantial benefits to firms as per Qiang et al. [2  Ra ym o n d e t   d S o u t hw ood [39], th e s c e n ario i s  v e r y  different for micro-enterprises. For these very tiny businesses that mostly have just one owner IT use has been very minimal. Results from a World Bank study done by Qiang et al h o w ed t h at e m a il an d  web use \(email - 27%; web - 22%\or conducting business was the lowest among micro-enterprises. It then appears that these types of businesses are not able to harness efficient computer use or effectively network with other businesses using IT. Wolcott et al  an d Qu res h i et al. [30 h a v e s h o w n  th at, ev e n  when the group of micro-enterprises under study was awarded certain technologies through a technology grant program, the boxes containing the new IT devices were unopened - after six months! Those studies revealed that despite the micro-entrepreneurs  appreciation of the benefits of technology, this was not sufficient to drive them to incorporate and use the new IT. Wo d Qu res h i et al. [30] con c lu de  that the two key reasons to explain this behavior are that, on the one hand, micro-enterprises face numerous technical and non-technical challenges, and on the other hand that they are intimidated by the breadth and depth of available options  2.2. Information Technology for Development  It has been acknowledged by researchers and development agencies that Information Technology IT\ is playing an increasing role in facilitating development. Steinberg [40 su gge sts tha t t h e  hi g h  versatility of ICTs has the potential to address a country s development strategies - provided an enabling environment exists. As per Qureshi et the field of Information Technology for Development ITD\uilt on this notion and involves the implementation, use and management of Information Technology infrastructures to stimulate human, social and economic development. IT for Development research is not limited to developing countries; it also considers communities and regions in which people have limited access to funds, social services and education needed to sustain themselves; there are underserved regions within developed countries as well. Researchers in the field of ITD have investigated various ways and in various use contexts the manner in which IT may help to bring about development  as indicated by Rodrigues and Govind odrig o   e epers an d de Villiers [37 B r aa et al 5   Mosse and Sahay m a ro an d Nh am poss a 16  Chudnovsky and Lopez [7  T a n a n d Le e w o ngc ha r o e n   ecch in i a n d Scott [6], Kenny 15]; Wals h a m an d  Sahay resh i [32], Nidum ol u 23], Preis Hej e et   Ha w k a n d McHen r y 11  T o h i g h l i g ht s o m e  of the main contributions of this area, it can be said that through IT, underserved populations have an opportunity to access information, knowledge and expertise through the use of tele-centers and telekiosks. IT has also enabled access to global and local markets enabling small firms in developing countries to compete with and partner with bigger firms in developed countries as evidenced by the increase in off-shoring practices. At a micro-scale, IT has helped to improve administrative efficiencies through automation and computerization of many of the day-today manual business activities leading to increased transparency and faster processing of information. It has also been acknowledged that as the costs of Internet service provision are reduced through privatization, IT will have greater impact on poverty reduction Kenny a  m a cro econ o m ic lev e l  through her model of IT for development, Quresh suggests that when IT implementations and interventions impact business activities, a number of resulting effects can be brought about such as better access to information and expertise, increased competitiveness and access to new markets including global markets, administrative efficiencies from low transaction costs, and increase in labor productivity through learning and poverty reduction  2.3. IT Adoption   IT adoption is one of the most researched concepts in the field of Information Systems. Numerous theories, frameworks and models have been developed to help explain how adoption of IT takes place as described by Ajzen and Fishbein j zen 1], Dav i s  T h om ps on e t al. [42], M oore an d Ben b as at [21  Compeau and Higgens atesh et al. [43 Despite the rich insights provided by the aforementioned studies, it was shown by Qureshi et al  h o w pri or s t u d i e s i n IT a dopt i o n f a i l t o f u l l y  explain IT adoption behavior in micro-enterprises. In addition, Quresh e lop  Technology attitude groups to help explain the attitudes that groups of micro-entrepreneurs experience in regard to IT. The groups are distinguished from one another by the extent to which they perceive technology as applicable to their businesses Since the aim of this study is to identify how IT adoption can lead to growth in micro-enterprises, this Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


paper develops upon the IT adoption categories discovered in the Qureshi et t u d y  to arriv e a t  development outcomes. The IT adoption categories from Quresh u mm arized belo w    Positive Limited: Micro-entrepreneurs in this group see the value of IT and are willing to adopt it, but lack the capabilities and support to proceed further  Positive Specific: Micro-entrepreneurs in this group tend to have a split perspective; they perceive technology as beneficial in some areas e.g. acquiring access to new customers through the web\t have doubts about other areas  Positive Holistic: Micro-entrepreneurs in this group display a positive attitude towards IT in general and have no significant reservations For the development construct, we have chosen to take the four ICT effects from the model of IT for development outlined by Quresh ou r  development outcomes. The model in Quresh an appropriate starting point due to its being theoretically linked to IT interventions and corresponding social and economic development impacts. It suggests that when social and economic development activities are able to benefit from ICT implementations, the ICT effects that result are improved access to new markets, increased access to information and knowledge, administrative efficiencies, and increased productivity The ICT effects from the model in Quresh serve as constructs for our study and provide broad coverage of potential development outcomes; this coverage is helpful for framing the focus group session, and subsequent data analysis of that session The constructs are described below  Access to new markets: This construct is a result of numerous studies that have shown that information and communication technologies provide a means to reach both local and global markets. As a consequence, there may be increased revenues, for example, for local farmers who are suddenly able to conduct business outside their geographic locale  Access to Information and Knowledge: It has been shown that in order for both social as well as economic development to take place, having access to right information is a key issue. Past studies have shown how tele-kiosks placed in rural villages have helped villagers obtain crucial economic and social data  Administrative Efficiencies: This construct refers to automation of the many routine manual tasks that are performed in businesses that take time away from more important business issues. Within the development context, computerization of many tasks has resulted in increased transparency and quicker processing times  Productivity: This development construct refers to the ability to do more with fewer resources. In addition, it also implies being able to learn new ways to do business using information technology   3. Methodology  This study uses a qualitative approach to gather and analyze the data following an interpretive research strategy as per Klein and Myers n i n terpretiv e  research strategy will enable data gathered to be analyzed and generalized to develop either, concepts theory, specific implications, or rich insight as per Walsham, 1995 [45  The data collected through a focus group for this research was analyzed through an inductive process using the guidelines for good interpretive research. According to Klein and Myers  f o rm a tion  S y s t e m s research can be class i f i ed as interpretive if it is assumed that our knowledge of reality is gained only through social constructions. The principles of interpretive research at w e re  adhered to were 1\he principle of contextualization 2\e principle of interaction between researchers and the subjects, 3\e principle of dialogical reasoning and 4\e principle of multiple interpretations. The unit of analysis for this study was the individual microentrepreneur; due to the small size of micro-enterprises the micro-entrepreneurs views represent those of his/her business. The researchers observed and transcribed the narrations made by the business owners during the focus group session. The transcriptions depict the social and hist orical backgrounds of each of the micro-businesses as specified by the principle of contextualization \(Klein and Myers  The principle of interaction between researchers and subjects was achieved through the focus group session. The focus group was conducted by the authors in Lyons Nebraska where a diverse set of microentrepreneurs came together to discuss the challenges they faced with IT. The choice of micro-enterprises in the focus group was purposive. According to Patton  a m p li n g i n qu ali t ativ e res e arch i s pu rpos eful  rather than random as in quantitative research. In purposeful sampling, information-rich cases are selected carefully and strategically; the specific type and number of cases selected depends on the study s purpose and resources, as per Patton  The specific criteria used were that each business had only 1 5 employees and that each business owner had experienced some interaction with IT The brainstorm questions the researchers posed to the entrepreneurs were 1\s you think about acquiring and using information technology to benefit your Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


company, which kinds of challenges do you encounter?, 2\If the challenges you mentioned were mitigated, how would you envision using technology within your company? After each brainstorm the third author who conducted the focus group, facilitated the brainstorm and helped arrive at some major categories for voting. The first author typed up the brainstorm categories and managed the clickrs \(a technology used for obtaining anonymous input from a group of people on issues\for voting. The second author typed up the transcripts of the discussion that were coded for the purpose of this paper. The questions that were posed to the focus group participants coupled with the facilitation provided by the researchers during the session served to socially construct the descriptions that each of the micro-entrepreneurs provided. This corresponds to Klein and Myers  c iple of interaction between researchers and subjects The focus group consisted of micro-entrepreneurs who had a diverse set of backgrounds and success with their micro-enterprises. They had varied experiences with technology. They were different ages and possessed different skills. Their economic means varied widely. Table 1 lists the micro-entrepreneurs who participated in the focus group JB  Large equipment manufacturer DJ  owns as flower and gifts shop MA  owns a hardware store JP  manages a funeral home KS  owns a family daycare MF  manages the local library LM  owns a dress shop JJ  owns a farm business FH  Superintendent of local school BG  owns a stoneware and pottery business Table 1: List of Micro-entrepreneurs  It is important to note that Micro-enterprises operate in tightly-knit communities. Although the unit of analysis in this study is a micro-entrepreneur, to gain better insight into the dynamics of microenterprises, it is necessary to study them within a community to be able to see how they interact with one another. Micro-enterprises cannot be studied alone or in isolation. Thus it is that JB \(equipment manufacturer\d FH \(superintendent of local school not micro-enterprises per se - were included in the focus group conducted; they are part of the community of micro-businesses in Lyons, Nebraska Principles of dialogical reasoning and multiple interpretations derived from Klein and Myer  were adhered to during the open coding of the transcribed data. The data collected during the focus group was transcribed and coded using an instrument developed using constructs from the IT adoption literature and from the IT for Development literature The coding schema using the IT adoption constructs is described in the earlier publication of Qureshi et al  T h e cu rren t paper bu ilds on Qu resh i et a l 29] by  focusing on the IT for Development aspect and its constructs. The coding instrument used for this study is shown in Table 2  below  Code Construct Definition of Code Example Market Access Access to new markets Qureshi 2005 Ability to use IT to access new markets we use our website to get access to new customers  Admin Efficiency Administrative Efficiencies Qureshi 2005 Use of IT to make business more efficient Use of excel QuickBooks etc Info Access Access to information and Knowledge Qureshi 2005 Use of IT to access information expertise or knowledge relevant to the business Use of search tools to find information Productivity Increased labor productivity Schumpeter Qureshi 2005 Ability to do more with fewer resources Learning new ways to do business using IT New business through IT learning new skills and techniques to help with business Table 2: IT for Development Outcomes  The coding was carried out independently by the first and second authors to in terpret the meanings in the transcripts as they related to the ways in which IT can be used in innovative ways to bring about development. Having two independent researchers code the focus group transcripts serves as a basis for inter-coder reliability and a stronger foundation for the analysis of the results. The IT for Development constructs that were used were Access to new markets Administrative efficiencies, Access to information and knowledge, and Increased labor productivity. These constructs come from the model of IT for development derived through a multiple interpretive case study by Quresh T h e t w o in depen d en t coders iden ti f i ed  these constructs in the transcripts when the business owners talk about what they would like to obtain for their businesses from incorporating IT. The researchers then integrated their versions of the coding in order to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


produce a shared understanding about the potential development outcomes described by the microentrepreneurs During the coding and analysis phase of the study the researchers attempted to reconcile different viewpoints with respect to the coding constructs themselves. This resulted in a conceptual linkage among specific potential IT for development outcomes and micro-entrepreneurs belonging to certain Technology attitude groups Qureshi et al T h e following two sections describe and help explain the results obtained  4. Results  The results from the coding of the focus group session are shown in Table 2. The numbers represent the occurrence frequency of comments related to the potential development outcomes   Access to New Markets Administra tive Efficiencies Access to Informat ion Knowled ge Producti vity MC MarketA ccess AdminEf InfoAcce ss Producti vity JB 2 0 1 1 DJ 1 1 1 2 MA 1 3 2 3 JP 5 2 5 3 KS 1 1 1 2 MF 5 4 5 6 LM 4 2 2 3 JJ 1 2 3 0 FH 2 1 1 2 BG 3 1 2 1 Total 25 17 23 23 Table 3: Coding Results for Development Outcomes  The raw frequency data are shown in a series of tables \(Tables 3, 4, & 5\g the ratios of the frequencies to each other, categorized along the three attitude groups Positive limited, Positive specific and Positive Holistic - as developed in \(Qureshi et al  T h es e ratios portray th e r e lativ e e m ph a s es t h at t h e  different attitude groups place on specific outcomes  Positive Limited \(Envisioned Outcome Percentages  MarketAcce ss Admin Ef InfoAcce ss Productivit y DJ 20% 20% 20% 40 K S 20% 20% 20% 40 Table 4 The ratios show a tendency for micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive limited technology attitude group to focus on Productivity gains associated with technology adoption   Positive Specific \(Envisioned Outcome Percentages MarketAcce ss Admin Ef InfoAcce ss Productivi ty JB 50 0% 25 25 M A 11 33 22 33 BG 43 14% 29 14 Table 5  The Positive Specific technology attitude group ratios show a tendency for micro-entrepreneurs to view Market Access and Information Access as the most beneficial outcomes of technology adoption   Positive Holistic \(Envisioned Outcome Percentages MarketAcce ss Admin Ef InfoAcce ss Productivi ty JP 33 13 33 20 M F 25% 20% 25% 30 JJ 17% 33 50 0 FH 33 17% 17 33 Table 6  These ratios indicate that micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive Holistic technology attitude group are generally positive about technology and share a broad appreciation for the potential of technology to support business in different ways The following analysis section provides detailed explanation of the results  5. Analysis  The ratios of development outcome expectations Tables 4, 5, and 6\eem to indicate that the technology attitude groups describe by Qureshi et al 29 ha ve d i ffe r e nt e x p e c t a t i o ns a b o u t  w h a t t e c h no l o g y  can add to a business. Conceptually, this may be related to their level of experience. Members of the Positive Limited technology attitude group have seen computers performing routine tasks, but have little understanding of the knowledge capabilities associated with the World Wide Web, for instance. Members of the Positive Specific technology attitude group, have used computers for certain tasks, but may lack training or awareness of other potential uses of IT. Members of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


the Positive Holistic technology attitude group may have a broad appreciation of IT, but lack specific knowledge and resources necessary to fully integrate IT into their businesses. To clarify how these connections arose from the transcript of the focus group, we have assembled quotes in the following subsections from the session drawn from microentrepreneurs that fall within each of the technology attitude groups. This also leads to the development of conjectures on the basis of which these groupings are connected to the development outcomes investigated in this paper. Figure 1 below shows the links between the technology attitude groups and development outcomes   Figure 1. Conceptual model  The following subsections illustrate through quotes from the focus group session transcript the attitudes for each of the groups  Positive Limited This quote represents the attitude of microentrepreneurs in this group  DJ I am sure I could utilize [book-keeping software  more Development outcome: Productivity Conjecture 1 \(Low Enthusiasm Micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive Limited technology attitude group tend to have low enthusiasm for technology and to perceive limited potential development outcomes associated with it. These micro-entrepreneurs associate technology use with basic productivity gains. A possible reason may be that they do not understand the potential for the Internet to inform their business decisions as well as open up new markets. A productive intervention for these micro-entrepreneurs might be to provide them with such awareness via a class or seminar  Positive Specific The following quotes represent the attitude of microentrepreneurs in this group  JB We do business all over the world with our website Development outcome: Market Access  MA 90 [different s u p p lies ar e or der e d thr ough  Internet suppliers Development outcome Information Access  Conjecture 2 \(Mild to moderate enthusiasm Microentrepreneurs in the Positive Specific technology attitude group tend to have mild to moderate enthusiasm for specific development outcomes. These micro-entrepreneurs have specialized interest areas where they believe that technology can assist them Market access is the most important goal for this group, followed closely by the goals of Information Access and Productivity. These business owners may have a greater appreciation for technology s applications than members of the Positive Limited technology attitude group, but they would still benefit from an awareness class/seminar  Positive Holistic The following quote represents the attitude of microentrepreneurs in this group  JJ Was always interested in computers, farm record keeping in Excel spreadsheet Development outcome Administrative Efficiency  JP we have [created l i n ks on our w e bs i t e   as f a r as resources places lodging, local florist, cemeteries names of churches Development outcome: Market Access  MF We have helped with Medicare insurance plan searching for seniors Development outcome Information Access  FH Want to use tech to advance education of students Development outcome: Productivity  Conjecture 3 \(Broad Enthusiasm Microentrepreneurs in the Positive Holistic technology attitude group tend to show a broad enthusiasm for development outcomes, though they may lack the knowledge and resources necessary to fully integrate IT into their businesses. A meaningful intervention for  Technology Attitude Groups Positive S p ecific Positive Holistic Positive Limited IT for Development Market Access Productivity Information Access Administrative Efficiencies Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


this group of business owners might be to nurture and sustain their interest in IT while providing them with resources to incorporate IT into their businesses Wolcott et al. [45 d e sc r i be  a n in no va t i ve p r o c e ss o f  IT Therapy as a means to help micro-enterprises adopt IT  The above analysis of the three attitude groups illustrates how interventions can be applied to microenterprises. An understanding of technology attitude groups may facilitate interventions to aid these groups in overcoming IT hurdles and moving to the next stage of growth and development It appears that different Technology attitude groups Qureshi et al a v e diff eren t un ders tan d i n gs of capabilities of technology. For example, some business owners with limited exposure to technology see it only as a productivity aid, whereas others with more exposure see IT as a means to enter new markets Despite the differences in micro-entrepreneurs  understanding of how IT may benefit their businesses they all seem to converge on the notion that using IT in some way will help their business. Our analysis seems to suggest a conceptual model that depicts the behavior expressed by our set of rural micro-enterprises as related to IT adoption and potential development outcomes \(figure 1 Figure 1 shows that there is a relationship between a micro-entrepreneur s attitude towards IT and development outcomes that might arise within his/her business as a result of IT adoption. However the extent to which the development outcomes are achieved for the technology adoption groups is illustrated in the arrows that link these groups to the specific development outcomes. Micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive specific category tend to benefit more from new market access and would be adopters of websites for example. Micro-entrepreneurs in the positive holistic category would tend to benefit more from technologies that enable information to be accessed such as the use of search engines and portals. The micro-entrepreneurs in the positive limited category would benefit from IT to achieve productivity gains such as through software for bookkeeping    It is important to emphasize here that although we posit a relationship between our technology attitude group construct and our development construct, we have not drawn conclusions as to the direction of the relationship between the two in our conceptual model In other words, it is yet to be investigated whether adoption attitudes lead to IT adoption and bring about business development, or whether perceived business development outcomes foster changes in attitude While the causality is uncertain, the characteristics of these businesses nonetheless lend themselves to certain conjectures about what kinds of interventions may be helpful to grow these very small businesses in the future. As it turns out, these characteristics tend to suggest that rural micro-entrepreneurs may be most effective in growing businesses if they gain a broad perspective on technology. The extent of technology knowledge within each technology attitude group seems to be associated with specific development outcomes, with the breadth of envisioned outcomes increasing alongside the knowledge   6. Implications for micro-enterprise growth  Our analysis leads us to suggest a number of implications and guidelines to help address microenterprises needs in terms of IT adoption and bringing about business growth One such guideline would be to make provisions through local universities or non-profit organizations to provide seminars for micro-enterprises to increase their awareness towards IT and show them how technology can help their business Our results suggest \(Table 3\at there was a strong consensus that the micro-enterprises needed to reach new markets. A potential guideline here would be to make business owners aware that the Internet is highly collaborative in nature and that they can use Internet technology build partnerships with other businesses to accrue many benefits. This would help these small businesses enhance their market reach to potential customers through business-to-business collaborations over the Internet The other large problem perceived by the microentrepreneurs was a lack of time. This might be addressed by a technology intervention involving the creation of a common technology platform to create administrative efficiencies for these businesses for bread and butter business tasks like accounting. The business owners could be referred to community college and/or regular college training classes to train on said platform   7. Limitations   It is important to point out that although the current study makes a significant contribution through the discovery of the connection between IT adoption categories and development outcomes of microProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


enterprises, the researchers do not however claim that the categories of IT adoption or of development outcomes are exhaustive. The applicability of the constructs is constrained by the sample size available and the inductive process used to evaluate the sample Despite this limitation, it is also important to note that the methodology used in this study is qualitative in nature and bottom up. In other words, the results and analysis is very strongly tied to the data and the conclusions have been derived bottom-up from the data. As per Straus e coding proces s us ed  in the study allows the researchers to apply their theoretical sensitivity to make sense of the data. Future focus groups may reveal other adoption categories. But as for the IT adoption categories discovered and developed in this current study, they are heavily rooted in the data and represent the actual context from which they were extracted   8. Conclusion  Micro-enterprises are crucial contributors to the economy, both in developed as well as in developing countries. Nonetheless, research has shown that they are often ill-adapted to the technological demands of the modern economy. In this study we used inductive reasoning, coding and classification to expand upon earlier research by Qureshi et al. [2 at pu t m i croentrepreneurs into technology attitude groups. We tied these attitude groups into a conceptual model of development outcome expectations, concluding that most of the entrepreneurs had limited and specific expectations concordant with their previous limited and specific technology exposure. Finally, we made some conjectures about the kinds of interventions that would be most suitable for these entrepreneurs. Future research will focus on testing and clarifying both the aforementioned technology attitude groups and the model tying the groups to specific outcome expectations. The hope is that a robust model will facilitate successful and sustained technology interventions in the future  9. References  1  Ajzen, I The theory of planned behavior  Organization Behavior and Human Decision Processes  50\. pp 179-211. 1991 2  Ajzen, I. and Fishbein, M. "Attitudes and Normative Beliefs as factors Influencing Behavioral Intentions Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. \(21:1\ pp 1-9. 1972 3  Baark, E., and Heeks, R Evaluation of Donor-Funded Information Technology Transfer Projects in China: A Life-Cycle Approach Retrieved Dec 12, 2007, from http://idpm.man.ac.uk/wp/di/di_wp01.htm. 1998  4  Barton, C., and Bear, M Information and Communications Technologies: Are they the Key to Viable Business Development Services for Micro and Small Enterprises? Report for USAID as part of the Microenterprise Best Practices Project Retrieved December 12, 2007, from http://www.mip.org/PUBS/MBP/ict.htm 1999 5  Braa, J. Monteiro, E. and Sahay, S Networks of Action: Sustainable Health Information Systems across Developing Countries  MIS Quarterly 28:3 Minneapolis: Sep 2004, pp. 337-363 6  Cecchini, S. and Scott, C Can information and communications technology applications contribute to poverty reduction? Lessons from rural India  Information Technology for Development 10:2\, 2003 pp.73-85 7  Chudnovsky D. and Lopez, A The Software and Services Sector in Argentina: the pros and cons of an inward-oriented development strategy  Information  Technology for Development 11:1\, 2005 8  Compeau, D. and Higgens, C Computer self-efficacy Development of a measure and initial test  MIS Quarterly 13:3\.  pp 319-339. 1995 9  Davis, F. D. "Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, and User Acceptance of Information Technology  MIS Quarterly 13:3\1989, pp 319-339  10  Grosh, B. and Somolekae, G. "Mighty oaks from little acorns: Can micro-enterprise serve as the seedbed of industrialization World Development Vol 24 No 12 pp.1879-90, 1996 11  Hawk, S. and McHenry, W The Maturation of the Russian Offshore Software Industry  Information  Technology for Development 11:1\, 2005 12  Hazan, M Virtual South: E-Commerce for unprivileged artisans Retrieved Dec 12, 2007, from http://www.iicd.org/stories 2002 13  Honig, B. "What determines success? Examining the human, financial, and social capital of Jamaican microentrepreneurs Journal of Business Venturing  13:5\, pp.371-94, 1998 14  Hyman, E.L. and Dearden, K. "Comprehensive impact assessment systems for NGO microenterprise development programs World  Development 26:2\ pp 261-276, 1998 15  Kenny, C.J Expanding Internet access to the rural poor in Africa  Information Technology for Development  9:1\, 2000, pp. 25-32 16  Kimaro, H. and Nhampossa, J.L Analysing the Problem of Unsustainable Health Information Systems in low Income Countries: Case Studies from Tanzania and Mozambique  Information Technology for  Development 11:3\, 2005, pp. 273-298 17  Klein, H.K, and Myers, M.D A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems  MIS Quarterly Vol. 23, No. 1 pp. 67 94. March 1999 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


18  Latchem. C. & Walker, D Telecentres: Case Studies and Key Issues Vancouver: The Commonwealth of Learning. 2001 19  Lichtenstein, G.A. and Lyons, T.S. "The entrepreneurial development system: Transforming business talent and community economies Economic Development Quarterly 15:1\, 2001, pp.3-20 20  Mansell, R., & Wehn, U Knowledge Societies Information Technology for Sustainable Development  Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998 21  Moore, G. and Benbasat, I Development of an instrument to measure the perceptions of adopting an information technology innovation Information Systems Research, \(2:3\ 192-222. 1991  22  Mosse E. L. and Sahay, S The Role of Communication Practices in the Strengthening of Counter Networks Case Experiences from the Health sector of Mozambique  Information Technology for  Development 11:3\, 2005 23  Nidumolu, S., Goodman, S., Vogel, D., and Danowitz A Information Technology for Local Administration Support: 1996 24  O'Farrell, C., Norrish, P., & Scott, A Information and Communication Technologies \(ICTs\ for Sustainable Livelihoods Burton Hall: Intermediate Technology Development Group. 1999 25  Owen, W., and Darkwa, O Role of Multipurpose Community Telecentres in Accelerating National Development in Ghana First Monday, Vol 5 No 1, pp 1-23, 1999 26  Piscitello, L., and Sgobbi, F Globalisation, E-Business and SMEs: Evidence from the Italian District of Prato  Small Business Economics Vol. 22, No. 5, June 2004 pg. 333 27  Preis-Heje, J., Baskerville, R. and Hansen, G Strategy Models for Enabling Offshore Outsourcing: Russian Short-Cycle-Time Software Development  Information Technology for Development 11:1\, 2005 28  Qiang CZ, Clarke GR, Halewood N. The Role of ICT In Doing Business Information and Communications for Development Global Trends and Policies, World Bank ed\orld Bank: Washington DC, 2006 29  Qureshi, S., Kamal, M  and Good, T.G Adoption of Information Technology by Micro-enterprises: Insights from a rural community  Proceedings of the 14th Annual Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS-14 Toronto, Canada. 2008 30  Qureshi, S., Kamal, M., and Wolcott, P Sustainability of Information Technology Therapy on Micro-enterprise Development HICSS. 2008 31  Qureshi, S How does Information technology effect Development? Integrating Theory and Practice into a Process Model  Proceedings of the eleventh Americas Conference on Information Systems Omaha, NE. 2005 32  Qureshi, S Fostering Associations in Africa through Networking  Information Infrastructure and Policy 1998, pp. 1-13 33  Raymond L, Bergeron F, Blili S. The assimilation of Ebusiness in manufacturing SMEs: determinants and effects on growth and internationalization. Electronic Markets 15\(2\: 106 118. 2005 34  Rodrigo, M. M. T Tradition or transformation? An evaluation of ICTs in Metro Manila schools  Information Technology for Development 10:2\, 2003 pp. 95-123 35  Rodrigues, A.J. and Govinda, S Towards an integrated management information system: A case of the University of Mauritius  Information Technology for  Development 10:1\, 2003, pp. 41-57 36  Sanders, C.K. "The impact of micro-enterprise assistance programs: A comparative study of program participants, non participants, and other low-wage workers," Social Service Review, \(76:2\.321-40 2002 37  Scheepers, H. and de Villiers, C Teaching of a computer literacy course in South Africa: A case study using traditional and co-operative learning  Information  Technology for Development 9:3\2000, pp. 175-188 38  Schreiner, M., & Woller, G Micro-enterprise Development Programs in the United States and in the Developing World  World Development 31:9\, pp 1567-1580, 2003 39  Southwood R. ICTs and Small Enterprise: A Motor of Economic Development in Africa, IICD Research Briefs, IICD, The Hague: IICD Research Briefs 9. 2004 40  Steinberg, J Information Technology and Development Beyond Either/Or  The Brookings Review 21\(2\:45-48. 2003 41  Tan F. and Leewongcharoen, K IT Industry Success In A Developing Country: The Case Of Thailand  Journal  of Information Technology for Development 11:2 2005 42  Thompson, R., Higgins, C. and Howell, J Personal computing:  Toward a conceptual model of utilization  MIS Quarterly 15:1\4-143. 1991  43  Venkatesh, V., Morris, M., Davis, G. and F. Davis User Acceptance of Information Technology: Toward a Unified View MIS Quarterly 27:3\ pp 425-478 2003  44  Walsham, G. and Sahay, S GIS for district-level administration in India: Problems and opportunities  MIS Quarterly 23:1\, 1999, pp. 39-65  45  Wolcott, P., Qureshi, S. and Kamal, M. "An Information Technology Therapy Approach to Micro-enterprise Adoption of ICTs" Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS\007  46  Barba-Sanchez, V., Martinez-Ruiz, M.P., and JimenezZarco, A.I Drivers, Benefits and Challenges of ICT Adoption by Small and Medium Sized Enterprises SMEs\ Literature Review  Problems and Perspectives in Management Vol. 5 No. 1, pg. 103 2007 47  Brady, M., Saren, M. and Tzokas, N Integrating Information Technology into Marketing Practice The IT Realize of Contemporary Marketing Practice  Journal of Marketing Management Vol. 18, pg. 555577. 2002  48  Strauss, A. and Corbin, J Basics of Qualitative Research: Grounded Theory Procedures and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Techniques Newbusry Park, CA and London: Sage Publications. 1990  49  Walsham, G. Interpretive case studies in IS research Nature and method European Journal of Information Systems  4 2\ 64 81. 1995  50  Patton, M. Q. Qualitative research and evaluation methods \(3rd ed.\housand Oakes, CA:Sage Publications, Inc. 2002   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Frame buffering delay – we assume a Space Link \nExtension \(SLE acquired and confirmed in one frame.  \nThus the frame buffering delay is 10240/R \(in unit \nof seconds Ground transmission delay – from prior statistics \nfor DSN data delivery over the NISN lines, we \nobserve that the long-haul latency between DSN \nsites and JPL Central is approximately 2 times the \npropagation delay.  As ground transmission latency \nis a small fraction compared to the other delays, we \nuse the rough estimation of two times propagation \ndelay to model the ground transmission delay.   \n \nUsing the Straight-Forward Leveling Scheme we estimate \nthe link sizes of the network paths of the four ISE options \nfor the “base” case and high” case traffic scenarios, both \nfor bulk science latency requirements of 1 hour and 8 hours nrespectively.  The aggregated WAN bandwidths of the four \nISE options for both cases are given in Tables 1 and 2.   \n \n \nTable 1: Aggregated WAN Bandwidths \(Gbps Straight-Forward \nLeveling Scheme \n \n \nTable 2: Aggregated WAN Bandwidths \(Gbps Eight Hours, Straight-Forward \nLeveling Scheme \n \nSimilarly we apply the 2-State Markov Leveling Scheme, \nand the aggregated WAN bandwidths of the four ISE \noptions for the base and high cases are given in Table 3 \n\(with bulk science latency of 1 hour with bulk \nscience latency of 8 hours Aggregated WAN Bandwidths \(Gbps nTable 4: Aggregated WAN Bandwidths \(Gbps Scheme \n \nTo validate the accuracy of the leveling schemes, we choose \nthe DSN’s GSS-MOC links for the ISE option-1 for the case \nwhen the bulk science latency requirement is one hour, and \ncompare the bandwidth estimates generated by the Straight-\nForward Leveling Scheme and those generated by direct \nsimulation using MACHETE10.  The comparison results are \nshown in Table 5.   \n \n \nTable 5: Comparison of “Straight-Forward Leveling \nScheme with MACHETE Simulation for ISE Option-1 \n \nThe above comparison indicates that the straight-forward” \nleveling scheme is a close approximation to the Qualnet \ndirect simulation in the case when the bulk science latency \nrequirement is relatively small \(one hour estimation results generated by the analytical \nleveling approach can be used in costing of the architecture noptions11.    \n \nThe end-to-end traffic flow simulations reveal the following \ninteresting facts:   \n1. For ISE-3 and ISE-4, the GSS-INOC links are real-\ntime bit streams and the link sizes are driven by the ninstantaneous aggregated data rates.   \n\t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t 


t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t n10\t NASA JPL’s Multi-mission Advanced Communication \nHybrid Environment for Test and Evaluation.   \n11 WAN cost is a major recurring cost component for the \nISE options, and the INA Study Review Board has decided \nto do costing analysis based on the bulk science latency \nrequirement of one hour.   \n10\t n\t n2. All other links are store-and-forward links, and the \nlink sizes are driven by the combined effects of nmission data rates, data types with different latency \nrequirements, and duty cycles.   \n3. For ISE-3 and ISE-4, the aggregated WAN \nbandwidths are insensitive to data type latency \nrequirements as their WAN bandwidths are \ndominated by the real-time GSS-INOC links.   \n4. For ISE-4 with two different bulk science latency \nrequirements, the aggregated WAN bandwidths for \nthe high-case are only 20% higher than those of the nnominal case.  This is because the ISE-4 WAN \nbandwidths are dominated by GSS-INOC links that \ntransport RF/IF samples, and are independent of \nthe data rates.   \n5. For ISE-3, ISE-4, and ISE-5, the aggregated WAN nbandwidths of the “high” case are approximately \nthree times as those of the “base” case.  This is nconsistent with the fact that the “high” case \nconsists of future mission data rates that are 3 times \nthose of the “base” case.   \n6. The WAN bandwidths of ISE-3 and ISE-4 are \nmuch higher than those of ISE-1 and ISE-2.   \n \n \nV. CONCLUDING REMARKS AND FUTURE WORK \n \nIn this paper, we describe new leveling schemes to model \nthe traffic flow and buffering mechanism of a large-scale \nstore-and-forward network.  We apply these techniques to \nestimate the wide area network \(WAN options of the \nproposed Integrated Space Communication and Navigation \n\(ScaN improve the fidelity \nof the leveling schemes and enhance the INA Study are as \nfollows:   \n1. Use statistical description to define link bandwidth \nrequirements.  The current analysis uses the min-\nmax approach to estimate the link sizes of a \nnetwork as described in Section 4.  A better \napproach to quantify the link sizes is to describe \nthe individual link size in terms of mean and \nvariance based on the simulated traffic that flows \nthrough the link.  By invoking the Gaussian \nassumption and using the 2nd order statistics ngathered from the traffic flow simulation, one can \nspecify the link sizes based on the statistical nconfidence level to prevent overflow.   \n2. Provide data type modeling for each individual \nmission.  The current analysis makes blanket \nassumptions on mission data types across all the \nmissions as described in 


Section 4.  When data \ntype allocation information is available for an \nindividual mission, we can implement the specific \ndata type allocation for that particular mission to \nimprove the simulation fidelity.   \n3 Include other latency contributions.  The current \nanalysis only models the store-and-forward delay \nbased on the latency requirements of the data types, \nwhich accounts for the majority of the latency in \nthe data delivery operation.  We can improve the \naccuracy of the analysis by modeling the additional \nlatency contribution of codeword buffering delay, \nframe buffering delay, and ground transmission \ndelay as described in Section 4.   \n \n \nACKNOWLEDGEMENT \nThe authors would like to thank John Segui for his \nengineering and simulation support, and Loren Clare for his \ninsightful comments.  This work was carried out at the Jet nPropulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, \nunder a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space \nAdministration.  The research was supported by the \nNASA’s Space Communication and Navigation SCaN  http://www.scalable-networks.com/.   \n[2] Opnet Technologies website: http://www.opnet.com/.   \n[3] K. Cheung D. Abraham, “End-to-End Traffic Flow  \n      Modeling of the Integrated SCaN Network,” the  \n Interplanetary Network Progress Report, Volume 42- \n      189, May 15, 2012.   \n \n11\t n\t nBIOGRAPHIES \nKar-Ming Cheung is a Principal Engineer \nand Technical Group Supervisor in the \nCommunication Architectures and Research \nSection \(332 deep-\nspace and near-Earth communication \nsystems and architectures.  Kar-Ming Cheung received \nNASA’s Exceptional Service Medal for his work on \nGalileo’s onboard image compression scheme.  He has \nauthored or co-authored 30+ journal papers and conference \npapers in the areas of error-correction coding, data ncompression, image processing, and telecom system \noperations.  Since 1987 he has been with JPL where he is ninvolved in research, development, production, operation, \nand management of advanced channel coding, source ncoding, synchronization, image restoration, and \ncommunication analysis schemes.  He got his B.S.E.E. \ndegree from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor in \n1984, his M.S. degree and Ph.D. degree from California nInstitute of Technology in 1985 and 1987 respectively.   \n \nDr. Esther Jennings is a Team Lead and \nSenior Member of Technical Staff at \nScalable Networks Technologies. Prior to \nthis, she was a research staff with the \nCommunications Architectures and \nResearch Section of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory where \nshe was the task manager of “Hybrid Simulation \nEnvironment for the Interplanetary Network” under the \nInterplanetary Network Directorate Information Technology \nProgram. She received a Ph.D. in Computer Science from \nLule University of Technology, Sweden. After that, she \nwas a postdoctoral fellow at the Industrial Engineering nDepartment at Technion, Israel Institute of Technology. She \nalso worked as an assistant professor at the Computer \nScience Department of California State Polytechnic \nUniversity, Pomona. \n \n 


MIT Com-\nmonality study, a 16 firm investigation\nof platforming returns. Dr. Cameron’s\ncurrent clients include Fortune 500 firms\nin high tech, aerospace, transportation,\nand consumer goods. Prior to MIT,\nBruce worked as an engagement man-\nager at a management consultancy and as a system engineer\nat MDA Space Systems, and has built hardware currently in\norbit. Dr. Cameron received his undergraduate degree from\nthe University of Toronto, and graduate degrees from MIT.\nDr. Edward F. Crawley received an\nSc.D. in Aerospace Structures from MIT\nin 1981. His early research interests\ncentered on structural dynamics, aeroe-\nlasticity, and the development of actively\ncontrolled and intelligent structures. Re-\ncently, Dr. Crawleys research has fo-\ncused on the domain of the architecture\nand design of complex systems. From\n1996 to 2003 he served as the Depart-\nment Head of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT, leading\nthe strategic realignment of the department Dr. Crawley is a\nFellow of the AIAA and the Royal Aeronautical Society \(UK academies of engineering.\n15\nHe is the author of numerous journal publications in the\nAIAA Journal, the ASME Journal, the Journal of Composite\nMaterials, and Acta Astronautica. He received the NASA\nPublic Service Medal Recently, Prof Crawley was one of\nthe ten members of the presidential committee led by Norman\nAugustine to study the future of human spaceflight in the US.\nBernard D. Seery is the Assistant Di-\nrector for Advanced Concepts in the Of-\nfice of the Director at NASA’s Goddard\nSpace Flight Center \(GSFC include assisting the Deputy\nDirector for Science and Technology\nwith development of new mission and\nmeasurement concepts, strategic analy-\nsis, strategy development and investment\nresources prioritization Prior assign-\nments at NASA Headquarters included Deputy for Advanced\nPlanning and Director of the Advanced Planning and In-\ntegration Office \(APIO and Evaluation \(PA&E DAA and Physical Research \(OBPR Directorate, Code 600, at \(GSFC bachelors of science in physics, with emphasis in\nnuclear physics. He then attended the University of Ari-\nzona’s School of Optical Sciences, and obtained a masters\ndegree in Optical Sciences, specializing in nonlinear optical\napproaches to automated alignment and wavefront control\nof a large, electrically-pumped CO2 laser fusion driver. He\ncompleted all the course work for a PhD in Optical Sciences\nin 1979, with emphasis in laser physics and spectroscopy. He\nhas been a staff member in the Laser Fusion Division \(L-\n1 Alamos National Laboratories \(LANL working on innovative infrared laser auto-alignment\nsystems and infrared interferometry for target alignment for\nthe HELIOS 10 kilojoule, eight-beam carbon dioxide laser\nfusion system. In 1979 he joined TRW’s Space and Defense\norganization in Redondo Beach, CA and designed and de-\nveloped several high-power space lasers and sophisticated\nspacecraft electro-optics payloads. He received the TRW\nPrincipal Investigators award for 8 consecutive years.\nDr. Antonios A. Seas is a Study Man-\nager at the Advanced Concept and For-\nmulation Office ACFO Electro-Optics branch where\nhe focused on optical communications\nand the development of laser systems\nfor space applications. Prior to joining\nNASA in 2005 he spent several years in\nthe telecommunication industry developing long haul sub-\nmarine fiber optics systems, and as an Assistant Professor\nat the Bronx Community College. Antonios received his\nundergraduate and graduate degrees from the City College of\nNew York, and his doctoral degree from the Graduate Center\nof the City University of New York. He is also a certified\nProject Management Professional.\n16\n 


1483\nSUB-NYQUIST SAMPLING RATES\nMustafa Al-Ani, University of Westminster, United Kingdom; Bashar Ahmad, University of Cambridge, \nUnited Kingdom; Andrzej Tarczynski University of Westminster, United Kingdom\nTPa-8.10: OPPORTUNISTIC TRANSMITTER SELECTION FOR SELFLESS 1488\nOVERLAY COGNITIVE RADIOS\nMohammad Shaqfeh, Texas A&M University at Qatar, Qatar; Ammar Zafar, King Abdullah University \nof Science and Technology, Saudi Arabia Hussein Alnuweiri, Texas A&M University at Qatar, Qatar; \nMohamed-Slim Alouini, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Saudi Arabia\nTPa-8.11: A GAME THEORETIC POWER CONTROL FRAMEWORK FOR 1493\nSPECTRUM SHARING IN COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENTS\nRaghed El-Bardan, Swastik Brahma, Pramod K. Varshney, Syracuse University, United States\nTPa-8.12: COGNITIVE RADIO TRANSMISSION STRATEGIES FOR PRIMARY ...........................................1498\nERASURE CHANNELS\nAhmed ElSamadouny, University of Texas at Dallas, United States; Mohammed Nafie, Ahmed Sultan, \nNile University Egypt\nTPa-8: RELAYS IN COMMUNICATIONS\nTPa-8.1: OPTIMIZED RECEIVER DESIGN FOR DECODE-AND-FORWARD 1535\nRELAYS USING HIERARCHICAL MODULATION\nTu Nguyen, Broadcom Corporation, United States; Pamela Cosman, Laurence Milstein, University of \nCalifornia, San Diego, United States\nTPa-8.2: OPTIMAL LINEAR-COMBINING RECEIVER FOR 1540\nDECODE-AND-FORWARD RELAYS USING SUPERPOSITION CODING\nTu Nguyen, Broadcom Corporation, United States; Laurence Milstein, University of California, San \nDiego, United States\nTPa-8.3: ALTERNATE RELAYING AND THE DEGREES OF FREEDOM OF 1545\nONE-WAY CELLULAR RELAY NETWORKS\nAya Salah, Amr El-Keyi Mohammed Nafie, Nile University, Egypt\nTPa-8.4: DISTRIBUTED AF BEAMFORMING RELAY NETWORKS UNDER 1550\nTRANSMIT POWER CONSTRAINT\nKanghee Lee, Hyuck M. Kwon Edwin M. Sawan, Wichita State University, United States; Hyuncheol \nPark, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Republic of Korea\nTPa-8.5: JOINT TRANSMIT DESIGN AND NODE SELECTION FOR 1555\nONE-WAY AND TWO-WAY UNTRUSTED RELAY CHANNELS\nJing Huang, A. Lee Swindlehurst, University of California, Irvine, United States\nTPa-8.6: WIRELESS PHYSICAL LAYER SECURITY ENHANCEMENT WITH  ..............................................1560\nBUFFER-AIDED RELAYING\nJing Huang, A. Lee Swindlehurst, University of California, Irvine, United States\nTPa-8.7: TRAINING SLOT ALLOCATION FOR MITIGATING ESTIMATION  ................................................1565\nERROR PROPAGATION IN A TWO-HOP RELAYING SYSTEM\nQian Gao, Gang Chen, Yingbo Hua, University of California, Riverside United States\nxxv\nTPa-8.8: TRANSMIT OUTAGE PRE-EQUALIZATION FOR 1570\nAMPLIFY-AND-FORWARD RELAY CHANNELS\nFernando Sanchez, Gerald Matz, Vienna University of Technology, Austria\nTPa-8: ADAPTIVE FILTERING\nTPa-8.1: A GRADIENT-CONTROLLED IMPROVED PROPORTIONATE 1505\nMULTI-DELAY FILTER\nJie Yang, Texas Instruments United States; Gerald Sobelman, University of Minnesota, United States\nTPa-8.2: COMPLEX PROPORTIONATE-TYPE AFFINE PROJECTION  ...........................................................1510\nALGORITHMS\nKevin Wagner Naval Research Laboratory, United States; Miloš Doroslovacki, George Washington \nUniversity, United States\nTPa-8.3: RADAR WAVEFORM DESIGN IN ACTIVE COMMUNICATIONS 1515\nCHANNEL\nKevin Shepherd, Ric Romero, Naval Postgraduate School, United States\nTPa-8.4: THE LEAKY LEAST MEAN MIXED NORM ALGORITHM................................................................1520\nMohammed Abdul Nasar, Azzedine Zerguine, King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals, Saudi \nArabia\nTPa-8.5: A NEW VARIABLE STEP-SIZE ZERO-POINT ATTRACTING  ...........................................................1524\nPROJECTION ALGORITHM\nJianming Liu, Steven Grant, Missouri University of Science and Technology, United States\nTPa-8.6 RECURSIVE LEAST SQUARES FILTERING UNDER STOCHASTIC 1529\nCOMPUTATIONAL ERRORS\nChandrasekhar Radhakrishnan, Andrew Singer, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United \nStates\nTPa-8: CELLULAR AND HETEROGENEOUS NETWORKS\nTPa-8.1: DOWNLINK COVERAGE ANALYSIS OF N-TIER 1577\nHETEROGENEOUS CELLULAR NETWORKS BASED ON CLUSTERED STOCHASTIC \nGEOMETRY\nChunlin Chen, Robert Elliott, Witold Krzymien, University of Alberta / Telecommunications Research \nLaboratories, Canada\nTPa-8.2: SYSTEM-LEVEL PERFORMANCE OF THE MIMO-OFDM 1582\nDOWNLINK WITH DENSE SMALL CELL OVERLAYS\nThomas Wirth, Bernd Hofeld, Fraunhofer Heinrich Hertz Institute, Germany\nTPa-8.3: ADAPTIVE HARQ AND SCHEDULING FOR VIDEO OVER LTE......................................................1584\nAvi Rapaport, Weimin 


Liu, Liangping Ma, Gregory S. Sternberg, Ariela J. Zeira, Anantharaman \nBalasubramanian, InterDigital, United States\nTPa-8.4: NOVEL PARTIAL FEEDBACK SCHEMES AND THEIR EVALUATION 1589\nIN AN OFDMA SYSTEM WITH CDF BASED SCHEDULING\nAnh Nguyen University of California, San Diego, United States; Yichao Huang, Qualcomm \nTechnologies, Inc., United States Bhaskar D. Rao, University of California, San Diego, United States\nTPa-8.5: OPPORTUNISTIC THIRD-PARTY BACKHAUL FOR CELLULAR  ...................................................1594\nWIRELESS NETWORKS\nRussell Ford, Changkyu Kim, Sundeep Rangan, Polytechnic Institute of New York University, United \nStates\nTPa-8.6: PROACTIVE USER ASSOCIATION IN WIRELESS SMALL CELL  ...................................................1601\nNETWORKS VIA COLLABORATIVE FILTERING\nFrancesco Pantisano, Joint Research Center, Italy; Mehdi Bennis, University of Oulu Finland; Walid \nSaad, University of Miami, United States; Stefan Valentin, Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent, Germany nMérouane Debbah, Supélec, France; Alessio Zappone, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany\nTPa-8.7 INTERFERENCE ANALYSIS OF MULTI-HOP CELLULAR SENSOR 1606\nNETWORKS\nYeashfi Hasan, R. Michael Buehrer, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, United States\nxxvi\nTPb-1: FULL-DUPLEX MIMO COMMUNICATIONS II\nTPb-1.1: DIVERSITY-MULTIPLEXING TRADEOFF ANALYSIS OF MIMO 1613\nRELAY NETWORKS WITH FULL-DUPLEX RELAYS\nQiang Xue University of Oulu, Finland; Anna Pantelidou, Renesas Mobile Europe, Finland; Behnaam \nAazhang, Rice University, United States\nTPb-1.2: ERGODIC MUTUAL INFORMATION OF FULL-DUPLEX MIMO 1618\nRADIOS WITH RESIDUAL SELF-INTERFERENCE\nAli Cagatay Cirik, University of California, Riverside, United States; Yue Rong, Curtin University, \nAustralia; Yingbo Hua, University of California, Riverside, United States\nTPb-1.3: FULL-DUPLEX IN LARGE-SCALE WIRELESS SYSTEMS 1623\nBei Yin, Michael Wu, Christoph Studer Joseph R. Cavallaro, Rice University, United States; Jorma \nLilleberg, Broadcom, United States\nTPb-1.4 FULL-DUPLEX COMMUNICATION VIA ADAPTIVE NULLING......................................................1628\nScott Johnston, Paul Fiore, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, United States\nTPb-1.5: WEIGHTED-SUM-RATE MAXIMIZATION FOR BI-DIRECTIONAL  ...............................................1632\nFULL-DUPLEX MIMO SYSTEMS\nAli Cagatay Cirik, University of California, Riverside, United States; Rui Wang, The Chinese nUniversity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR of China; Yingbo Hua, University of California, Riverside, \nUnited States\nTPb-2: PHY PERFORMANCE ABSTRACTION TECHNIQUES\nTPb-2.1: STOCHASTIC DYNAMIC MODELS IN PHY ABSTRACTION 1639\nFrancesc Rey, Josep Sala-Alvarez, Technical University of Catalonia, Spain\nTPb-2.2: ON SCALABILITY, ROBUSTNESS AND ACCURACY OF PHYSICAL 1644\nLAYER ABSTRACTION FOR LARGE-SCALE SYSTEM LEVEL EVALUATIONS OF LTE \nNETWORKS\nFlorian Kaltenberger, Imran Latif, Raymond Knopp, Eurecom, France\nTPb-2.3: LINK ADAPTATION IN MIMO-OFDM WITH PRACTICAL 1649\nIMPAIRMENTS\nAlberto Rico-Alvarino University of Vigo, Spain; Robert W. Heath, Jr., University of Texas at Austin, \nUnited States\nTPb-2.4 DIGITAL PRE-DISTORTION OF RADIO FREQUENCY 1654\nFRONT-END IMPAIRMENTS IN THE DESIGN OF SPECTRALLY AGILE MULTICARRIER \nTRANSMISSION \nZhu Fu, Alexander Wyglinski, Worcester Polytechnic Institute United States\nTPb-2.5: SYSTEM-LEVEL INTERFACES AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 1659\nMETHODOLOGY FOR 5G PHYSICAL LAYER BASED ON NON-ORTHOGONAL nWAVEFORMS\nGerhard Wunder, Martin Kasparick, Fraunhofer Heinrich Hertz Institute, Germany; Stephan Ten \nBrink University of Stuttgart, Germany; Frank Schaich, Thorsten Wild, Yejian Chen, Bell Labs, \nAlcatel-Lucent Germany; Ivan Gaspar, Nicola Michailow, Gerhard Fettweis, Technische Universität \nDresden, Germany; Dimitri Ktenas, Nicolas Cassiau, Commissariat à l’énergie atomique et aux \nénergies alternatives, France; Marcin Dryjanski, Kamil Sorokosz, Slawomir Pietrzyk, IS-Wireless, \nPoland; Bertalan Eged, National Instruments Hungary\nTPb-3: LOW-DIMENSIONAL SIGNAL MODELS\nTPb-3.1: NEAREST SUBSPACE CLASSIFICATION WITH MISSING DATA 1667\nYuejie Chi, The Ohio State University, United States\nTPb-3.2: REFLECTIONS ON SAMPLING-FILTERS FOR COMPRESSIVE 1672\nSENSING AND FINITE-INNOVATIONS-RATE MODELS\nP. P Vaidyanathan, Srikanth Tenneti, California Institute of Technology, United States\nTPb-3.3: IDENTIFIABILITY BOUNDS FOR BILINEAR INVERSE 1677\nPROBLEMS\nSunav Choudhary, Urbashi Mitra, University of Southern California, United States\nTPb-3.4: LOAD FORECASTING VIA LOW RANK AND SPARSE 


MATRIX  ...................................................1682\nFACTORIZATION\nSeung-Jun Kim, Georgios B Giannakis, University of Minnesota, United States\nxxvii\nTPb-3.5: SEMI-BLIND SOURCE SEPARATION VIA SPARSE 1687\nREPRESENTATIONS AND ONLINE DICTIONARY LEARNING\nSirisha Rambhatla, Jarvis Haupt, University of Minnesota - Twin Cities, United States\nTPb-4: LOCATION-AWARE NETWORKING\nTPb-4.1: ROBUST LINK SCHEDULING WITH CHANNEL ESTIMATION 1695\nAND LOCATION INFORMATION\nSrikar Muppirisetty, Rocco Di Taranto, Henk Wymeersch, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden\nTPb-4.2: SIMULTANEOUS ROUTING AND POWER ALLOCATION USING  .................................................1700\nLOCATION INFORMATION\nRocco Di Taranto Henk Wymeersch, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden\nTPb-4.3: LOCATION AWARE TRAINING SCHEME FOR D2D NETWORKS ..................................................1705\nDaoud Burghal, Andreas F. Molisch, University of Southern California, United States\nTPb-4.4: A COOPERATIVE HIGH-ACCURACY LOCALIZATION ALGORITHM 1709\nFOR IMPROVED ROAD WORKERS’ SAFETY\nSankalp Dayal, Adam Mortazavi, Khanh H. Huynh, University of California, Santa Barbara, United \nStates; Ramez L. Gerges California Department of Transportation, United States; John J. Shynk, \nUniversity of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nTPb-4.5: REAL-TIME ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT WITH 1714\nRENEWABLE ENERGY OF ARBITRARY GENERATION DYNAMICS\nTianyi Li, Min Dong, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Canada\nTPb-5: ANALYSIS OF COMPLEX BIOLOGICAL SYSTEMS AND OMICS DATA II\nTPb-5.2: STATISTICAL VALIDATION OF PARAMETRIC APPROXIMATIONS TO 1721\nTHE MASTER EQUATION\nGarrett Jenkinson, John Goutsias, The Johns Hopkins University, United States\nTPb-5.4: A MESSAGE-PASSING ALGORITHM FOR HAPLOTYPE ASSEMBLY 1726\nZrinka Puljiz, Haris Vikalo, University of Texas at Austin United States\nTPb-6: TARGET TRACKING I\nTPb-6.1: TRACK STATE AUGMENTATION FOR ESTIMATION OF 1733\nPROBABILITY OF DETECTION IN MULTISTATIC SONAR DATA\nEvan Hanusa, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nTPb-6.2: HYPOTHESIS STRUCTURE IN ENHANCED 1738\nMULTIPLE-HYPOTHESIS TRACKING\nStefano Coraluppi, Craig Carthel, Compunetix Inc., United States; Marco Guerriero, SAIRA/FAR nAMERICAS Inc., United States\nTPb-6.3: SPLINE PROBABILITY HYPOTHESIS DENSITY FILTER FOR 1743\nNONLINEAR MANEUVERING TARGET TRACKING\nRajiv Sithravel, Xin Chen, McMaster University, Canada; Mike McDonald, Defence Research and \nDevelopment Canada Canada; Thia Kirubarajan, McMaster University, Canada\nTPb-6.4: PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS OF THE CONVERTED RANGE RATE  ...............................................1751\nAND POSITION LINEAR KALMAN FILTER\nSteven Bordonaro Naval Undersea Research Center, United States; Peter Willett, Yaakov Bar-Shalom, \nUniversity of Connecticut United States\nTPb-6.5: MAP-PF MULTITARGET TRACKING WITH PROPAGATION 1756\nMODELING UNCERTAINTIES\nKristine Bell, Robert Zarnich, Metron, United States\nTPb-7: MACHINE LEARNING AND STATISTICAL SIGNAL PROCESSING II\nTPb-7.1 FORWARD/BACKWARD STATE AND MODEL PARAMETER 1763\nESTIMATION FOR CONTINUUM-STATE HIDDEN MARKOV MODELS \(CHMM States\nxxviii\nTPb-7.2: LOW-RANK KERNEL LEARNING FOR ELECTRICITY MARKET 1768\nINFERENCE\nVassilis Kekatos, Yu Zhang, Georgios B Giannakis, University of Minnesota, United States\nTPb-7.3: HIERARCHICAL CLUSTERING METHODS AND ALGORITHMS 1773\nFOR ASYMMETRIC NETWORKS\nGunnar Carlsson, Stanford University, United States; Facundo Mémoli, University of Adelaide, \nAustralia; Alejandro Ribeiro, Santiago Segarra, University of Pennsylvania, United States\nTPb-7.5: ACHIEVING COMPLETE LEARNING IN MULTI-ARMED BANDIT 1778\nPROBLEMS\nSattar Vakili, Qing Zhao, University of California, Davis, United States\nTPb-8: DESIGN AUTOMATION\nTPb-8.1: MPMAP: A HIGH LEVEL SYNTHESIS AND MAPPING TOOL FOR  ................................................1785\nMPSOCS\nAmr Hussien, Ahmed M. Eltawil University of California, Irvine, United States; Rahul Amin, Jim \nMartin, Clemson University, United States\nTPb-8.2: SOFTWARE TOOL FOR FPGA BASED MIMO RADAR APPLICATIONS 1792\nAmin Jarrah, Mohsin M. Jamali, University of Toledo, United States\nTPb-8.3: MULTI-CLOCK DOMAIN OPTIMIZATION FOR 1796\nRECONFIGURABLE ARCHITECTURES IN HIGH-LEVEL DATAFLOW APPLICATIONS\nSimone Casale-Brunet, Endri Bezati, Claudio Alberti, Marco 


Mattavelli, École Polytechnique Fédérale \nde Lausanne \(EPFL Milano, Italy; Jörn Janneck, Lund \nUniversity, Sweden\nTPb-8.4: ACTOR CLASSIFICATION USING ACTOR MACHINES 1801\nGustav Cedersjö, Jörn Janneck, Lund University, Sweden\nTPb-8.5: SYSTEMS DESIGN SPACE EXPLORATION BY SERIAL DATAFLOW 1805\nPROGRAM EXECUTIONS\nSimone Casale-Brunet, Marco Mattavelli Claudio Alberti, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne \n\(EPFL Sweden\nTPb-8.7: REAL-TIME RADAR SIGNAL PROCESSING ON MASSIVELY 1810\nPARALLEL PROCESSOR ARRAYS\nZain Ul-Abdin, Halmstad University, Sweden; Anders Åhlander, Saab AB, Sweden; Bertil Svensson, \nHalmstad University, Sweden\nTPb-8.8 ALGORITHM AND ARCHITECTURE CO-DESIGN OF MIXTURE  ..................................................1815\nOF GAUSSIAN \(MOG States; Robert Bushey, Analog Devices Inc., \nUnited States; Gunar Schirner Schirner, Northeastern University United States\nTPb-8: MULTIUSER MIMO SYSTEMS\nTPb-8.1: MULTI-USER MIMO SCHEDULING IN THE FOURTH 1855\nGENERATION CELLULAR UPLINK\nNarayan Prasad, NEC Laboratories America, Inc., United States; Honghai Zhang, Google, United \nStates; Hao Zhu University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States; Sampath Rangarajan, \nNEC Laboratories America Inc., United States\nTPb-8.2: OPTIMAL DOF REGION OF THE TWO-USER MISO-BC WITH 1860\nGENERAL ALTERNATING CSIT\nJinyuan Chen, Petros Elia Eurecom, France\nTPb-8.3: EXPLOITING SPATIAL SPECTRUM HOLES IN MULTIUSER 1865\nMIMO SYSTEMS\nFeeby Salib, Karim Seddik, American University in Cairo, Egypt\nTPb-8.4: DEGREES OF FREEDOM ACHIEVED USING SUBSPACE 1869\nALIGNMENT CHAINS FOR THREE-CELL NETWORKS\nGokul Sridharan, Wei Yu, University of Toronto, Canada\nTPb-8.5: INTERFERENCE ALIGNMENT FOR MISO BROADCAST  ...............................................................1875\nCHANNELS UNDER JAMMING ATTACKS\nSaiDhiraj Amuru, Ravi Tandon, R. Michael Buehrer, T. Charles Clancy, Virginia Tech, United States\nxxix\nTPb-8.6: PERFORMANCE STUDY OF MRC AND IRC WEIGHTS IN 1880\nLTE/LTE-A SYSTEMS WITH INTERFERENCE MANAGEMENT\nThomas Svantesson, ArrayComm, United States\nTPb-8.8: A SYSTEM-LEVEL STUDY ON MULTI-USER MIMO 1885\nTRANSMISSION FOR DENSE FDD NETWORKS\nLars Thiele, Martin Kurras, Kai Börner, Thomas Haustein, Fraunhofer HHI, Germany\nTPb-8.9 DIVERSITY-MULTIPLEXING TRADEOFF OF MIMO LINEAR 1890\nPRECODING\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nTPb-8: ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY AND BRAIN IMAGING\nTPb-8.1: JOINT COMPRESSION OF NEURAL ACTION POTENTIALS AND 1823\nLOCAL FIELD POTENTIALS\nSebastian Schmale, Benjamin Knoop, Janpeter Hoeffmann, Dagmar Peters-Drolshagen, Steffen Paul, \nUniversity of Bremen, Germany\nTPb-8.2 REDUCING THE EFFECT OF CORRELATED BRAIN SOURCES IN  ...............................................1828\nMEG USING A LINEARLY CONSTRAINED SPATIAL FILTER BASED ON MINIMUM \nNORM\nJosé Alfonso Sánchez De Lucio, David M Halliday, University of York, United Kingdom\nTPb-8.3: ONLINE BAYESIAN CHANGE POINT DETECTION ALGORITHMS 1833\nFOR SEGMENTATION OF EPILEPTIC ACTIVITY\nRakesh Malladi, Rice Unviersity, United States; Giridhar P Kalamangalam, University of Texas Health \nScience Center, United States Behnaam Aazhang, Rice Unviersity, United States\nTPb-8.4: SPIKING NEURAL NETWORKS BASED ON LIF WITH LATENCY 1838\nSIMULATION AND SYNCHRONIZATION EFFECTS\nGian Carlo Cardarilli, Alessandro Cristini, Marco Re, Mario Salerno, Gianluca Susi, University of \nRome Tor Vergata Italy\nTPb-8.5: TIME-FREQUENCY ANALYSIS OF BRAIN ELECTRICAL SIGNALS 1843\nFOR BEHAVIOUR RECOGNITION IN PATIENTS WITH PARKINSON’S DISEASE\nHuaiguang Jiang, Jun Jason Zhang, University of Denver, United States; Adam Hebb, Colorado nNeurological Institute, United States; Mohammad H. Mahoor, University of Denver, United States\nTPb-8.7: A MEASURE OF CONNECTIVITY IN THE PRESENCE OF 1848\nCROSSTALK\nSergul Aydore, Syed Ashrafulla Anand Joshi, Richard M Leahy, University of Southern California, \nUnited States\nWAa-1: MIMO INTERFERENCE MANAGEMENT\nWAa-1.1: DEGREES OF FREEDOM FOR THE CONSTANT MIMO 1897\nINTERFERENCE CHANNEL WITH COMP TRANSMISSION\nCraig Wilson, Venugopal V. Veeravalli, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United 


States\nWAa-1.2: DYNAMIC INTERFERENCE MANAGEMENT 1902\nAly El Gamal Venugopal V. Veeravalli, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States\nWAa-1.3: A MUD/RATE SELECTION TOOL FOR COGNITIVE RADIOS IN  ..................................................1907\nPACKET BASED ASYNCHRONOUS GAUSSIAN MULTIPLE ACCESS CHANNELS\nPrabahan Basu, Rachel Learned, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States\nWAa-1.4: PRECODER DESIGN FOR FRACTIONAL INTERFERENCE 1912\nALIGNMENT\nHari Ram Balakrishnan, Giridhar K Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India\nWAa-2: OFDM\nWAa-2.1: MIMO-OFDM OUTAGE CHANNEL CAPACITY WITH PRACTICAL  .............................................1919\nIMPERFECT CSI\nMarko Kocic, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Nicholas Chang, Applied Communication \nSciences, United States; Matthew Ferreira MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States\nxxx\nWAa-2.2: BIASED ESTIMATION OF SYMBOL TIMING OFFSET IN OFDM 1924\nSYSTEMS\nRohan Ramlall, University of California, Irvine United States\nWAa-2.3: A FACTOR-GRAPH APPROACH TO JOINT OFDM CHANNEL 1929\nESTIMATION AND DECODING IN IMPULSIVE NOISE CHANNELS\nMarcel Nassar, University of Texas at Austin, United States; Philip Schniter, The Ohio State University, \nUnited States; Brian Evans, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWAa-2.4: WIDELY LINEAR DATA ESTIMATION FOR UNIQUE WORD  ........................................................1934\nOFDM\nMario Huemer, Alexander Onic, Christian Hofbauer, Stefan Trampitsch, Johannes Kepler University \nLinz Austria\nWAa-3: ADAPTIVE FILTERING\nWAa-3.1: A GRADIENT-CONTROLLED PROPORTIONATE TECHNIQUE FOR 1941\nACOUSTIC ECHO CANCELLATION\nJie Yang, Texas Instruments United States; Gerald Sobelman, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAa-3.2: INTERFERENCE IDENTIFICATION IN CELLULAR NETWORKS  .................................................1946\nVIA ADAPTIVE PROJECTED SUBGRADIENT METHODS\nKonstantin Oltmann, Renato L. G. Cavalcante, Slawomir Stanczak, Martin Kasparick, Fraunhofer \nHeirinch Hertz Institute, Germany\nWAa-3.3: A RECONSIDERATION OF IMPROVED PNLMS ALGORITHM 1951\nFROM METRIC COMBINING VIEWPOINT\nOsamu Toda, Masahiro Yukawa, Keio University, Japan\nWAa-3.4: DETECTION PERFORMANCE OF MATCHED TRANSMIT 1956\nWAVEFORM FOR MOVING EXTENDED TARGETS\nRic Romero, Naval Postgraduate School, United States\nWAa-4: RELAYING AND COOPERATION\nWAa-4.1: TWO-WAY AMPLIFY-AND-FORWARD RELAY STRATEGIES  .......................................................1963\nUNDER RELAY POWER CONSTRAINT\nKanghee Lee, Hyuck M. Kwon, Edwin M. Sawan, Wichita State University, United States Hyuncheol \nPark, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Republic of Korea\nWAa-4.2: GAUSSIAN INTERFERING RELAY CHANNELS...............................................................................1968\nHieu T. Do, Tobias J. Oechtering, Mikael Skoglund, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden; Mai \nVu, Tufts University, United States\nWAa-4.3: THROUGHPUT IMPROVEMENTS FOR CELLULAR SYSTEMS 1973\nWITH DEVICE-TO-DEVICE COMMUNICATIONS\nPhuongBang Nguyen, Bhaskar D. Rao, University of California, San Diego, United States\nWAa-4.4: COOPERATIVE SIMULTANEOUS LOCALIZATION AND  ...............................................................1978\nSYNCHRONIZATION: A DISTRIBUTED HYBRID MESSAGE PASSING ALGORITHM\nBernhard Etzlinger, Johannes Kepler University, Austria; Florian Meyer, Vienna University of \nTechnology, Austria; Andreas Springer, Johannes Kepler University, Austria; Franz Hlawatsch, Vienna \nUniversity of Technology, Austria; Henk Wymeersch, Chalmers University of Technology Sweden\nWAa-5: IMAGE ANALYSIS AND PROCESSING\nWAa-5.1: MULTISCALE AM-FM IMAGE RECONSTRUCTIONS BASED ON 1985\nELASTIC NET REGRESSION AND GABOR FILTERBANKS\nIoannis Constantinou, University of Cyprus, Cyprus; Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico, \nUnited States Constantinos Pattichis, University of Cyprus, Cyprus\nWAa-5.2: COLORIZATION BASED ON PIECEWISE AUTOREGRESSIVE 1990\nMODEL\nYasuhiro Nakajima, Takashi Ueno, Taichi Yoshida, Masaaki Ikehara, Keio University, Japan\nWAa-5.3: IMAGE DENOISING BY ADAPTIVE DIRECTIONAL 1995\nLIFTING-BASED DISCRETE WAVELET TRANSFORM AND QUANTIZATION\nNaoki Furuhashi, Azusa Oota, Taichi Yoshida, Masaaki Ikehara, Keio University Japan\nxxxi\nWAa-5.4: INTRODUCING DIVERSITY TO NORMALIZED CROSS 2000\nCORRELATION FOR DENSE IMAGE REGISTRATION\nNafise Barzigar, Aminmohammad Roozgard, Pramode Verma, Samuel Cheng, University of Oklahoma nUnited States\nWAa-6: MULTI-SENSOR SIGNAL PROCESSING\nWAa-6.1: WHY DOES DIRECT-MUSIC ON SPARSE-ARRAYS WORK 2007\nP. P Vaidyanathan, Piya Pal, California 


Institute of Technology, United States\nWAa-6.2: ASYMPTOTICALLY OPTIMAL TRUNCATED HYPOTHESIS TEST 2012\nFOR A LARGE SENSOR NETWORK DESCRIBED BY A MULTIVARIATE GAUSSIAN \nDISTRIBUTION\nJiangfan Zhang, Rick Blum, Lehigh University, United States\nWAa-6.3: A JOINT LOCALIZATION AND SYNCHRONIZATION TECHNIQUE  ............................................2017\nUSING TIME OF ARRIVAL AT MULTIPLE ANTENNA RECEIVERS\nSiamak Yousefi, Xiao-Wen Chang, Benoit Champagne, McGill University Canada\nWAa-6.4: REDUCING THE FRACTIONAL RANK OF INTERFERENCE WITH 2022\nSPACE-TIME-FREQUENCY ADAPTIVE BEAMFORMING\nShawn Kraut, Adam R. Margetts, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Daniel Bliss, Arizona State \nUniversity, United States\nWAa-7: COMMUNICATION SYSTEM DESIGN\nWAa-7.1: IMPLEMENTATION OF SELECTIVE PACKET DESTRUCTION ON 2029\nWIRELESS OPEN-ACCESS RESEARCH PLATFORM\nStephen Hughes Bosheng Zhou, Roger Woods, Queen’s University Belfast, United Kingdom; Alan \nMarshall, Unievrsity of Liverpool, United Kingdom\nWAa-7.2: EFFICIENT ERROR-AWARE POWER MANAGEMENT FOR 2034\nMEMORY DOMINATED OFDM SYSTEMS\nMuhammad S Khairy, Ahmed M. Eltawil, Fadi J. Kurdahi, University of California, Irvine, United \nStates; Amin Khajeh Intel labs, United States\nWAa-7.3: FPGA IMPLEMENTATION OF A MESSAGE-PASSING OFDM 2041\nRECEIVER FOR IMPULSIVE NOISE CHANNELS\nKarl Nieman, University of Texas at Austin, United States; Marcel Nassar, Samsung Information \nSystems America United States; Jing Lin, Brian Evans, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWAa-7.4: MOBILE TRANSMITTER DIGITAL PREDISTORTION:  ...................................................................2046\nFEASIBILITY ANALYSIS, ALGORITHMS AND DESIGN EXPLORATION\nMahmoud Abdelaziz, Tampere University of Technology, Finland Amanullah Ghazi, University of \nOulu, Finland; Lauri Anttila, Tampere University of Technology, Finland; Jani Boutellier, University of \nOulu, Finland; Toni Lähteensuo, Tampere University of Technology, Finland; Xiaojia Lu, University of \nOulu, Finland; Joseph R. Cavallaro, Rice University, United States; Shuvra Bhattacharyya University \nof Maryland, United States; Markku Juntti, University of Oulu, Finland; Mikko Valkama, Tampere nUniversity of Technology, Finland\nWAb-1: MIMO PROCESSING\nWAb-1.1: MMSE RECEIVE FILTERING FOR PRECODED MIMO SYSTEMS .................................................2057\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-1.2: COVERAGE IN DENSE MILLIMETER WAVE CELLULAR  ............................................................2062\nNETWORKS\nTianyang Bai, Robert W. Heath, Jr., The University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWAb-1.3: LINEAR PRECODING FOR MIMO WITH LDPC CODING AND  .....................................................2067\nREDUCED RECEIVER COMPLEXITY\nThomas Ketseoglou, California State University, Pomona, United States; Ender Ayanoglu, University nof California, Irvine, United States\nxxxii\nWAb-1.4: OPTIMAL PILOT BEAM PATTERN DESIGN FOR MASSIVE MIMO 2072\nSYSTEMS\nSong Noh, Michael D. Zoltowski, Purdue University United States; Youngchul Sung, Korea Advanced \nInstitute of Science and Technology, Republic of Korea; David J. Love, Purdue University, United \nStates\nWAb-2: ADVANCES IN CODING AND DECODING\nWAb-2.1: EFFICIENTLY ENCODABLE NON-BINARY GENERALIZED LDPC  .............................................2079\nCODES\nNicholas Chang Applied Communication Sciences, United States; Marko Kocic, MIT Lincoln \nLaboratory, United States\nWAb-2.2 PRACTICAL NON-BINARY RATELESS CODES FOR WIRELESS 2084\nCHANNELS\nDavid Romero, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, United States; Nicholas Chang, Applied \nCommunication Sciences, United States; Adam R. Margetts Massachusetts Institute of Technology, \nUnited States\nWAb-2.3: ON THE OPTIMALITY OF POLAR CODES FOR THE 2089\nDETERMINISTIC WIRETAP CHANNE\nAli Fakoorian, A. Lee Swindlehurst, University of California, Irvine, United States\nWAb-2.4: DELAY-OPTIMAL STREAMING CODES UNDER 2094\nSOURCE-CHANNEL RATE MISMATCH\nPratik Patil, Ahmed Badr, Ashish Khisti, University of Toronto, Canada; Wai-Tian Tan Hewlett-\nPackard Labs, United States\nWAb-3: DETECTION\nWAb-3.1: ASYNCHRONOUS SIGNAL DETECTION IN 2103\nFREQUENCY-SELECTIVE NON-GAUSSIAN CHANNELS\nSaiDhiraj Amuru, Daniel Jakubisin, R. Michael Buehrer, Virginia Tech, United States Claudio da \nSilva, Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd., United States\nWAb-3.2: AN INFORMATION THEORETIC CHARACTERIZATION OF THE  ................................................2108\nCHANNEL SHORTENING RECEIVER\nFredrik Rusek, Ove Edfors, Lund University, Sweden\nWAb-3.3: ITERATIVE MMSE-SIC RECEIVER WITH LOW-COMPLEXITY  ...................................................2113\nSOFT SYMBOL AND RESIDUAL INTERFERENCE ESTIMATIONS\nGuosen Yue, Narayan Prasad, Sampath Rangarajan, NEC Laboratories America, Inc., United 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


