Knowledge Workers and the Realm of Social Tagging  Ralph Boeije Alares Ralph.Boeije@Alares.nl  Gwendolyn L. Kolfschoten Delft University of Technology g.l.kolfschoten@tudelft.nl  Pieter de Vries Delft University of Technology pieter.devries@tudelft.nl Wim Veen Delft University of Technology W.Veen@tudelft.nl   Abstract  Social tagging is a relati vely new type of social software that stores 
user-generated textual keywords to describe a resource or aspects of that resource In this paper we explore the mechanisms that social tagging can trigger to change the behavior of knowledge workers. We argue that social tagging has the potential to activate mechanisms of connection management and sociality in the context of knowledge work. To understand social tagging as a trigger for behavioral change, we explored the recent theoretical perspective of connectivism and connected knowledge. In connectivism connection maki ng and sociality are key elements of knowledge work Using this perspective we explore the realm of social tagging for knowledge 
workers  1. Introduction  Research strives to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of knowledge workers in various ways The use of Information Systems \(IS\for knowledge work has been successful in some cases, but has also led to disappointment  T o s u pport k n o w l edge  acquisition and knowledge sharing, most organizations established intranets, data warehouses, or other static repositories. These IS allow the storage and retrieval of codified information, such as presentations, best 
practices and reports Th es e sy s t e m s w e re m e a n t  to support knowledge acquisition and knowledge sharing, such that the organizational knowledge would be more efficiently Of ten t h es e s y s t e m s are  not aligned with the daily practice of knowledge work and as a result they are hardly us Mos t  importantly, the information stored in these systems lack the context of its origination and use. Mainly endproducts are stored without any linkage to related, up to date projects and people Knowledge acquisition and knowledge sharing are 
less supported by these types of systems order  to share knowledge, the explicit dimension of knowledge \(e.g. reports and presentations\as to be extended with the tacit dimension made of context and experience. Context determines the quality of the knowledge sharing, and in turn, the knowledge acquisition Kn o w ledg e i s th ere f ore shared best in a good conversation as it allows for rich embedded in w e v e r m o st k n o w l ed g e  workers have limited idea of what colleagues are working on or what they know about and only have 
limited time for conversations. This is caused by geographical distance, structural boundaries d a  knowledge hoarding culture [7  A r e so l u t i o n fo r t h i s  can be found in the use of social software  Social software is considered to overcome the disadvantages of the current IS systems for knowledge work and to support knowledge application  Social software is broadly defined as all software that aims to simplify the realization and preservation of 
networks among people 13 o cial s o f t w a re allo w s  users to interact digitally, to create content collaboratively, and to struct ure information together In the consumer market social software is found to support network formation and information exchange processes w h ic h can h e l p to act as a h u m a n f i l t er  to prevent information overload of other knowledge workers The goal of this paper is to assess the potential of a part of the social software suite, social tagging, to support knowledge work. We are not only concerned 
with the practical value of this tool, but focus mainly on the theoretical basis for this value. We specifically address the views of connectivism d s o ciali t y   e aim to ide n ti fy t h e  m e c h a n is m s b y  w h ich social tagging triggers knowledge workers to adapt their \(social\avior such that they more collaboratively and more efficiently apply organizational knowledge   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


2. Knowledge Management  Fahey and Prusak found that a working definition of knowledge is critical when thinking about the support for knowledge work [9 e ou r w o rki ng definition on the analysis of Knowledge Management KM\oaches and the views on knowledge that sustain them  2.1. Views on knowledge  In her longitudinal assessment of KM literature Jakub oun d th a t KM approach es are bas e d on specific views with regard to the nature and origin of knowledge. She identifies two views, the commodity and the community view. These views are directly related to notions of explicit and tacit knowledge in the work of Nonaka and Takeuchi [21  The commodity view on knowledge is a managerial approach to knowledge, where knowledge is understood as a static organizational resource, as a commodity  o labeled s o cial capital. T h e commodity view starts from the premise that knowledge is, or can be, made explicit by an individual. Knowledge \(explicit knowledge\s considered as an asset or a resource of a company which can be stored and shared holistically. This commodity view is used in most mainstream KM literature The community view starts from the premise that knowledge is embedded in social context [16, p  The community view of knowledge assumes that knowledge is shared and constructed within organizations through a continuous process of dialog and interactions, and that knowledge is imbued with routines, standards, and with day-to-day practices This view considers knowledge to have both a tacit and an explicit dimension, but asserts that this knowledge can only be created and shared through participation in a social process. In this view, the role of individual knowledge creation is only marginal The KM approaches that have surfaced in the last ten to fifteen years are based on either of these two views on knowledge. The commodity view is apparent in KM approaches that focus on establishing IS were knowledge can be stored. The community view led to social KM approaches, such as job-rotation, fostering communities of practice, and knowledge sharing meetings. Both the commodity and the community view can be valuable when their limitations are carefully considered. However, given the complex nature and origin of knowledge, the KM approaches should be combined, linked, and intertwined, such that a practice emerges that embraces this complexity. This would pave the way for KM approaches that value the complexity of knowledge and therefore deliver value to knowledge workers r e cen t  y ears  a n e w  v i e w  on knowledge emerged that could be positioned at the centre of the dimensions of the nature and the origin of knowledge; connectivism. Figure 1 represents the identified views on knowledge with connectivism as a uniting concept in the middle. Next we will describe the connectivism perspective in more detail    Figure 1 Views on knowledge   2.2. Connectivist view on knowledge  Connectivism as presented by Siemen   relates to social con s tr u c ti v i s m 43], bu t incorporates recent changes of the way people work with knowledge in his new concept on knowledge and learning. These changes concern changing communication patterns, increasingly distributed knowledge, and changes in the technology that supports knowledge work 42 L a s t l y it al s o  provides for a different way of understanding knowledge, knowledge sharing and learning Connectivism to 'know' is to be organized in a certain way, to have a certain regularly occurring pattern of neural activity - and consequently, a disposition to behave [8 This understanding of knowledge as a distributed resource is also held by Polanyi w h o  considers the process of knowing as connecting fragmentary clues from memory which are integrated under categories. Connectivism transposes this neurological understanding to the practice of knowledge work. It therefore holds that knowledge resides in networks of distributed knowledge sources such as people, the internet, and repositories. It assumes that knowing is making connections or the process of network development With regard to the tacit vs. explicit knowledge debate, connectivism holds that knowledge possesses different states along a continuum 29, p. 18  this, Siemens follows the original work of Polanyi who considers all knowledge to have a tacit dimension. This means that knowledge can be embodied and therefore Community Nature of knowledge Origin of knowledge Legend  Individual  Explicit  Tacit Tacit vs  vs  Community Connectivism Social  Social View on knowledge Commodity Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


made partly explicit as long as it remains connected to the context in which it was created. When knowledge gets disconnected from context it becomes less valuable With regard to the origin of knowledge connectivism holds that knowledge rests in an individual; it resides in the collective [29, p.14   Knowledge is perceived to originate in the interaction of people and information and therefore to be a social process. New knowledge is created when people create new connections and this is thus at the same time an individual process. Siemens [27, p n o w l edg e s this paradox by emphasizing co-creation. Co-creation is a process in which the individual and the social blend and where knowledge is created through establishing connections with both internal and external knowledge. Building on the work of others in a co-creation process brings the individual input into the social context KM approaches that build on this view should focus on assisting knowledge workers to connect to relevant knowledge sources. Siemens states that KM should support the knowledge flow. This means that KM focuses on informal learning, co-creation, and communication, because together these processes provide the basis that is required to apply knowledge effectively t ex t to be v i sible, t h e  connections between knowledge parts should be made visible in a network view. The process to manage this network should be supported at both the internal individual\d the external \(social\vel. The individual should be supported such that the connection making \(or structuring\ effort is first of all useful for the individual itself. At the external level, the network management of each individual should be exposed to the network, such that the structuring effort becomes valuable for the whole organization. Overall the most important task of such a KM approach is to provide a knowledge environment that supports knowledge workers to manage connections to knowledge objects and knowledge sources  2.3. Connected knowledge  Based on the analysis of different knowledge views, we formulate a working definition of knowledge, which we term connected knowledge. The focus on connections between knowledge objects and knowledge sources provides a new dimension to the KM practice. We build our definition of knowledge on the widely accepted definition of knowledge by Tsoukas and Vladimirou [35, p. 97 h o h o l d t h at  knowledge is the individual ability to draw distinctions within a collective domain of action, based on an appreciation of context or theory or both To this definition, we add the notion of connection making on the basis of our analysis of connectivism and emphasize the paradox of the nature of knowledge Moreover, we extend this definition with the understanding that knowledge is a process \(following  16 2 5 In th is proces s  conn ections are m a de  between knowledge parts which exist distributed across a network of knowledge sources [29  I n  following the definition of w e co n s ider con t e x t to  be very important. Context is required to assess the relevance of connections to information sources and thus to the formation of a knowledge network \(also supported by d 32  o l l o w i ng 25] w e  contend that knowledge is personal - having a tacit dimension -, but at the same time connected - and thus social. The personal nature of knowledge is strongly linked to the importance of context. Connected knowledge is multidimensional \(tacit and explicit, see  an d th eref ore ev e n th e m o s t e x plicit kn o w ledge  has a tacit dimension; the contextual understanding of the knowledge parts \(data, information and people\d knowledge sources. Through this analysis, we have come to understand knowledge as connected knowledge, which is The ability to draw distinctions, which are required for action, through a social process of contextually connecting distributed, multi-dimensional knowledge objects that are located throughout a network of knowledge sources Given this definition, knowledge is connected knowledge requiring IS for knowledge work that support the social process of connection management   3. Supporting Connectivism  Huizin s c u s s e s t h e rol e of su bj ect i v i s m i n  IS support for knowledge management. Subjectivism is built upon the notions of human sensemaking interpretation differences between people and the role of context as a lens through which experiences are perceived The domain of subjectivist, practice-based information management is sociality-centered-aroundinformational objects [14, p. 17 These informational objects can be stored in IS and in human beings Huizing argues the IS support for knowledge work should not reduce knowledge objects to themselves but should see them as contextualized tools for meaning, understanding and learning This understanding is well aligned with the view of connectivism and our working definition of knowledge. Supporting the emergence of sociality around informational objects is closely related to supporting the creation and management of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


connections to knowledge parts in a social process. The creation of connections is a core element of sociality because it supports the interaction that enables sociality to emerge. In conclusion, we argue that from this perspective, IS support for knowledge work has to provide for an environment in which sociality and connections can emerge and develop The work of Bouman et ilds on the  analysis of Huizing et al d th eir th eoretical  understanding of sociality is situated on the intersection of theories of social structure and situated experience and of theories of identity and social practice. As shown in figure 2, Bouman et al. explicitly value the duality and interaction of these theories. On the diagonal axis they therefore introduce realms in which design spaces are identified that consider the coexistence and interaction of the adjacent theories    Figure 2 The realm of sociality  The combination of all these perspectives on sociality is referred to as the realm of sociality. The dualities of theories create the following realms [3, pp 10-11   The realm of enabling practice: social software should fit a social practice that already exists or that could exist. LinkedIn.com for example enables the real world process of social networking and supports managing your network relations   The realm of adaptation: social software should fit the daily practice of users, very much as an ingredient of that practice. Digg.com for example resembles the concept of digging which is slang for appreciating something   The realm of building identity: social software should support users to build a \(digital\ocial identity, such that they have a presence in the social community. Del.icio.us for example shows an image of a user s mental framework by grouping the tags one uses in a tag cloud   The realm of actualizing self: social software should assist users in their self-actualization and self-reflection and it should challenge their creativity. Last FM for example provides the users with referrals to music one could be interested. It uses the music a user listens to find these referrals  These realms are design spaces and can therefore be used to assess the ability of software to trigger sociality. We argued that sociality is one of the core elements in knowledge and knowledge work. Social software that aims to support knowledge work therefore has to acknowledge these design criteria  4. Social Tagging  Social tagging is an element of Web2.0 or social software applications. Tagging has become a standard element of many blogs, wiki s and websites. Tags are created by both owners and users to categorize or describe these media. Increasingly, tags and tag clouds are used to browse these media [31 Tags are free formed and user-generated textual keywords, that describe a resource or certain aspects of that resource from the perspective of the individu Although exact applications differ, in general tags are added to resources once they are created or added to a repository. For example, when uploading photo s on Flickr, besides a title and a description, users can add tags to describe the photo. Other services, such as del.icio.us, diigio.com and watvindenwijover.nl provide more sophisticated tag input fields, such as auto-completion on the basis of previously used tags and showing other users tags for a resource Although the tagging process itself is rather simple and straightforward, it enables an extensive list of functions. The main reason for users to apply tags is that it helps them organize their resources for their own purpos How e v e r, tags can s e rv e s e v e ral oth e r  tasks and functions  4.1. Tagging functionalities  Tag clouds are groupings of the tags that are used to describe a set of resources \(figure 3\ag clouds help users to get a gist of what the set of resources is about, to see what other users currently find interesting, and to search and browse for resources  ov er, tag clo u ds c a n al s o dis p la y t h e ta gs used by a single user and therewith show his or her interests and occupancies Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 Figure 3 Tag cloud Tagging also assists users in determining and communicating about meaning [12  T h r o ugh a d d i n g  tags, users describe their perception of the meaning of the resource. In this description process, users are not bound by expert-defined taxonomies, but are free in their choice for tags. This introduces the \(collective subjective indexing of users. This influence of the subjective perspective of users means that tagging essentially is sense making  Golder and Huberman define sensemaking as the process in which information is categorized \(enacted\d labeled through which meaning emerges [12, p. 3  This definition combines the individual choice of users with the emergence of collective meaning. On the one hand the choice for tags is shaped by the individuals own experiences, daily practices, needs and concerns Because of this subjectivity in tagging, other users do not always directly comprehend the choice for specific tags On the other hand, [40 a r gue s t h a t  se n s e  ma ki ng i s  also influenced by social factors such as belonging and identity. The meaning that emerges through sense making therefore becomes a shared or collective meaning. This is also in line with the theory of social proof. On the basis of this theory es th at the  choice for tags is not only determined by an individuals subjective understanding of the world, but also by the labels and categories others use The individual subjectivity in social tagging also supports users in serendipitous discovery of interesting resources [38  T h is is o f te n r e f e rred to as th e lo n g tail  effect. Most of the tags a user chooses are obvious choices, which are also used by many other users However, some tags describe the meaning of a resource from a different perspective that only a few other users would also choose. Through the exposure of these tags, other users might discover relations and resources they would never discover otherwise  4.2. Drawbacks and benefits  The \(minimal\ effort of users to tag resources can create an easily browseable information structure However, the users select the tags on the basis of their own mental model. The differences in the mental models of users can cause the shared vocabulary of tags to have little consistency  Sev e ral  scholars have listed the causes of this inconsistency of emergent vocabularies and argued that these are serious drawbacks for social tagging. The five basic issues with an emergent vocabulary   Multilingualism: similar tags are not grouped when these tags are in a different language   Polysemy: some tags can be relevant for very distinct resources, which limits their coherence   Synonymy: similar resources tagged with synonymous resources are not grouped   Basic level variation: users choose tags at different levels of specificity, which makes tag clouds messy   Lack of hierarchy: there is no direct parent-child relation between tags, making it hardly possible to browse or suggest sema ntically related tags  Much of the ambiguity caused by the basic issues with regard to tagging could be resolved in a social tagging system by showing informational and social contex o n t ex t of an i t e m can be obs erv e d by  looking at all the tags that are used for this item, or at the other items that are tagged with the same tag. A personal tag cloud can provide the context of a user s choice for specific tags. Moreover, through the community influence in social tagging systems, a shared meaning for tags emerges, which overcomes most of the drawbacks of tagging Users tag other peoples documents and therewith they extend the descriptive vocabulary beyond that of the author [18, p 7 The only drawback that remains is the lack of semantic relations between the tags, which limits the potential of browsing through and finding related items, beyond those that are tagged with the same tag Concluding, social tagging creates an information structure which can help users to explore and discover knowledge objects. In the following section we extend this analysis by formulating social mechanisms that social tagging can trigger. We formulate these mechanisms on the basis of our theoretical analysis of knowledge and sociality  5. Social Mechanisms  Realist evaluation [22, 5 d e sc rib e s th e reg u l arit y o f  social processes by formulating social mechanisms In the social reality social mechanisms determine the propositions on the basis of which people execute choice and have capacity to take action [22, p. 68  this section we aim to formulate the mechanisms that might be triggered by social tagging and therewith change the regularity of knowledge work. Realist Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


evaluation aims to formulate a number of social mechanisms based on theory, but at the same time remains open to the discovery of new mechanisms in practical evaluation research. The list of mechanisms we formulate in this section is therefore not claimed to be exhaustive, nor are all mechanisms mutually exclusive The combination of the view of connectivism on the value of connections and the design framework for sociality guides us in defining the mechanisms that can be activated by social tagging. The mechanisms here are propositions on how social tagging can support knowledge workers to efficiently apply organizational knowledge.  We formulated these propositions based on the theoretical understanding discussed above, and on experiences and analysis with social tagging systems in practice The connectivist view on knowledge firstly emphasizes the value of contextual connections between knowledge objects and the serendipitous discovery of these connections. We therefore formulate the following two mechanisms   The seeing context mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to see the context of distributed knowledge objects and- sources   The serendipitous discovery mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to serendipitously discover new information and people Secondly connectivism regards the effort of knowledge sharing as an individual and a social benefit. We therefore formulate two mechanisms that describe these benefits   The using insights mechanisms Social tagging supports knowledge workers to use the insights of other users more easily   The easy sharing mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to easily share their insights about information and context  The sociality framework of Bouman defines spaces software designers should consider for their software to support sociality. We therefore used this framework to formulate and structure mechanisms that social tagging has to trigger to support sociality Such mechanisms would acknowledge human motivations, like eagerness for exploration, curiosity inquisitiveness, civilization, valuation of belonging achieving self-realization, enjoying one-self [3, p.1  In the process of formulating these mechanisms we consulted the creators of this framework and collaborated with them to define the mechanisms Enabling Practice   The expectation mechanism Knowledge workers will use social tagging merely because they feel obliged by the social structure of the organization, which nullifies the potential impact on social processes   The influence mechanism The social tagging user community will influence the knowledge workers choice for tags, which makes these tags understandable for all users and therewith improves the communication about meaning Mimicking Reality   The fit mechanism Social tagging is used because it fits the social processes in the daily work of knowledge workers, which strengthens the impact of social tagging on these social processes   The freedom mechanism Social tagging systems give knowledge workers a free hand in their choice for tags, which makes these tags less comprehensible for other users and therewith complicate the communication about meaning Building Identity   The show identity mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to show their identity which improves the social interaction among them   The association mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers in feeling associated with their colleagues that also use social tagging which improves social interaction among them Actualizing Self   The draw attention mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to draw more attention to themselves or their expertise, which increases the potential for social interaction   The reflection mechanism Social tagging supports knowledge workers to reflect on their identity, which helps them to elicit their identity and in turn impacts the mechanisms show identity  and draw attention   These mechanisms are considered in the Discussion section to assess whether social tagging through its design and functionalities could trigger these mechanisms, and link back to the connectivist perspective and the sociality perspective  6. Discussion  Given these mechanisms we will discuss in this section the potential of social tagging to support knowledge work. First, we analyze social tagging from the perspective of connectivism to determine the fit of this software with our perspective on knowledge and knowledge work. Secondly, we analyze the potential of social tagging to support the emergence of sociality around knowledge objects  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


6.1 Connectivist perspective  Connectivism holds that the knowledge required for knowledge work is embedded in a network of knowledge sources. This view on knowledge and knowledge work focuses on connection making and network management. Knowledge objects are argued to be connected when they have a shared property. By tagging, users add a property to these knowledge objects. When a user browses through tag clouds, the tagging system automatically connects knowledge objects with a shared tag. It is, of course, the user that has to connect the knowledge objects mentally and give meaning to the conne ctions in order to act However, the tagging system assists the user in making the connections more quickly by dynamically grouping knowledge with shared tags. The epistemological foundation of social tagging is therewith equal to that of connectivism Moreover, social tagging is also aligned to the connectivist view on knowledge. It regards the nature and origin of knowledge as paradoxes and dualities Connectivism posits that the nature of knowledge is to some extent explicit and to some extent tacit and holds that the origin of knowledge is both individual and social. Social tagging is mainly concerned with explicit knowledge, but adds the tacit dimension by means of context and connections to people. Social tagging allows users to expose their knowledge objects and connect these to other knowledge objects and other people, blending the individual effort with the social Besides this theoretical alignment with connectivism, we evaluate the practical alignment by reviewing the mechanisms we defined in section 5    The seeing context mechanism In social tagging systems, tag clouds group digital resources on the basis of a shared tag. This grouping therewith provides the context of a resource, since related information and people are shown in their relation This context can be extended by users, when they add notes to the combination of tag and resource Lastly, context can be provided by the tagging system by showing users next to a tag cloud that are expert on the topic of a tag cloud   The serendipitous discovery mechanism One of the main strengths of tagging is that tag clouds are well suited for browsing interlinked and related tags and finding unexpected valuable resources and people. This support for serendipity is enabled by the freedom of users to tag all resources in a shared repository, even if they did not create the resource themselves. It is strengthened by the freedom to choose tags freely to categorize the resources in this shared repository   The using insights mechanisms Social tagging systems structure the insights and knowledge objects of all users such that they can be easily retrieved and used. The grouping and sub-grouping in tag clouds allow users to quickly discover and find the resources they need for work   The easy sharing mechanism Sharing your resources, insights and perception of context is supported by social tagging. No difficult procedures, authorization and such are required. A user simply clicks a context-menu item, adds a description and some tags and the resource is directly available for all other users  In conclusion, from the perspective of connectivism, social tagging neatly fits both the theoretical and practical dimensions of knowledge and knowledge work. Based on this theoretical analysis, we argue that social tagging is a suitable element in the IS support for knowledge work. This hypotheses however, still has to be tested in real-world implementations to assess whether the perception of users actually supports these theoretical findings  6.2 Sociality perspective  When tagging is deployed in web applications it is often referred to as social tagging. The label social is merely chosen because social tagging is part of the socalled social software, but in this context the term stands for nothing more than distributed, asynchronous and collective knowledge. However, others m  that social tagging systems actually trigger users to associate with other users and foster their effort to form groups. More understanding is required to support this sociality claim The basic process of tagging does by no means fit the definition and explanation of sociality used in this research. However, as we stated before, the basic process of adding tags to digital resources enables extended functionality which might be able to trigger sociality. Tagging data can for example be used to group users on the basis of the tags they use. Users can subsequently exploit these groupings by connecting to the different people in the groups. We review the mechanisms we formulated in section 5 to assess what elements of social tagging potentially triggers sociality    The expectation mechanism When social tagging systems are only used because knowledge workers have to, the potential effect on the emergence of sociality can be drastically reduced This mechanism can be nullified by the support mechanism Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


  The influence mechanism Social tagging systems show the tags other users when a user adds a resource. Therewith they influence the user s choice of tags. When this mechanism is triggered users are influenced to establish a shared vocabulary, which supports their communication about meaning   The fit mechanism Social tagging systems allow users to structure their own digital resources in their own way. This mechanism may therewith reinforce other mechanisms, since it creates an extra incentive to use the system    The freedom mechanism In social tagging systems, users are free to choose tags as they like This freedom may disrupt communication about meaning, because the vocabulary is not shared This mechanism disrupts communication and therewith hampers association mechanisms    The show identity mechanism Most social tagging systems allow users to create a personal profile page that is publicly visible. Social tagging systems extend the user profile on the basis of the user s activities. Profiles allow users to express and build their identity. Profiles might therefore make users feel associated or even acquainted with one another, even without direct interaction    The association mechanism This mechanism is the core of sociality. It can be triggered by showing similarity between users, \(automatically\ create groups, and by allowing users to follow other users tagging behavior. On the basis of the tagging browsing and commenting behavior of users, a similarity index can be constructed. The similarity index can be used to show a user other users that are related. This similarity might improve the feeling of association and induce users to connect to and communicate with other users. Groups can be provided a platform to interact on the topic by which they are grouped. Grouping people and enabling them to interact in a dedicated space might improve the sense of belonging between the users and foster social interaction. In some social tagging systems users can subscribe to the tags that another user applies. This following and being followed might create a sense of belonging and association among the users    The draw attention mechanism In social tagging systems, users have several ways to draw attention. First of all, their tagging behavior determines their expertise profile and this can draw the attention of other users. Secondly, users can actively react to other users tags, resources and notes. Lastly, most social tagging systems calculate the level of activity of users and rank the top five of active users which gives these users exposure and draws attention to their profiles    The reflection mechanism Social tagging systems can display individual tag clouds that show the occupation of a user. Moreover, it can track the tagging behavior over time and therewith allow users to reflect on their own and on other users  development. This might also be triggered by profiles, when a user is now and then asked to update his/her profile. This mechanism can trigger self-realization and actualization   In conclusion, several elements of social tagging can trigger the mechanism we formulated. Therewith social tagging theoretically has the potential to trigger the emergence of sociality among its users. As with the hypothesis of the support for connection management this hypothesis of emerging sociality still has to be verified through case study research  7. Conclusions and further research  In this paper, we described our research that explores the potential of social tagging to support efficient knowledge application in the context of knowledge work. Our goal was to identify how social tagging could trigger mechanisms that support knowledge workers to efficiently and collaboratively apply organizational knowledge. As is clear from the analysis in the preceding section, social tagging might trigger mechanisms of connection making and sociality. In our theoretical view on knowledge, both connection making and sociality are key elements of knowledge work. Therewith, we argue that social tagging is a suitable element of the IS support for knowledge work and can support knowledge workers to more efficiently and more collaboratively apply the organizational knowledge The limitation of this research is that it only concerns a theoretical assessment. We did not yet research practical implementations to realistically evaluate the formulated mechanisms, both in a quantitative and a qualitative fashion. Another limitation is that only a single perspective connectivism is explored in relation to social tagging Other theoretical foundations could lead to different insights on the mechanisms involved in social tagging Further research is required to study the practical implementations of social tagging to gain understanding about the mechanisms for connection making and the triggering of sociality. Such evaluation will not only focus on the final outcomes of social tagging activities, but especially on further understanding and confirmation of the mechanisms Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


discussed. Such research will be conducted both in a qualitative and in a complementary qualitative manner to confirm and understand the hypotheses with respect to the mechanisms of sociality and connection making Finally further research is required to understand the role of social tagging as a mediator to go from knowledge sharing and access to knowledge activation  References  1  Ardichvilli, A., Page, V., and Wentling, T. \(2003 Motivation and barriers to participation in virtual knowledgesharing communities of practice. Journal of Knowledge Management. Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 64 - 77 2  Bertrams, J. \(1999\ The knowledge-sharing organization In Dutch: de kennisdelende organisatie\hiedam Scriptum 3 Bo um a n W H oog e nbo om T J a ns e n R., Sc h o o n d o rp  M., Bruin, B. de, and Huizing, A. \(2007\he Realm of Sociality: Notes on the Design of Social Software PrimaVera Working Paper 2008-01 4 B r ow n, J  S. a nd D u g u id P. \(19 91 now le dg e a nd organisation: a social-practice perspective. Organisation Science. Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 198-213 5  Carlsson, S. \(2003\ Advancing information systems evaluation \(research\ critical realist approach. Electronic Journal of Information Systems Evaluation. Vol. 6, No. 2, pp 11-20  Ch att i  Klamm a Jark e Na eve 2 0 0 7  T h e W e b 2  0 Driven SECI Model Based Learning Process. ICALT Seventh IEEE International Conference on Advanced Learning Technologies, pp. 780-782 7  Disterer, G. \(2001\idual and Social Barriers to Knowledge Transfer. 34th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. 7 pp 8 D o w n e s S. \(200 7 n intro duc ti on t o c o n n e c tiv e knowledge. In: Hug, T. \(ed.\dia, Knowledge Education - Exploring new Spaces, Relations and Dynamics in Digital Media Ecologies. Proceedings of the International Conference held on June 25-26, 2007. Innsbruck: Innsbruck University Press 9  Fahey, L. and Prusak, L. \(1998\ The eleven deadliest sins of knowledge management. California Management Review Vol. 40, No. 3, pp. 265-276 10 Fa rre ll S. a n d L a u, T  200 6 e Co nta c t s   P e ople Tagging for the Enterprise. Proceedings of the 20th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology pp. 91 100 1 G azzan iga M  S  ed  2 00 4  T h e Co gn it ive Neurosciences III. Cambridge: MIT Press 12 G o lde r S. A  a nd H u be r m a n B  A   2006 U s a g e  Patterns of Collaborative Tagging Systems. Journal of Information Science. Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 198-208 13  Gorissen, P. \(2006\ial software in het onderwijs Retrieved on 21 November 2007 from http://www.gorissen.info/Pierre/files/socialsoftwarev2p0.pdf 1 H u i z i n g A   2 00 7b  Th e val u e o f a r o se r i sin g ab o v e objectivism and subjectivism. Primavera working paper 2007-19. Retrieved on 9 November 2007 from http://primavera.feb.uva.nl/index.php?option=com_content&t ask=view&id=9&Itemid=23 15 H w a n g  S. \(2007 T r ia di c  A pproa c h of H i e r a r c h ic a l  Classes Analysis on Folksonomy Mining. International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, Vol. 7 No.8, pp. 193-198 16  Jakubic, M. \(2007\ploring the knowledge landscape four emerging views of knowledge. Journal of knowledge management. Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 6-19 17  Jansen, R.M. \(2007\ The human touch in knowledge management \(In Dutch: De menselijke maat in kennismanagement\ijdschrift voor Informatie en Management \(TIEM\etrieved on 15 November 2007 from winkwaves.com/files/De_menselijke_maat_in_kennismanage ment_Winkwaves _TIEM.pdf 18 Ma t h e s A  2004 Fo lk s onom ie s c oope ra tiv e classification and communication through shared metadata Retrieved on 20 September 2007 from http://www.adammathes.com/academic/computer-mediatedcommunication/folksonomies.html 19  McAfee, A.P. \(2006\nterprise 2.0: the dawn of emergent collaboration. MIT Sloan Management Review Spring 2006, Vol. 47, No. 3, pp. 21-28 20  Mohamed, M., Stankosy, M. and Murray, A. \(2006 Knowledge management and information technology: can they work in perfect harmony? Journal of Knowledge Management. Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 103-116 21 N ona k a I  a nd T a ke uc hi, H   199 5 T h e K now le dge Creating Company, How Japanese Companies Create the Dynamics of Innovation, Oxford: Oxford University Press 22  P a w s on, R. a n d T ille y  N 199 7 a listic Ev a l ua tio n  London: Sage Publications 23  Pfeffer, J. and Sutton, I. \(2000\he knowing-doing gap how smart companies turn knowledge into action. Boston MA: Harvard Business School Press 24  Pola ny i, M 1 9 66 h e T a c it Dim e nsion. G a rde n City   Doubleday Publishers 25 Pola ny i M 1 97 5 e rs ona l K now le dg e   In: Pola ny i M  and Prosch, H. \(Eds.\ Meaning. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, pp. 22-45 26 Q u re shi a n d Ke e n 2 00 5 c tiv a ting Know le dg e  Through Electronic Collaboration: Vanquishing the Knowledge Paradox. IEEE Transactions on professional communication. Vol. 48, No. 1, pp. 40-54 27 Riv a de ne ira  A  W G r ue n, D., Mul l e r M., a nd Mille n  D \(2007\etting Our Head in the Clouds: Toward Evaluation Studies of Tag clouds CHI 2007 Proceedings, pp 995-998 28  Siemens, G. \(2004\Connectivism: A Learning Theory for the Digital age. \(Retrieved on the 21 August 2007 from http://www.elearnspace.org:Articles:connectivism.htm 29 Sie m e n s   G  2005 o n n e c tiv ism   A  L e a r ning T h e o r y  for the Digital Age. International Journal of Instructional Technology and Distance Learning, Vol. 2, No. 1 30  Sie m e n s   G  200 6 now in g K now le dg e  L u lu.c om  31 Sif r y  D  2007 t e of t h e liv e  w e b re port. Sif r y s Alerts: http://www.sifry.com/alerts/archives/000493.html 32  Snowden, D.J. \(2002\omplex Acts of Knowing Paradox and Descriptive Self Awareness. Journal of Knowledge Management. Special Issue, July 2002 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


33  Snowden, D.J. \(2005\ust in Time KM: conceptual roots and pragmatic interventions. Retrieved November 11 2007 from http://www.cognitive-edge.com/articledetails.php articleid=38. First published 2002 34  Spyns, P., Moor, A. de, Vandenbussche, J., and Meersman, R. \(2006\From Folksologies to On-tologies How the Twain Meet. Proceed ings of OTM 2006, pp. 738 755 35  Tepper, M. \(2003\ The rise of social software netWorker Magazine, Vol 7, No. 3, pp. 18-23 36 T s ouk a s H  a nd V l a d i m irou, E \(20 01 h a t is  organizational knowledge? Journal of Management Studies Vol. 38, No. 7, pp. 973-993 37  Tuten, P.M. \(2003\ Constructivist Perspective on Knowledge Management. IEEE Professional Communication Conference, IPCC 2003, pp. 170-174 38 Va nde r W a l T   2005 Ex pl a i ning a nd Sh ow ing B r o a d  and Narrow Folksonomies. Personal Infocloud blog http://personalinfocloud.com/2005/02/explaining_and_.html 39  Vos s  J   2 0 07 T a g g i ng Folk s onom y C o  Renaissance of Manual Indexing? Proceedings of the International Symposium of Information Science, pp. 234 254 40 W e ic k  K S u tc lif f e K a n d O b s t f e ld, D   2 0 05  Organizing and the Process of Sensemaking. Organizational Science, Vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 409 421 41 G oody e a r P B a nk s  S. H odg s on V Mc C onne ll, D   2004\ Advances in Research on Networked Learning. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers 42 J o ne s  C 2 0 08 N e tw ork e d L e a r ning  a social practice perspective. In: Proceedings of the sixth International Conference on Networked Learning. P. 616 -623 43 W e r t s c h, J  V 1 99 7  Vy g o ts ky a nd the f o r m a tion of the  mind. Cambridge  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Figure 9 also highlights the difficulty in designing a dynamic algorithm that is stable for most network configurations For data point 5 and 9 jitter is difficult to predict based on the AR PRESET This variability is most likely a result of the tolerance mechanism presenting artifacts during certain network configurations If the algorithm chooses too aggressively for too many data flows the contention parameters are set more aggressively and performance in the network suffers Although jitter remains better than NoDiff for all data points in Figure 9 providing more consistent behavior should be a primary goal for future versions of the AA SD Video Jitter 0.07 0.06 0.05  0.04  0.03 0.02 0.01 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Number of VCT and TS Nodes Figure 10 SD Video Jitter The average jitter for SD video is shown in Figure 10 This data represents a lower priority level and as compared to voice jitter in Figure 9 is able to provide better predictability The data still shows that performance for AA experiences greater variability than Normal but over most data points is better than both NoDiff and Normal HD video performance is similar to SD but has greater overall jitter and is therefore not shown Telemetry Jitter o 045 o 04 4 NoDiff Normal 0 035 AA 0 03 025 0  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Number of VCT Nodes 11 0.015 0.01 0.0050 Figure 11 Telemetry Jitter In Figure 11 which shows the jitter for Telemetry the data exhibits similar characteristics as the data for voice jitter Due to inconsistencies in the settling of the algorithm performance does not follow the same curve as NoDiff or Normal however for most data points the performance is better than NoDiff Figure 12 Command Round Trip Time The RTT for Command data is shown in Figure 12 Similar conclusions can be drawn from this data as have been discussed previously This data also exhibits greater variability than Normal and better overall performance than NoDiff The behavior of AA closely resembles that of AA in Figure 11 which reinforces the conclusion that the builtin hysteresis of the algorithm does not fully accommodate all network configurations Overall the Adaptive Algorithm is able to meet its goals of being a distributed way to dynamically manage priority and still perform similarly to static prioritization and better than no differentiation at all The self correcting characteristic of the algorithm leads to increased variability in performance which in some cases such as extreme network load causes the Adaptive Algorithm to perform significantly worse than static prioritization On the other hand network throughput is improved when the network is under-utilized because the Adaptive Algorithm is only engaged when performance requirements are not being met When viewed as a trade-off between simplicity of deployment and performance benefits over non-prioritized networks the Adaptive Algorithm can provide significant value to network architects and TS 


9 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We have presented an extension to 802.1l e that dynamically adapts the contention parameters to meet performance requirements of lunar communications We have explored the capacity of 802.1lg using dynamic 802.1le to handle VoIP command telemetry and video according to their respective QoS requirements The data presented here shows that the Adaptive Algorithm can be deployed in these scenarios to effectively manage priority without a complicated centralized infrastructure This capability will be essential for short-range lunar communications in that quick deployment will be a primary goal The prevalence of 802.11 hardware and the possibility of the 2.4GHz band to perform at long and short ranges make it a viable option for future lunar networks However priority will be a necessity especially if the network carries non-critical traffic alongside mission-critical VoIP and data Future work on the algorithm will include improvement to the tolerance mechanism to reduce added contention from over-adjustment It is possible that more testing with more conservative settings will result in less variable network conditions at the expense of faster convergence Although we feel that the algorithm presented here is important we believe it is not the total solution It has been shown in previous works that in general 802.1 le increases contention in the network which results in overall lower throughput The Adaptive Algorithm does alleviate this disadvantage for some scenarios but not all Other works show that 802.1 le under the HCCA can solve the problem of throughput at the expense of simplicity and rapid deployment Therefore we expect that many 802.11 e deployments will use a mix of pure EDCA and HCCA in addition to using EDCA as a backup measure for HCCA Having an efficient and simple way to use ECDA will provide network architects with greater flexibility and will further reduce dependence on proprietary network design as we move towards expansion beyond the Earth 10 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at Clemson University under the South Carolina Space Grant Consortium Research and Education Awards Program REAP and at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 1 ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1 lb 1999 Edition IEEE Standard for Information technologyTelecommunications and Information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks Specific requirements Part 11 IEEE 1999 2 ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1 le 1999 Edition IEEE Standard for Information technologyTelecommunications and Information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks Specific requirements Part 11 Amendment 8 IEEE 1999 3 Wi-Fi CERTIFIED for WMM Support for Multimedia Applications with Quality of Service in Wi-Fi Networks Wi-Fi Alliance September 1 2004 4 Swaminathan Arvind and James Martin 2006 Fairness Issues in Hybrid 802.1 lb/e Networks Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2006 3rd IEEE Vol 1 Issue 8-10 50-54 5 Wietholter Sven and Hoene Christian 2003 Design and Verification of an IEEE 802.1 le EDCA Simulation Model in ns-2.26 TKN Technical Report Series Technical University Berlin November 2003 6 Cali F M Conti E Gregori 2000 Dynamic Tuning of the IEEE 802.11 Protocol to Achieve a Theoretical Throughput Limit IEEE/ACM Transactions On Networking Vol 8 No 6 December 2000 785-799 7 Cali F M Conti E Gregori 2000 IEEE 802.11 Protocol Design and Performance Evaluation of an Adaptive Backoff Mechanism IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications Vol 18 No 9 September 8 Chen D S Garg M Kappes K Trivedi 2002 Supporting VBR VoIP Traffic in IEEE 802.11 WLAN in PCF Mode Center for Advanced Computing and Communications ECE Department Duke University Durham NC Avaya Labs Research New Jersey 9 Siris Vasilios and Stamatakis George 2006 Optimal CWmin Selection for Achieving Proportional Fairness in Multi-Rate 802.1 le WLANs Test-bed Implementation and Evaluation International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking WiNTECH 06 10 He Dajiang and Charles Shen 2003 Simulation Study of IEEE 802.1l e EDCA Vehicular Technology Conference Spring 2003 Vol 1 685-689 12 ILREFERENCES 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


14 is particularly challenging It is noteworthy that these translations may well be haptic and audible as well as visual A final building block for the disseminated user interface is the development of advanced packaging techniques for assembly of the HSI components into sufficiently small packages that may be unobtrusively introduced into crew quarters and crew clothing so that their use requires little or no special setup before operation Power sources and lightweight batteries would be needed as well compatible with the spacecraft environment Changing your shirt may also change your batteries for the wearable sensors Intelligent agents are a focus for many of the activities of the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Several demonstrations of early prototypes have been performed so this area is considered one for development rather than just research 7. C ONCLUSIONS Inflatable spacecraft represent a revolutionary way of creating viable living and operations volume for humans engaged in exploration missions providing increased usable volume with reduced launch mass and volume They can potentially increase resistance to micrometeorite and space radiation hazards over conventional aluminum structures while being more flexible for reconfiguration from transit to habitat modes Challenges maintaining avionics operation during dynamic changes from stowed to deployed state during inflation providing feedthroughs between the inner and outer surface of the pressure vessel and for monitoring the health of the inflatable fabric itself can be met by applying innovations in the areas of avionics architecture intelligent sensors, human-system interfaces and spacecraft information interaction, currently in the research and development phase These innovations leverage the capabilities of each other to provide new concepts for the operation of long duration human spacecraft MAA is based on a massively redundant peer-to-peer construct providing much higher fault tolerance and higher computational performance Intelligent sensors have the potential for dramatically reducing sensor failures and inaccuracies again by employing many redundant elements with internal cross-checking of function and accuracy MAA directly supports roaming mobile HSI and its excess computational power can be used for hosting intelligent agent technology for information management and access The use of wireless networks and wireless power distribution directly supports inflatable spacecraft by eliminating inflexible cables and feedthroughs across the pressure vessel An innovative operations concept for transit vehicle piloting operation and maintenance was outlined incorporating these technologies providing virtual cockpits for vehicle operation, augmented reality for complex support activities and unobtrusive interfaces for common activities Design guidelines for constructing such HSI systems were presented consistent with current human factors practice The use of intelligent agents nicely complements advanced HSI allowing natural interaction between crew and spacecraft systems and payloads, effectively increasing crew size Technology for implementing proof-of-concept prototypes already exists Significant improvement in performance power consumption size mass and cost are required for all elements but are anticipated to be achieved using modern semiconductor advances Packaging and hardening for the space environment will remain serious challenges Critical advances in software architecture and algorithms will be needed to integrate these widely dispersed assets into a coherent system capable of maintain function despite failures and changing mission conditions In many ways the system architecture described is a good host for developing and testing many advanced software concepts Agent-based design in general may help coordinate many of the loosely-coupled modules and functions identified Successful implementation of this architecture and complementary features can lead to more robust inflatable spacecraft, increasing the performance and capabilities of the spacecraft and its crew during the conduct of exploration missions to the moon and Mars 


15 R EFERENCES  1  h t t p    w w w  b i g e l o w a e r o s p a c e  c o m  o u t _ t h e r e   2  h t t p    s p a c e f l i g h t  n a s a  g o v  h i s t o r y  s t a t i o n  t r a n s h a b  3  322 A v i o n i c s  A p p l i c a t i o n  S o f t w a r e  S t a n d a r d  I n t e r f a c e 323  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d   2 0 0 6  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d  4  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  1 1 9 9 9  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320  N e t w o r k C a p a b l e  A p p l i c a t i o n  P r o c e s s o r  I n f o r m a t i o n  M o d e l  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 7 6 7   A p r i l  1 8   2 0 0 0   5  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  2 1 9 9 7  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320 T r a n s d u c e r  t o  M i c r o p r o c e s s o r  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  P r o t o c o l s a n d  T r a n s d u c e r  E l e c t r o n i c  D a t a  S h e e t   T E D S   f o r m a t s  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 5 6 6   S e p t e m b e r  2 5   1 9 9 8   6  F e r n a n d o  F i g u e r o a   R a n d y  H o l l a n d   J o h n  S c h m a l z e l   D a n D u n c a v a g e   R i c k  A l e n a   A l a n  C r o c k e r   322 I S H M I m p l e m e n t a t i o n  f o r  C o n s t e l l a t i o n  S y s t e m s  323  A I A A  2 0 0 6 4 4 1 0   4 2 n d  A I A A  A S M E  S A E  A S E E  J o i n t  P r o p u l s i o n C o n f e r e n c e    E x h i b i t   J u l y  9 1 2   2 0 0 6   S a c r a m e n t o C o n v e n t i o n  C e n t e r   S a c r a m e n t o   C A   7  H i e r o n y m u s   J   a n d  D o w d i n g   J     C l a r i s s a  S p o k e n D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m    A C T A  A s t r o n a u t i c a   2 0 0 6   8  F i s h e r   S   S    M c G r e e v y   M    H u m p h r i e s   J     R o b i n e t t  W    1 9 8 6    V i r t u a l  E n v i r o n m e n t  D i s p l a y  S y s t e m   A C M 1 9 8 6  W o r k s h o p  o n  3 D  I n t e r a c t i v e  G r a p h i c s   C h a p e l  H i l l  N o r t h  C a r o l i n a    2 3 2 4  O c t o b e r  1 9 8 6   A C M   p p   7 7 8 7   9  B r o o k s   F   B   J r    1 9 9 9   W h a t 325 s  r e a l  a b o u t  v i r t u a l  r e a l i t y  I E E E   C o m p u t e r  G r a p h i c s  a n d  A p p l i c a t i o n s   1 9    1 6 2 7   1 0  N o r m a n   D o n a l d  A    2 0 0 7   T h e  d e s i g n  o f  f u t u r e  t h i n g s  B a s i c  B o o k s   N e w  Y o r k   1 1  C l a n c e y   W  J   S i e r h u i s   M    A l e n a   R    C r a w f o r d   S   D o w d i n g    J    G r a h a m   J    K a s k i r i s   C    T y r e e   K   S    a n d v a n H o o f   R    2 0 0 4   M o b i l e  A g e n t s   A  d i s t r i b u t e d  v o i c e c o m m a n d e d  s e n s o r y  a n d  r o b o t i c  s y s t e m  f o r s u r f a c e  E V A  a s s i s t a n c e   I n  R   B   M a l l a  a n d  A   M a j i  e d s    E n g i n e e r i n g   C o n s t r u c t i o n    a n d  O p e r a t i o n s  i n C h a l l e n g i n g  E n v i r o n m e n t s   E a r t h  a n d  S p a c e  2 0 0 4   H o u s t o n   A S C E   p p   8 5 9 2  1 2  A l e n a  R    O s s e n f o r t  J    L e e  C    W a l k e r  E    S t o n e  T   322 D e s i g n  o f  H y b r i d  M o b i l e  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  N e t w o r k s  f o r P l a n e t a r y  E x p l o r a t i o n 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 4  B i g  S k y   M T   1 3  R i c h a r d  L   A l e n a   J o h n  P   O s s e n f o r t  I V   K e n n e t h  I  L a w s   A n d r e  G o f o r t h  322 C o m m u n i c a t i o n s  f o r  I n t e g r a t e d M o d u l a r  A v i o n i c s 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 7  B i g  S k y  M T   1 4  322 A i r c r a f t  D a t a  N e t w o r k  323  A R I N C  6 6 4  S t a n d a r d D o c u m e n t   2 0 0 2  B IOGRAPHY Richard L Alena is a Computer Engineer in the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Mr Alena is currently working on the Mission Operations System for the LCROSS Lunar mission and on avionics architecture for a lander vehicle for human lunar missions He was the co-lead for the Advanced Diagnostic Systems for International Space Station ISS Project developing model-based diagnostic tools for space operations. He was the chief architect of a flight experiment conducted aboard Shuttle and Mir using laptop computers personal digital assistants and servers in a wireless network for the ISS He was also the technical lead for the Databus Analysis Tool for International Space Station on-orbit diagnosis He was group lead for Intelligent Mobile Technologies developing planetary exploration systems for field simulations Mr Alena holds an M.S in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California Berkeley He is the winner of the NASA Silver Snoopy Award in 2002 a NASA Group Achievement Award in 1998 for his work on the ISS Phase 1 Program Team and a Space Flight Awareness Award in 1997 Stephen R Ellis  headed the Advanced Displays and Spatial perception Laboratory at the NASA Ames Research Center between September 1989 and March 2006 and is currently a member of this group He received a Ph.D 1974 from McGill University in Psychology after receiving a A.B in Behavioral Science from U.C Berkeley He has had postdoctoral fellowships in Physiological Optics at Brown University and at U.C Berkeley  He has published on the topic of presentation and user interaction with spatial information in 170 journal publications and formal reports and has been in the forefront of the introduction of perspective and 3D displays into aerospace user interfaces In particular he has worked recently on kinesthetic techniques to improve cursor and manipulator control under difficult display control coordinate mappings He has served on the editorial boards of Presence  and Human Factors  and 


16 has edited a book Pictorial communication in virtual and real environments concerning the geometric and dynamics aspects of human interface to systems using spatial data.\(Taylor and Francis London 2nd Ed  1993 He was awarded a University Medal from Kyushu Sangyo University in Japan in 1992 Dougal Maclise  is currently the group lead for the ISHM Technology Maturation Group within the Intelligent Systems Division at Ames Research Center He has a Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Masters degree in BioMedical Engineering Over the fifteen years that he has worked at NASA he has managed a wide variety of projects such as animal physiology experiment payloads for the Shuttle the consolidation of seven resource tracking databases a real-time imaging payload for the SolarPowered Pathfinder UAV and the development of the Advanced Diagnostics and Prognostics Testbed For the last five years he has focused on the systems engineering and application aspects of Integrated Systems Health Management while working on the Second Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle Orbital Space Plane and Next Generation Launch Technology projects.  He is currently the Information Systems lead for the Lunar Lander Project J a m e s  H i e r o n y m u s  i s U S R A  S e n i o r  S c i e n t i s t  i n t h e  C o l l a b o r a t i v e  a n d A s s i s t i v e  S y s t e m s   C A S  T e c h n i c a l  A r e a  w i t h i n  t h e I n t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s  D i v i s i o n a t  N A S A  A m e s    He was technical lead for the NASA team which developed the Clarissa spoken dialogue system that talks astronauts through executing complex procedures which has been installed for testing on the International Space Station  He worked with John Dowding on the EVITA EVA Intelligent Talking Assistants spoken dialogue system for lunar space suits The EVITA system forms a front end for the Mobile Agents system which keeps track of all of the assets on a lunar exploration mission assists in scheduling navigation sample gathering and commands robots H i s  P h D  i s  f r o m C o r n e l l  U n i v e r s i t y   m a s t e r s  d e g r e e  f r o m  U  C a l  S a n  D i e g o  a n d  B  S   f r o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f  M i c h i g a n    H e  w a s  a  P o s t D o c  a t  t h e  S t a n f o r d  A I  L a b  w o r k i n g  o n  a u t o m a t i c  s p e e c h r e c o g n i t i o n    H e  h e l p e d  s t a r t  t h e  s p e e c h  l a b o r a t o r y  a t  N I S T  w a s  a  l i n g u i s t i c s  p r o f e s s o r  a t  U   o f  E d i n b u r g h  i n  t h e  C e n t r e f o r  S p e e c h  T e c h n o l o g y  R e s e a r c h   a  M e m b e r  o f  T e c h n i c a l  S t a f f i n  t h e  L i n g u i s t i c s  a n d  S p o k e n  D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m s  D e p a r t m e n t s a t  B e l l  L a b s   M u r r a y  H i l l   a n d  a Visiting Professor at the University of Gothenburg He joined NASA Ames in late 2000 


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


