Aligning CIO Characteristics to Business Strategy: An Empirical Investigation  Yan Li Department of Information Systems and Decision Science ESSEC Business School, France 33 1 34 43 39 82 liyan@essec.fr  Chuan Hoo Tan Department of Information Systems City University of Hong Kong 825 2788 9720 ch.tan@cityu.edu.hk   Abstract  This paper examines the match between Chief Information Officer \(CIO\acteristics and the 
organizationês business strategy and how this match will influence the impact of IS on the organizationês business performance. Based on the study of typologies of business strategy, alignment between IS and business strategy and upper echelon theory, a conceptual model is proposed. Survey data from 81 CIOs/IS managers is collected to empirically test the model. The results indicat e that a match between business strategy and CIOs of certain repertoires of competencies, experiences and personalities could lead to better organizational performance Specifically, the impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly 
better than it is in misaligned ones     1. Introduction Consider this question: If you are hiring a Chief Information Officer \(CIO\or the organization, who do you look for? This research seeks to answer this question In a diverse, ever-changing marketplace organizations are constantly seeking to harness technology to improve their core competency and gain competitive advantage. Explicitly, knowing how to apply Information Systems \(IS\ an appropriate and timely way and in harmony with business 
strategies, goals, and needs could bring the organization to steps closer to business succes  other words, aligning IS strategy to business strategy becomes a critical issue in most organizations Indeed, there is an increasing amount of research and understanding on the linkages between business and IS strategies e role  of partn e rs h i ps bet w ee n IS and business manageme d th e n eed to understand the transformation of business strategies resulting from the competitive use of The person in an organization who knows 
technology and business sufficiently well is the CIO CIOs wield the greatest organizational power to influence the exploitation of IS in their organizations since they have the best knowledge of the technology progression and characteristics. Furthermore, they are the key strategic decision makers who plan and direct the organization s IS strategy and its implementation 7 In our knowledge, prior researchers \(e.g., Thomas and Ramaswamy  d to f o cu s on t h e m a tc h between organization s top managers \(e.g., Chief 
Executive Officer \(CEO\and the organization s business strategy and indicate a fit or match  between these two will yield better organizational performance. However, given the increasingly important role played by the CIO in shaping organization s IS strategy d th e n e ed to alig n IS  with business strategy, there is little research done about how CIO will match the organization s business strategy and whether this match will influence the impact of IS on the organization 
s business performance. This study strives to fill this gap in the extant literature. Specifically, we seek to answer: what type of CIO characteristics will be best aligned with an organization s business strategy Drawing on the study of alignment between IS and business strategy pper ech elon th eor y   e propos e a con ceptu a l  m odel to ex a m i n e t h e alignment between CIO characteristics and the organization s business strategy and to measure whether this alignment will influence the impact of 
IS on the organization s business performance. This model is empirically tested with survey data from 81 CIOs/IS managers. The results indicate that different business strategies will match with CIOs with different repertoires of competencies, experiences and personalities. The impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly better than it is in misaligned ones  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


2. Conceptual Model and Hypotheses Notwithstanding the growing research in strategic leadersh th e cau sal relation s h i p bet w ee n managers and strategy is still a source of considerable debate. Particularly, whether managers determine strategies or whether established strategic position impacts the recruitment and promotion decisions of upper echelon executives is often a question pondering researchers till now e  absence of consensus on the causal forces, it is clear that the match, fit or alignment between managers and strategic direction is crucial to success Figure 1 depicts the conceptual model that examines the fit between CIO characteristics and business strategies and the effects of this fit on the impact of IS on the organization s business performance. In the following sub sections, the alignment between business and IS strategy will be discussed first followed by the reasoning for matching CIO characteristics to business strategy  Figure 1. Conceptual Model  2.1. Business Strategy and Its Alignment with IT/IS Strategy In the realm of strategic management theory, the central role of managerial influence is best reflected in typologies of strategic orientation e of  th e  most well-established business strategy typologies is Miles and Snow  ree v i able strate g i c t y pe s  which include Prospector, Defender and Analyzer Based on the summary of Sabherwal and Chan there are good reasons to believe that different IS strategies would be appropriate for the three business strategies T h es e th re e s t rateg ie s diff er in information management sophistication [14 in th e  level of IT investme n d in t h eir i n f l u e n ce on the attributes of formal control system  According to Miles and Snow os pect ors  are organizations whose prime capability is that of finding and exploring new product and market opportunities. For a Prospector, maintaining a reputation as an innovator in product and market development may be as important as \(in some cases even more important than\igh profitability. They invest heavily in product research and development R&D\nd environmental scanning, which require high level of technological flexibility. However, the emphasis on innovativeness and flexibility often leads to a lack of controls and low operational efficiency. In the research of the alignment between IS strategy with Prospector strategy, Sabherwal and Chan [4 g g est t h at IS for flexibility strategy focusing on flexibility especially in market information systems and strategic decision support systems, will be suitable for Prospectors In contrast, Defenders stress on operational efficiency and economics of scale. They seal off a stable and a narrow niche in the total potential market by producing only a limited set of products directed at this segment of the mark n i f i ca n t  attention from the Defenders is devoted to controlling operating cost, thus their technology choices favor inflexible but cost-efficient methods. Furthermore they do not tend to search outside their domain for new opportunities, and rarely make major adjustment in their technology th eir res earch a n d development efforts are related to process improvement instead of product innovation. The IS strategy that is aligned with Defenders is IS for efficiency strategy which emphasizes on internal and inter-organizational efficiencies in organizational information systems rather than on flexibility Between the two extremes of Prospector and Defender, there is a third type of organization that is called Analyz It  is a com b in at ion of Prospector and Defender, which seeks to simultaneously minimize risk while maximizing opportunities for growth k e epi n g t h i s pos tu re  Analyzers adopt dual core technologies that have both stable and flexible components. Unlike Defenders, they do not eschew changes; however they will not initiate changes either, but follow the Prospectors for changes instead. According to Sabherwal and Chan  IS for comprehensiveness strategy enables comprehensive decisions and quick responses through knowledge of other organizations, will be suitable for Analyzers In summary, different business strategies require different IS strategies. Prospectors desire for flexibility and innovation in their IS strategy Defenders emphasize on cost containment and stability, and Analyzers endeavor to simultaneously achieve both. Following the argument of Thomas and Ramaswamy  s e of its hy brid n a t u re, th e   CIO characteristics  Age H1a  Tenure H1b  Educational Level H1c  Openness H1d  Extraversio n   H1e   Business Strategy  Prospector Defender Impact of IS on Organization s Business Performance H1 H2  IS Strategy  IS for flexibility IS for efficiency   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


strategic and managerial attributes of Analyzers are not as clear as those of the Prospectors and Defenders. The present study, thus, focuses on the two extreme types Prospector and Defender and it is believed that this is a necessary first step toward a fuller understanding of the attributes of Analyzers in future research 2.2. Alignment between CIO Characteristics and Business Strategy From the strategy decides manager perspective by contending that organizations pursuing different strategies would be led by managers with different characteristics, Miles and Snow n o w l ed g e  the necessity of matching managers to strategy Given the distinct orientations of Prospectors and Defenders, they proposed that the managers of these organizations would have different repertoires of skills and competencies  From the manager decides strategy perspective upper echelon theory arg u e s t h at m a n a g e r s  matter in shaping an organization s strategic choices because strategic choices do not lend themselves to calculable solutions and include a large behavioral component. They reflect, to a large extent, the values principles and preferences of decision makers. When confronted with a complex and incomprehensible situation, a decision maker would typically bring his cognitive bases and values to bear on the situation and formulate an eventual perception and response to the situation. Strategic choices are thus an outcome of selective perceptions and interpretations based on the values and cognitive thoughts of managers Reconciling these two perspectives, we propose the examination of a match between manager and strategy instead of looking into the causal relationship between these two. Based on the discussion of business-IS strategy alignment in the previous section, it can be inferred that Prospectors and Defenders have distinctively different requirement on IS strategy, one focusing on IS for flexibility the other on IS for efficiency Thus they will also expect to have CIOs with different characteristics to come up with different, but appropriate IS strategy to align with the organization s business strategy H1 CIOs of Prospectors and Defenders will have distinctively different profiles of demographic and personality characteristics 2.2.1. Alignment between CIO Characteristics and Business Strategy Upper echelon theory suggests that observable managerial characteristics such as age, tenure educational level could manifest the givens that a manager brings to a strategic situation. Similarly Miles and Snow u gg e s t th at Pros pectors an d  Defenders should be led by CEOs with different age tenure and educational level. In light of this, these three demographic characteristics are chosen as our focus of study Age As previously discussed, the IS strategy for Prospector needs to be flexible and innovative Prospectors, then, need to identify CIOs who can formulate and implement such IS strategy to align with the business needs. Upper echelon theory implies younger CIOs are more inclined to pursue innovative and risky IS strategies then older CIOs Several studies have attempted to provide explanations for such a relationship. First, according to learning theory \(e.g., Chown 1960\ CIOs may have greater difficulty grasping new ideas and learning new behaviors. Cognitive abilities seem to diminish with age, including learning ability reasoning and memory e n ce, older C I Os  m a y have less of the physical and mental stamina needed to exploit IS for innovativeness and flexibility Second, younger CIOs are more likely to have received their education more recently than older CIOs, thus, their technical knowledge should be superior and more current Third, older CIOs may be at a point of their lives where financial security and career security are most important. Their spending traits and expectations about retirement income are establishe In deed  Barker and Mueller 19 a r gue t h a t i nno va t i o n i s r i sk y  as the cost is realized immediately \(i.e., fund is taken away from current profitability\ut any pay-off tends to occur in the long term. Given that older CIOs may have fewer years before retirement, the pay-off from IT investment may not be realized on time to translate into higher salary and bonuses for them Thus, they tend to formulate IS strategy that is stable and cost efficient, which matches the needs of Defenders. In contrast, because their career and financial security concerns have a broader time horizon, younger CIOs can be more risk-seeking in adopting more innovative and flexible IS strategy which will align with the Prospectors business requirement. Thus, we hypothesize H1a CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to be younger than CIOs of Defenders Tenure Upper echelon theory also implies that years of inside service by CIOs are negatively related to strategic choice involving new changes. This is because as the years of tenure increase, the CIOs may have more psychological commitment to the organizational status qu d becom e  m o re  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


strongly committed to implementing their own paradigms of how the IS strategy should be run   Furthermore, long tenure may result in insulation and a narrowing of the CIO s perspectiv ongtenured CIOs may also have developed inertia in their environmental scanning activities, reducing the intensity and scope of their scanning activities. They may also refrain from making changes and investment in keeping the IS strategy innovative and flexible over time [23 in ste a d  th e y  m a y p r e f er to  emphasize stability and efficiency, which suits the Defenders needs for IS strategy H1b CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to have shorter tenure in the organization than CIOs of Defenders Educational level Inferring from upper echelon theory w e  m a y propos e th at t h e a m o u n t s o f  formal education CIOs have had are positively associated with innovativeness and flexibility in IS strategy in organizations. Prior studies \(e.g Kimberly and Evanisko 24 als o in dicate th at h i gh er levels of education are associated with a person s ability to generate and implement creative solutions to complex problems. This ability may explain why people who are more educated have higher tendency to possess more flexible and receptive attitude toward innovation T h e as s o ciation bet w een edu cat ion a l  level and both cognitive ability and attitudes toward innovation may suggest that CIOs with a higher educational level are more likely to adopt IS strategies that are innovative and flexible features consistent with Prospectors needs for IS strategy. In contrast, less educated CIOs are associated with more conservative, risk-averse IS strategies features consistent with the Defenders needs for IS strategy  e th u s  hy pot h e s i ze  H1c CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to have higher level of education than CIOs of Defenders 2.2.2. Personality Traits of CIO and Business Strategy Previous studies examining the relationship between the executive s personality characteristics and the organization s strategy often focus on traits such as need for achievement, locus of control flexibility, risk-taking propensity, dogmatism persuasiveness, and tolerance of ambiguity [25, 26  T h e pers on alit y trait s exa m i n ed in t h es e papers do not follow a specific taxonomy; hence, they do not completely encompass all the attributes that could potentially drive an organization s strategy. In addition, there is some conceptual overlap among several attributes discussed in the papers [2 Hen ce in this paper, we adopt the Big Five taxonomy to analyze the personality traits of a CIO Costa and McCrae 30 arg u e th at it is p o ssib l e to  generalize to the full range of personality traits only if a comprehensive taxonomy of personality is systematically examined. Several lines of evidence suggest that the Big Five model provides such taxonomy h is tax onom y i s als o cu rren t l y  considered the most valuable in personality research  m o stl y beca u s e of th e replicabilit y of th e f i v e  factor structure across different theoretical frameworks, using different assessment approaches including questionnaires and lexical data, in different cultures, employing different languages, and using ratings from different sources  The first dimension, extraversion, consists of sociability, positive emotionality, ambition and excitement-seeking. The second dimension is neuroticism. A person who is high in neuroticism tends to exhibit a high level of insecurity, is suspicious and low in self-confidence. The third dimension is agreeableness, which is the trait of simply being easier to get along with. The forth dimension is conscientiousness, which characterizes a person who is responsible, dependable, persistent and oriented toward work. The last dimension is openness, which describes a person who is imaginative, creative, curious, unconventional broad-minded, and adventurous r pres e n t  focus will be on openness and extraversion which are perceived to be most relevant in strategic formation behavi  Openness Previous empirical studies show a strong relationship between openness and propensity toward innovation. Inferring from the study of Kets De Vries and Miller  on e m a y  s ugg es t t h at C I Os who are low in openness, and who are inflexible rigid and un-adaptive are often associated with IS strategies that are extremely inflexible and anachronistic as the CIOs insular tendencies cause them to ignore environmental cond  Conversely, CIOs with high openness seek out new information. There is strategies are responsive to the environment. They emphasize reacting and adapting to changing conditions through innovation and flexibility. From another aspect of openness, which is being adventurous and risk-taking, Lewin and Stephens  u e th at  m a n a g e r s  w h o are m o re  adventurous and who possess high risk propensity show more willingness to innovate. They become restless in a stable, certain situation. Innovative IS strategies require the CIOs to be flexible, sensitive and broad-minded in order to scan the environment to detect opportunities for innovation. It also requires the CIO to be adventurous since such IS strategy Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


typically involves some uncertainty. We thus hypothesize H1d CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to possess higher level of openness than CIOs of Defenders Extraversion According to the Trait Theory of Personality, people high on extraversion have been found to prefer higher levels of environmental stimulation, task variety, complexity and cognitive arousa T h is in dicate s t h at th e C I O w i t h high er extraversion may be more inclined toward innovative and flexible IS strategies which are highly involved with cognitive arousal, complexity and task variety In line with the reasoning in openness, extraversion is also found to be positively associated with uncertainty preference in portfolio theory  w h ic h implies that people high on extraversion may show more willingness to undertake more uncertain innovations. Furthermore, Bateman and Gran  have found that people high in extraversion also tend to take actions to influence environmental change by scanning for opportunities, showing initiatives, taking action and persuading people. Since changes are an inherent part of innovative and flexible IS strategy and change resistance is typically encountered during implementation of such strategy, pro-activeness and persuasiveness are necessary characteristics in the CIO to carry out such IS strategy. If openness is related to the CIO s sensitivity to changes and willingness to accept innovation, extraversion is also related to the CIO s ability and charisma to captivate people in carrying out the innovative IS strategy H1e CIOs of Prospectors are more likely to possess higher level of extraversion than CIOs of Defenders 2.3. Performance Benefit of Alignment between CIO and Business Strategy CIOs characteristics, both demographics and personality, will affect the organization s IS strategy 9, 39 h ic h i n tu r n n eed s to be m a tc h e d w i t h t h e organization s business strategy n  organization that has a CIO whose characteristics fit the requirements of the organization s business strategy \(e.g. a Prospector with a younger, more open and more extraverted CIO\ will have a better alignment between IS and business strategy, which will in turn benefit organizational performance in terms of employee productivity, operational efficiency, operational cost, customer satisfaction relationships with partners, revenue, profit and market share H2 The impact of IS on organization s business performance for Prospectors and Defenders that are able to achieve an alignment between characteristics of CIOs and the requirements of the business strategies will be significantly better than that of their counterparts that do not achieve such alignment  3. Research Methodology Survey methodology is used to test our model because it provides a basis for establishing generalizability, allows replicability, and has statistical power. The survey was endorsed by the IT Management Association \(ITMA\, an influential nonprofit organization in East Asia with a significant subscriber base of IT professionals and managers We adapted the operationalization of demographic variables mainly from Barker and Mu W e m easu r ed C I O ag e by ask i ng respondents to indicate the age range to which they belong. We took this approach to minimize the discomfort respondents might experience when responding to sensitive questions such as about age We measured educational level by asking respondents to provide the highest degree they had obtained \(1= Diploma; 2 Bachelor; 3=Master 4=PhD; and 5=others\re-coded one response containing Others as 1 without loss of generality because that respondent only had high school qualifications. We measured tenure by asking how many years the respondent had been in the position of CIO or Head of IT in his current organization of affiliation We adapted personality variables mainly from the International Personality Item Pool. Business strategy attributes were measured using 7-point Likert scales ranging from 1 \(strongly disagree\o 7 \(strongly agree\he questionnaire items were adapted from   T a b le 1  Risk Aversion 1  Our business decisions generally follow tried and true paths 2  We adopt a rather conservative view when making major decisions 3  In general, our mode of operations is less risky than that of our competitors Proactiveness 1  We generally increase capacity \(i.e., prepare to handle a greater volume of business\fore our competitors do the same 2  We are usually the first ones to introduce various products and/or services in the market Openness  1  I love to read challenging material 2  I am quick to understand things 3  I love to think up new ways of doing things 4  I like to challenge the norms Extraversion Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


1  I feel comfortable around people 2  I talk to a lot of different people at parties 3  I know how to captivate people 4  I am skilled in handling social situations Table 1. Business Strategy Attributes \(adapted from   Prior research does indicate that managerial assessments of company performance are highly correlated with objective performance indicators and hence, following Sabherwal and Chan w e relied on perceptual measures of business performance These measures include \(1\employee productivity 2\peration efficiency, \(3\on cost, \(4 customer satisfaction, \(5\ationship with partners 6\revenue earnings, \(7\rofit, and \(8\arket share These items were measured using seven-point Likert scales that compared the company to its competition ranging from 1 \(much worse than the competitor much better than the competitor To assess face and content validity, we presented the survey instrument to the head of ITMA and two experienced CIOs for their comments and advice Based on their suggestions, we made some minor modifications in the wording and framing of the questions. Subsequently, we uploaded the revised instrument onto the web pages, and asked three IT professionals to comment on the layout and presentation of the questionnaire. To avoid information overloading, we incorporated further suggestions to shorten some pages. When the three IT professionals thoroughly tested and found no problems with the instrument, we informed ITMA to proceed with the survey administration 3.1. Survey Administration We placed a survey package consisting of a cover letter stating the study objective, the survey instruction, and the survey questionnaire on a web server. ITMA put up a link on their website to our online survey questionnaire. It also selected suitable members \(holding the title of IS/IT manager, IT Director, CIO, Chief Technical Officer respondents, and sent the survey invitation letter containing the URL web link and a password via email to the members on our behalf. This approach was taken to protect the privacy of ITMA members Together with our decision not to collect any personally identifiable information, separating sending tasks from receiving tasks in the administration of the survey enabled us and the endorsers to enforce strict anonymity and confidentiality for our respondents. The survey invitation was extended to 318 selected senior ITMA members who fit the job profile of a CIO and should be cognizant of IT usage and operations in their organizations, and should thus be able to provide valid and accurate information To increase the response rate, we subsequently provided other options 1 First, the survey package was sent as an e-mail attachment to two organizations that reported problems in accessing the online survey website. Second, 10 packages were sent by conventional mail to organizations that preferred a paper-based survey. One week before the closing deadline of the survey, the head of ITMA also sent reminders to the pre-selected members to respond Of the 318 pre-selected members, 95 responded yielding a response rate of 29.87%. This response rate is acceptable, given the unsolicited nature of the survey and the high profile of the target respondents i.e., the CIOs e s pons e s f r o m  s i x res pon den t s   however, were incomplete. We omitted these from further analysis because we could not recover the missing data due to the anonymous nature of our survey. It is to note that our respondents came from organizations with diverse characteristics in terms of industry, number of employees, and number of IT professionals employed. As we had no detailed information on the non-respondents, we conducted a response bias test \(using student s t-test\ by comparing early respondents against late ones determined by the median value\s all control and independent variables  4. Data Analysis Each response was assessed based on the answers to questions on risk aversion and pro-activeness Organizations with responses of high risk aversion and low pro-activeness were classified as defenders Organizations with responses of low risk aversion and high pro-activeness were classified as prospectors. Others were labeled as analyzers. 8 analyzers were excluded from further analysis as discussed in Section 2.1 The hypothesis testing process comprises three distinct steps. The first step classified the organizations as defenders or prospectors. The second step, we compared the CIO characteristics of prospectors against CIO characteristics of defenders along two broad dimensions: CIO demographic characteristics \(CIO age and CIO educational level and CIO personality \(extraversion and openness Chi-square tests \(see table 2\and analysis of variance see table 3\were used to determine whether the theoretically expected CIO profiles were in fact associated with the distinct strategic postures   1  We maintained the separation of sending and receiving tasks in these new modes of data collection  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Chi-square analyses were used to test the categorical variables: CIO age, CIO tenure and CIO educational level. Our results in CIO demographic characteristics suggest that there is a significant difference between defenders and prospectors in term of age \(t = 2.533, p < .05; Mann Whitney U test of z 2.454, p < .05\but not with respect to tenure \(t 1.371, p > .10; Mann Whitney U test of z = -1.159, p 10\ and educational level \(t = -1.243, p > .10 Mann Whitney U test of z = -1.258, p > .10\ce hypothesis H1a is support but not H1b and H1c Comparatively, our results in CIO personality suggest that prospectors show significantly more extraversion and openness compared to defenders \(see Table 3\ In this regard, hypothesis H1d and H1e are supported  Defender n = 35 Prospector n = 46 CIO Age 35 and below 6 18 36 to 40 4 11 41 to 45 11 7 46 to 50 9 7 51 to 55 4 4 Above 55 1 0 Chi-square 11.457 12.468 Degree of freedom 5 4 Sig .043 .014 CIO Tenure 5 years and below 15 24 6 to 10 years 9 17 11 to 15 years 10 3 16 to 20 years 1 0 21 years and above 1 2 Chi-square 11.714 23.522 Degree of freedom 14 12 Sig .629 .024 CIO Educational Level Diploma and below 6 2 Bachelor 17 25 Master 11 20 PhD 1 0 Chi-square 16.086 18.681 Degree of freedom 3 2 Sig .001 .000 Table 2. Chi-square Analysis Comparing CIOs of Defenders and Prospectors  CIO Personality Defender n = 35 Prospector n = 46 Results Extraversion 4.921 1.336 5.728 896 F 10.557, p 01 Openness 5.120 1.062 5.948 641 F 18.928, p 01 Table 3. Analysis of Variance Comparing CIOs of Defenders and Prospectors The third step, we assessed the performance impact of the business strategy-CIO match. A match was considered to have been achieved when at least 3 of the 4 CIO attributes corresponded to the organizations strategic type. For instance, a matched prospector should be younger, have higher qualification, and possess higher extraversion and higher openness than the average CIO in the sample Performance differences between organizations achieving alignment and other organizations misaligned\ were assessed through analyses of variance \(ANOVA\ \(see Table 4\ It is important to recognize that the two groups, aligned organizations and misaligned organizations are comprised of prospectors and defenders. Further analysis was also conducted to compare aligned-prospectors with misaligned organizations \(see Table 5\. As the number of aligned-defenders was relatively small N=6\, further analysis comparing defenders with misaligned organizations were not conducted Performance Measure Misaligned n =48 Aligned   n =33 Results Increase in Employee Productivity 5.06 \(.783 6.30 684 F 54.302; p 01 Increase in Operation Efficiency 5.23 \(.831 6.15 795 F 24.929; P 01 Increase in Operation Cost 4.81 \(.982 6.15 795 F 36.916; P 01 Increase Customer Satisfaction 5.02 \(.863 6.12 740 F 35.634; P 01 Improvement in relationship with partners 4.81 \(.790 5.82 917 F 27.792; P 01 Increase in Revenue 4.48 \(.989 5.27 1.281 F 9.874; P 01 Increase in Profit 4.83 \(.996 5.58 867 F 12.040; P 01 Increase in Market Share 4.44 \(.987 5.61 1.059 F 25.824; P 01 Aligned-Prospectors \(n=27\; Aligned-Defenders \(n=6 Table 4. Comparing IT Impact on Organization Performance of Aligned and Misaligned Organizations Performance Measure Misaligned n =48 Aligned Prospectors n =27 Results Increase in 5.06 \(.783 6.33 \(.679 F Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


Employee Productivity 49.917 p < .01 Increase in Operation Efficiency 5.23 \(.831 6.15 \(.718 F 23.216 P < .01 Increase in Operation Cost 4.81 \(.982 6.15 \(.718 F 38.324 P < .01 Increase Customer Satisfaction 5.02 \(.863 6.15 \(.770 F 31.816 P < .01 Improvement in relationship with partners 4.81 \(.790 5.93 \(.917 F 30.565 P < .01 Increase in Revenue 4.48 \(.989 5.30 \(1.382 F 8.809; P 01 Increase in Profit 4.83 \(.996 5.63 \(.884 F 11.945 P < .01 Increase in Market Share 4.44 \(.987 5.74 \(1.023 F 29.350 P < .01 Table 5. Comparing IT Impact on Organization Performance of Aligned-Prospector and Misaligned Organizations 5. Discussion Drawing on the study of typologies of business strategy i g nm e n t bet w ee n IS a n d bu si n e s s  strategy d u pper echelon th eor y 11 w e  propose and test a conceptual model \(1\amine the alignment between CIO characteristics and the organization s business strategy and \(2\measure the impact of such alignment on organization s business performance. Our survey results indicate that different business strategies will match with CIOs with different repertoires of competencies experiences and personalities. The impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly better than it is in misaligned ones Before we discuss the implications of the study, it is imperative that we are aware of the study s limitations. First, there is a possibility of common method bias in this study. We have collected our data on both independent and dependent measures through self-reporting at a single point in time. This approach might have given rise to respondents giving answers they believed the survey researchers expected to receive. We minimized these effects in two ways: we implemented the online web-based survey questionnaire in such a way to prevent respondents from back-trekking to change their answers, and we presented the pages of the survey items in a random manner to discourage respondents from figuring out the relationship between the independent and dependent variables that we were trying to establish The anonymous nature of the survey would also mitigate the likelihood that respondents provided self-serving answers or answers they believed we expected Second, our dependent variable organizational performance is measured through CIO s selfreporting response. While CIO may be cognizant to provide such information, this inevitably may affect the objectivity of the measurement as it may only represent the CIO s perception of how IT is used in the organization and there could be an inherent bias in the CIO s perceptions of the phenomenon. One way to address this issue is to adopt some objective measurements of how IT is used in an organization another way is to ask CEO or business manager to comment on the IT and business strategy issues in addition to seeking similar comments from the CIO Notwithstanding the limitations, our findings have the potential to advance both theory and management practice in the following areas. First our research is among the first to empirically study the alignment between CIO characteristics and business strategy since previous research attention has only been paid to the relationship between the CEO and an organization s business strategy and performance in the upper echelon literature. Given the increasing penetration of IS into business and the more and more intensive involvement of CIOs in organizational business strategy formulation, this is a much needed perspective. Our results show that different business strategies will match with CIOs with different repertoires of competencies experiences and personalities \(i.e. CIOs of Prospector are likely to be younger and possess higher level of openness and extraversion than CIOs of Defenders and the impact of IS on business performance in aligned organizations is significantly better than it is in misaligned ones Second, instead of focusing only on the observable characteristics \(e.g. age, tenure educational level\ the CIO, we also explore their underlying psychological traits such as openness and extraversion. The results indicate that psychological behavioral processes \(openness and extraversion may be far more important than demographic characteristics \(tenure and educational level\n describing a CIO. This may stimulate some debate on the upper echelon perspective concerning the impact of observable characteristics vis-‡-vis the underlying psychological characteristics of top managers on strategic choices. The significance of personality variables and the non-significance of demographic variables such as tenure and educational level are of thought-provoking implications. Clarke u e d  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


that personality traits are likely to be more permanent and consistent during the lifetime of an individual Our study has shown that a CIO can be more accurately described by permanent characteristics such as openness and extraversion than by evolving  characteristics such as tenure and educational level This may suggest that aspects of upper echelon theory that focus on certain demographic characteristics may not necessarily generalize across all functional areas \(e.g. IS Third, we seek to add to the nascent literature that aims to develop theory-based arguments about the profiles of CIOs in organizations. In terms of management practice, understanding the alignment between CIO characteristics and organization s business strategy and the benefits of this alignment would be particularly valuable to the recruitment development and management of key IS personnel  6. References  1 J  L u f t m a n a nd T  B r ie r   Achieving and Sustaining Business-IT Alignment California Management Review 42\(1\, 1999, pp. 109-122 2 M  A d c o c k M H e lm s  a nd K  W e n-J a ng  Information Technology: Can it Provide a Sustainable Competitive Advantage Information Strategy: The Executive Journal 9\(3\, 1993, pp. 10-15  Y Ch an an d S  Hu f f   Strategic Information Systems Alignment Business Quarterly 58\(1\ 1993, pp. 51-56  R S a bh erw a l an d Y E  C h an   Alignment between Business and IS Strategies: A Study of Prospectors Analyzers and Defenders Information Systems Research 12 \(1\, 2001, pp. 11-33   P  Keen  D o Y o u Need a n IT  S t rat e g y i n J N L u f t m a n  ed.\peting in the Information Age, New York Oxford University Press, 1996 6 A  Bo y n t o n  B  Vi ctor an d B  P i ne II A l i g ni ng IT W i t h  New Competitive Strategies. in J. N Luftman \(ed Competing in the Information Age, New York: Oxford University Press, 1996 7 M. J  Ea rl a nd D   F. Fe e n y   Is your CIO adding value Sloan Management Review 35\(3\, 1994, pp. 11-20 8 A  S T hom a s a nd K   R a m a sw am y   Matching Managers to Strategy: Further Tests of Miles and Snow Topology British Journal of Management 7, 1996, pp 247-261 9 D. H Sm a ltz V  Sa m b a m urthy a nd R. A g a r wa l The Antecedents of CIO Role Effectiveness in Organizations An Empirical Study in Healthcare Sector IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management 53 \(2\, 2006, pp 207-222 10  S. W a tts a nd J  C  H e nde rs o n  Innovative IT Climates: CIO Perspectives Journal of Strategic Information Systems 15 \(2\, 2006, pp. 125-151 11 D  C  H a m b ric k a nd P  A  Ma s on Upper Echelons The Organization as a Reflection of its Top Managers  Academy of Management Review 9 \(2\, 1984, pp. 193 206 12 R  E  Mi le s a n d C. C  S now O r g a niz a tiona l Stra te gy  Structure, and Process, New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co 1978 13 J. C. Ca m illus a nd A  L  L e de re r Corporate Strategy and the Design of Computerized Information Systems  Sloan Management Review 26 \(3\985, pp. 35-42 14 Y   P  G u p t a  T  M  K a r i m i  a n d T  M  S o m e r s   Alignment of a Firm s Competitive Strategy and Information Technology Management Sophistication: The Missing Link IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management 44, 1997, pp. 400-413 15 T  M. K a rim i Y   P  G upta  a nd T  M Som e rs  The Congruence between a Firm s Competitive Strategy and Information Technology Leader s Rank and Role Journal of Management Information Systems 13 \(1\, 1996, pp. 6388 16 R  S i m on Accounting Control Systems and Business Strategy Accounting, Organizations and Society 12, 1987 pp. 357-374 1 M  B u rke an d L  L  L i gh t   Memory and Aging: the Role of Retrieval Processes Psychology Bulletin 90 \(3 1981, pp. 513 514 18 K  A  Ba nte l a nd S  E. J a c k s on Top Management and Innovations in Banking: Does the Composition of the Top Management Team Make a Difference Strategic Management Journal 10, 1989, pp. 107-124 19  V  L  Bark er III an d G  C. Mu eller CEO Characteristics and Firm R&D Spending Management Science 48 \(6\2002, pp. 782-801 2 B  M  S t aw an d J Ross  Commitment in an Experimenting Society: A Study of the Attribution of Leadership from Administrative Scenarios Journal of Applied Psychology 65 \(3\, 1980, pp. 249-260 21 D  C  H a m b r i c k a n d G  F u k u t o m i   The Seasons of a CEO s Tenure Academy of Management Review 16 1991, pp. 719-742 2 J  P f ef fer Organ i zat i o n a l Dem o gr ap h y  i n Research i n  Organizational Behavior. ed. L. L. Cummings and B. M Staw, JAI Press. Greenwich, CT, 1983 23 D  Mi lle r Stale in the Saddle: CEO Tenure and the Match between Organization and Environment  Management Science 37 \(1\1991, pp. 34 52 2 J  R Ki m b erl y an d M  J  E v an i s ko   Organizational Innovation: The Influence of Individual, Organizational and Contextual Factors on Hospital Adoption of Technical Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


and Administrative Innovations Academy of Management Journal 24 \(4\ 1981, pp. 689-713 25 A  Y. L e w i n a nd C. U Ste phe ns  CEO Attitudes as Determinants of Organization Design: An Integrated Model Organization Studies 15 \(2\1994, pp. 183-212 26 J   M. H o w e ll a nd C  A  H i g g i ns  Champions of Technological Innovation Administrative Science Quarterly 35, 1990, pp. 317-341 27 D Mille r a n d J. M. T o ulo u se  Chief Executive Personality and Corporate Strategy and Structure in Small Firms Management Science 32 \(11\1986, pp. 13891409 28  V P a pa da k i s a nd D  B o ur a n ta s   The Chief Executive Officer as Corporate Champion of Technological Innovation: An Empirical Investigation Technology Analysis and Strategic Management 10 \(1\, 1998, pp. 89108 29 J M. Dig m a n  Personality Structure: Emergence of the Five-Factor Model Annual Review of Psychology 41 1\, 1990, pp. 417-440 30  P. T  Co sta an d  P. R McCrae, Rev i sed NEO  Personality Inventory \(NEO PI-R\he NEO FiveFactor Inventory \(NEO-FFI\ofessional manual, Odessa FL: Psychological Assessment Resources, 1992 3 M  Di gm an an d J Ino u y e  Further Specifications of the Five Robust Factors of Personality Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 50 \(1\86, pp. 116123 32 M  R  B a r r i c k  M  K  M o u n t  a n d T  A  J u d g e   Personality and Performance at the Beginning of the New Millennium: What Do We Know and Where Do We Go Next Personality and Performance 9 \(1/2\, 2001, pp. 930 33 J   M  D i g m a n a n d A  G S h me l y o v   A  G   The Structure of Temperament and Personality in Russian Children Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 71\(2\, 1996, pp. 341-51 34 Ke ts De  V r ie s a n d D. Mille r T h e Ne ur otic  Organization, Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, 1984 35 A  Y. L e w i n a nd C. U Ste phe ns  CEO Attitudes as Determinants of Organization Design: An Integrated Model Organization Studies 15 \(2\1994, pp. 183-212 3 H. J E y sen c k an d A  Le ve y   Alternation in Choice Behavior and Extraversion Life Sciences 4, 1965, pp 115-119 3 R E   V e st ew i g   Extraversion and Risk Preference in Portfolio Theory The Journal of Psychology 97 \(2\1977 pp. 237-245 3 T   S  Bat e m a n an d J M  G r an t   The Proactive Component of Organizational Behavior: A measure and Correlations Journal of Organizational Behavior 14 \(2 1993, pp. 103-118 3  Ya y l a an d Q Hu   Determinants of CIO Compensation Structure and Its Impact on Firm Performance Proceedings of the 41 st Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2008, pp 427-427 40 G  S K e a r ns  The Effect of Top Management Support of SISP on Strategic IS Management: Insights from the US Electric Power Industry Omega 34 \(3\ 2006 pp. 236-253 4 H H T e o  K K W e i and I Be n b a sat  Predicting Intention to Adopt Interorganizational Linkages: An Institutional Perspective MIS Quarterly 27 \(1\03, pp 19-49 42 L  Cla r k e  Conflict, Consistency and Fulfillment Revisited: Approaches to Modelling the Person Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing 4 \(6\, 1997, pp 407-416. 1997 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Figure 9 also highlights the difficulty in designing a dynamic algorithm that is stable for most network configurations For data point 5 and 9 jitter is difficult to predict based on the AR PRESET This variability is most likely a result of the tolerance mechanism presenting artifacts during certain network configurations If the algorithm chooses too aggressively for too many data flows the contention parameters are set more aggressively and performance in the network suffers Although jitter remains better than NoDiff for all data points in Figure 9 providing more consistent behavior should be a primary goal for future versions of the AA SD Video Jitter 0.07 0.06 0.05  0.04  0.03 0.02 0.01 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Number of VCT and TS Nodes Figure 10 SD Video Jitter The average jitter for SD video is shown in Figure 10 This data represents a lower priority level and as compared to voice jitter in Figure 9 is able to provide better predictability The data still shows that performance for AA experiences greater variability than Normal but over most data points is better than both NoDiff and Normal HD video performance is similar to SD but has greater overall jitter and is therefore not shown Telemetry Jitter o 045 o 04 4 NoDiff Normal 0 035 AA 0 03 025 0  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Number of VCT Nodes 11 0.015 0.01 0.0050 Figure 11 Telemetry Jitter In Figure 11 which shows the jitter for Telemetry the data exhibits similar characteristics as the data for voice jitter Due to inconsistencies in the settling of the algorithm performance does not follow the same curve as NoDiff or Normal however for most data points the performance is better than NoDiff Figure 12 Command Round Trip Time The RTT for Command data is shown in Figure 12 Similar conclusions can be drawn from this data as have been discussed previously This data also exhibits greater variability than Normal and better overall performance than NoDiff The behavior of AA closely resembles that of AA in Figure 11 which reinforces the conclusion that the builtin hysteresis of the algorithm does not fully accommodate all network configurations Overall the Adaptive Algorithm is able to meet its goals of being a distributed way to dynamically manage priority and still perform similarly to static prioritization and better than no differentiation at all The self correcting characteristic of the algorithm leads to increased variability in performance which in some cases such as extreme network load causes the Adaptive Algorithm to perform significantly worse than static prioritization On the other hand network throughput is improved when the network is under-utilized because the Adaptive Algorithm is only engaged when performance requirements are not being met When viewed as a trade-off between simplicity of deployment and performance benefits over non-prioritized networks the Adaptive Algorithm can provide significant value to network architects and TS 


9 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK We have presented an extension to 802.1l e that dynamically adapts the contention parameters to meet performance requirements of lunar communications We have explored the capacity of 802.1lg using dynamic 802.1le to handle VoIP command telemetry and video according to their respective QoS requirements The data presented here shows that the Adaptive Algorithm can be deployed in these scenarios to effectively manage priority without a complicated centralized infrastructure This capability will be essential for short-range lunar communications in that quick deployment will be a primary goal The prevalence of 802.11 hardware and the possibility of the 2.4GHz band to perform at long and short ranges make it a viable option for future lunar networks However priority will be a necessity especially if the network carries non-critical traffic alongside mission-critical VoIP and data Future work on the algorithm will include improvement to the tolerance mechanism to reduce added contention from over-adjustment It is possible that more testing with more conservative settings will result in less variable network conditions at the expense of faster convergence Although we feel that the algorithm presented here is important we believe it is not the total solution It has been shown in previous works that in general 802.1 le increases contention in the network which results in overall lower throughput The Adaptive Algorithm does alleviate this disadvantage for some scenarios but not all Other works show that 802.1 le under the HCCA can solve the problem of throughput at the expense of simplicity and rapid deployment Therefore we expect that many 802.11 e deployments will use a mix of pure EDCA and HCCA in addition to using EDCA as a backup measure for HCCA Having an efficient and simple way to use ECDA will provide network architects with greater flexibility and will further reduce dependence on proprietary network design as we move towards expansion beyond the Earth 10 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at Clemson University under the South Carolina Space Grant Consortium Research and Education Awards Program REAP and at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 1 ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1 lb 1999 Edition IEEE Standard for Information technologyTelecommunications and Information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks Specific requirements Part 11 IEEE 1999 2 ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1 le 1999 Edition IEEE Standard for Information technologyTelecommunications and Information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks Specific requirements Part 11 Amendment 8 IEEE 1999 3 Wi-Fi CERTIFIED for WMM Support for Multimedia Applications with Quality of Service in Wi-Fi Networks Wi-Fi Alliance September 1 2004 4 Swaminathan Arvind and James Martin 2006 Fairness Issues in Hybrid 802.1 lb/e Networks Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2006 3rd IEEE Vol 1 Issue 8-10 50-54 5 Wietholter Sven and Hoene Christian 2003 Design and Verification of an IEEE 802.1 le EDCA Simulation Model in ns-2.26 TKN Technical Report Series Technical University Berlin November 2003 6 Cali F M Conti E Gregori 2000 Dynamic Tuning of the IEEE 802.11 Protocol to Achieve a Theoretical Throughput Limit IEEE/ACM Transactions On Networking Vol 8 No 6 December 2000 785-799 7 Cali F M Conti E Gregori 2000 IEEE 802.11 Protocol Design and Performance Evaluation of an Adaptive Backoff Mechanism IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications Vol 18 No 9 September 8 Chen D S Garg M Kappes K Trivedi 2002 Supporting VBR VoIP Traffic in IEEE 802.11 WLAN in PCF Mode Center for Advanced Computing and Communications ECE Department Duke University Durham NC Avaya Labs Research New Jersey 9 Siris Vasilios and Stamatakis George 2006 Optimal CWmin Selection for Achieving Proportional Fairness in Multi-Rate 802.1 le WLANs Test-bed Implementation and Evaluation International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking WiNTECH 06 10 He Dajiang and Charles Shen 2003 Simulation Study of IEEE 802.1l e EDCA Vehicular Technology Conference Spring 2003 Vol 1 685-689 12 ILREFERENCES 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


14 is particularly challenging It is noteworthy that these translations may well be haptic and audible as well as visual A final building block for the disseminated user interface is the development of advanced packaging techniques for assembly of the HSI components into sufficiently small packages that may be unobtrusively introduced into crew quarters and crew clothing so that their use requires little or no special setup before operation Power sources and lightweight batteries would be needed as well compatible with the spacecraft environment Changing your shirt may also change your batteries for the wearable sensors Intelligent agents are a focus for many of the activities of the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Several demonstrations of early prototypes have been performed so this area is considered one for development rather than just research 7. C ONCLUSIONS Inflatable spacecraft represent a revolutionary way of creating viable living and operations volume for humans engaged in exploration missions providing increased usable volume with reduced launch mass and volume They can potentially increase resistance to micrometeorite and space radiation hazards over conventional aluminum structures while being more flexible for reconfiguration from transit to habitat modes Challenges maintaining avionics operation during dynamic changes from stowed to deployed state during inflation providing feedthroughs between the inner and outer surface of the pressure vessel and for monitoring the health of the inflatable fabric itself can be met by applying innovations in the areas of avionics architecture intelligent sensors, human-system interfaces and spacecraft information interaction, currently in the research and development phase These innovations leverage the capabilities of each other to provide new concepts for the operation of long duration human spacecraft MAA is based on a massively redundant peer-to-peer construct providing much higher fault tolerance and higher computational performance Intelligent sensors have the potential for dramatically reducing sensor failures and inaccuracies again by employing many redundant elements with internal cross-checking of function and accuracy MAA directly supports roaming mobile HSI and its excess computational power can be used for hosting intelligent agent technology for information management and access The use of wireless networks and wireless power distribution directly supports inflatable spacecraft by eliminating inflexible cables and feedthroughs across the pressure vessel An innovative operations concept for transit vehicle piloting operation and maintenance was outlined incorporating these technologies providing virtual cockpits for vehicle operation, augmented reality for complex support activities and unobtrusive interfaces for common activities Design guidelines for constructing such HSI systems were presented consistent with current human factors practice The use of intelligent agents nicely complements advanced HSI allowing natural interaction between crew and spacecraft systems and payloads, effectively increasing crew size Technology for implementing proof-of-concept prototypes already exists Significant improvement in performance power consumption size mass and cost are required for all elements but are anticipated to be achieved using modern semiconductor advances Packaging and hardening for the space environment will remain serious challenges Critical advances in software architecture and algorithms will be needed to integrate these widely dispersed assets into a coherent system capable of maintain function despite failures and changing mission conditions In many ways the system architecture described is a good host for developing and testing many advanced software concepts Agent-based design in general may help coordinate many of the loosely-coupled modules and functions identified Successful implementation of this architecture and complementary features can lead to more robust inflatable spacecraft, increasing the performance and capabilities of the spacecraft and its crew during the conduct of exploration missions to the moon and Mars 


15 R EFERENCES  1  h t t p    w w w  b i g e l o w a e r o s p a c e  c o m  o u t _ t h e r e   2  h t t p    s p a c e f l i g h t  n a s a  g o v  h i s t o r y  s t a t i o n  t r a n s h a b  3  322 A v i o n i c s  A p p l i c a t i o n  S o f t w a r e  S t a n d a r d  I n t e r f a c e 323  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d   2 0 0 6  A R I N C  6 5 3  S t a n d a r d  4  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  1 1 9 9 9  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320  N e t w o r k C a p a b l e  A p p l i c a t i o n  P r o c e s s o r  I n f o r m a t i o n  M o d e l  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 7 6 7   A p r i l  1 8   2 0 0 0   5  I E E E  S t d  1 4 5 1  2 1 9 9 7  I E E E  S t a n d a r d  f o r  a  S m a r t T r a n s d u c e r  I n t e r f a c e  f o r  S e n s o r s  a n d  A c t u a t o r s  320 T r a n s d u c e r  t o  M i c r o p r o c e s s o r  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  P r o t o c o l s a n d  T r a n s d u c e r  E l e c t r o n i c  D a t a  S h e e t   T E D S   f o r m a t s  I n s t r u m e n t a t i o n  a n d  M e a s u r e m e n t  S o c i e t y   T C 9  I n s t i t u t e  o f  E l e c t r i c a l  a n d  E l e c t r o n i c  E n g i n e e r s   N e w Y o r k   N Y  1 0 0 1 6 5 9 9 7   S H 9 4 5 6 6   S e p t e m b e r  2 5   1 9 9 8   6  F e r n a n d o  F i g u e r o a   R a n d y  H o l l a n d   J o h n  S c h m a l z e l   D a n D u n c a v a g e   R i c k  A l e n a   A l a n  C r o c k e r   322 I S H M I m p l e m e n t a t i o n  f o r  C o n s t e l l a t i o n  S y s t e m s  323  A I A A  2 0 0 6 4 4 1 0   4 2 n d  A I A A  A S M E  S A E  A S E E  J o i n t  P r o p u l s i o n C o n f e r e n c e    E x h i b i t   J u l y  9 1 2   2 0 0 6   S a c r a m e n t o C o n v e n t i o n  C e n t e r   S a c r a m e n t o   C A   7  H i e r o n y m u s   J   a n d  D o w d i n g   J     C l a r i s s a  S p o k e n D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m    A C T A  A s t r o n a u t i c a   2 0 0 6   8  F i s h e r   S   S    M c G r e e v y   M    H u m p h r i e s   J     R o b i n e t t  W    1 9 8 6    V i r t u a l  E n v i r o n m e n t  D i s p l a y  S y s t e m   A C M 1 9 8 6  W o r k s h o p  o n  3 D  I n t e r a c t i v e  G r a p h i c s   C h a p e l  H i l l  N o r t h  C a r o l i n a    2 3 2 4  O c t o b e r  1 9 8 6   A C M   p p   7 7 8 7   9  B r o o k s   F   B   J r    1 9 9 9   W h a t 325 s  r e a l  a b o u t  v i r t u a l  r e a l i t y  I E E E   C o m p u t e r  G r a p h i c s  a n d  A p p l i c a t i o n s   1 9    1 6 2 7   1 0  N o r m a n   D o n a l d  A    2 0 0 7   T h e  d e s i g n  o f  f u t u r e  t h i n g s  B a s i c  B o o k s   N e w  Y o r k   1 1  C l a n c e y   W  J   S i e r h u i s   M    A l e n a   R    C r a w f o r d   S   D o w d i n g    J    G r a h a m   J    K a s k i r i s   C    T y r e e   K   S    a n d v a n H o o f   R    2 0 0 4   M o b i l e  A g e n t s   A  d i s t r i b u t e d  v o i c e c o m m a n d e d  s e n s o r y  a n d  r o b o t i c  s y s t e m  f o r s u r f a c e  E V A  a s s i s t a n c e   I n  R   B   M a l l a  a n d  A   M a j i  e d s    E n g i n e e r i n g   C o n s t r u c t i o n    a n d  O p e r a t i o n s  i n C h a l l e n g i n g  E n v i r o n m e n t s   E a r t h  a n d  S p a c e  2 0 0 4   H o u s t o n   A S C E   p p   8 5 9 2  1 2  A l e n a  R    O s s e n f o r t  J    L e e  C    W a l k e r  E    S t o n e  T   322 D e s i g n  o f  H y b r i d  M o b i l e  C o m m u n i c a t i o n  N e t w o r k s  f o r P l a n e t a r y  E x p l o r a t i o n 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 4  B i g  S k y   M T   1 3  R i c h a r d  L   A l e n a   J o h n  P   O s s e n f o r t  I V   K e n n e t h  I  L a w s   A n d r e  G o f o r t h  322 C o m m u n i c a t i o n s  f o r  I n t e g r a t e d M o d u l a r  A v i o n i c s 323  I E E E  A e r o s p a c e  C o n f e r e n c e  2 0 0 7  B i g  S k y  M T   1 4  322 A i r c r a f t  D a t a  N e t w o r k  323  A R I N C  6 6 4  S t a n d a r d D o c u m e n t   2 0 0 2  B IOGRAPHY Richard L Alena is a Computer Engineer in the Intelligent Systems Division at NASA Ames Mr Alena is currently working on the Mission Operations System for the LCROSS Lunar mission and on avionics architecture for a lander vehicle for human lunar missions He was the co-lead for the Advanced Diagnostic Systems for International Space Station ISS Project developing model-based diagnostic tools for space operations. He was the chief architect of a flight experiment conducted aboard Shuttle and Mir using laptop computers personal digital assistants and servers in a wireless network for the ISS He was also the technical lead for the Databus Analysis Tool for International Space Station on-orbit diagnosis He was group lead for Intelligent Mobile Technologies developing planetary exploration systems for field simulations Mr Alena holds an M.S in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California Berkeley He is the winner of the NASA Silver Snoopy Award in 2002 a NASA Group Achievement Award in 1998 for his work on the ISS Phase 1 Program Team and a Space Flight Awareness Award in 1997 Stephen R Ellis  headed the Advanced Displays and Spatial perception Laboratory at the NASA Ames Research Center between September 1989 and March 2006 and is currently a member of this group He received a Ph.D 1974 from McGill University in Psychology after receiving a A.B in Behavioral Science from U.C Berkeley He has had postdoctoral fellowships in Physiological Optics at Brown University and at U.C Berkeley  He has published on the topic of presentation and user interaction with spatial information in 170 journal publications and formal reports and has been in the forefront of the introduction of perspective and 3D displays into aerospace user interfaces In particular he has worked recently on kinesthetic techniques to improve cursor and manipulator control under difficult display control coordinate mappings He has served on the editorial boards of Presence  and Human Factors  and 


16 has edited a book Pictorial communication in virtual and real environments concerning the geometric and dynamics aspects of human interface to systems using spatial data.\(Taylor and Francis London 2nd Ed  1993 He was awarded a University Medal from Kyushu Sangyo University in Japan in 1992 Dougal Maclise  is currently the group lead for the ISHM Technology Maturation Group within the Intelligent Systems Division at Ames Research Center He has a Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Masters degree in BioMedical Engineering Over the fifteen years that he has worked at NASA he has managed a wide variety of projects such as animal physiology experiment payloads for the Shuttle the consolidation of seven resource tracking databases a real-time imaging payload for the SolarPowered Pathfinder UAV and the development of the Advanced Diagnostics and Prognostics Testbed For the last five years he has focused on the systems engineering and application aspects of Integrated Systems Health Management while working on the Second Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle Orbital Space Plane and Next Generation Launch Technology projects.  He is currently the Information Systems lead for the Lunar Lander Project J a m e s  H i e r o n y m u s  i s U S R A  S e n i o r  S c i e n t i s t  i n t h e  C o l l a b o r a t i v e  a n d A s s i s t i v e  S y s t e m s   C A S  T e c h n i c a l  A r e a  w i t h i n  t h e I n t e l l i g e n t  S y s t e m s  D i v i s i o n a t  N A S A  A m e s    He was technical lead for the NASA team which developed the Clarissa spoken dialogue system that talks astronauts through executing complex procedures which has been installed for testing on the International Space Station  He worked with John Dowding on the EVITA EVA Intelligent Talking Assistants spoken dialogue system for lunar space suits The EVITA system forms a front end for the Mobile Agents system which keeps track of all of the assets on a lunar exploration mission assists in scheduling navigation sample gathering and commands robots H i s  P h D  i s  f r o m C o r n e l l  U n i v e r s i t y   m a s t e r s  d e g r e e  f r o m  U  C a l  S a n  D i e g o  a n d  B  S   f r o m  t h e  U n i v e r s i t y  o f  M i c h i g a n    H e  w a s  a  P o s t D o c  a t  t h e  S t a n f o r d  A I  L a b  w o r k i n g  o n  a u t o m a t i c  s p e e c h r e c o g n i t i o n    H e  h e l p e d  s t a r t  t h e  s p e e c h  l a b o r a t o r y  a t  N I S T  w a s  a  l i n g u i s t i c s  p r o f e s s o r  a t  U   o f  E d i n b u r g h  i n  t h e  C e n t r e f o r  S p e e c h  T e c h n o l o g y  R e s e a r c h   a  M e m b e r  o f  T e c h n i c a l  S t a f f i n  t h e  L i n g u i s t i c s  a n d  S p o k e n  D i a l o g u e  S y s t e m s  D e p a r t m e n t s a t  B e l l  L a b s   M u r r a y  H i l l   a n d  a Visiting Professor at the University of Gothenburg He joined NASA Ames in late 2000 


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


