Retrospective Cued Recall: A method for accurately recalling previous user behaviors  Daniel M. Russell Google 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View, CA 94043 drussell@google.com Mike Oren Iowa State University 1620 Howe Hall, Ames, IA 50011 moren@iastate.edu  Abstract  A common problem in many user studies is gathering natural user behav ior unintrusively over a long period of time.  We describe a methodology for conducting passive longitudinal studies, where the 
participant is able to go about their daily routine without taking any disruptive action such as writing a diary entry or responding to an interruption. Although passive user observations have been done through log analysis, our retrospective cued recall \(RCR\ method recorded participant screens over a month long period linked to logged trigger events, allowing for a later review that was is guided by retrospective recall as cued by the images of screen captures.  We find this method of gathering user behaviors to be remarkably accurate, despite fairly lengthy delays between action and recall 1. INTRODUCTION 
Traditional longitudinal study techniques tend to be event driven using event triggered diary entries and interviews or log data analysis. However, log data analysis does not provide insights into user motivations nor are logs capable of providing context about what a user did before, during or after. Diary studies and interviews, however, are difficult to sustain for a long period of time since they rely on participant motivation which tends to lag as the study continues. [1 
Furthermore, diaries and interviews tend to focus on specific events and tasks and therefore limit observations to the specific tasks or events, which is not ideal for studying behaviors where users are passively watching or infrequently interacting, instead of actively interacting. For cases where observations around quiet user behavior is desired and researchers are interested in the context and motivations of participants in a study the current longitudinal study methods are insufficient In this paper, we describe an active logging tool 
and a methodology for conducting logging-based longitudinal studies that solve many of the problems of current longitudinal study techniques.  This method is particularly useful when it comes to the need for consistent user motivation and the ability to observe the context of user activity that is not triggered by an event or task We report on the outcome of two studies: the first study reports on the methods used to gather data in a situation that had previously been difficult to track passive use of a particular web page feature.  The 
second study summarizes our experiences in measuring the accuracy and quality of participant recollections when being retrospectively cued for their past behaviors 2. CONTRIBUTIONS AND BENEFITS We present a simple method to support recall of earlier situations and events. This noninvasive method improves recall, helping track and understand activities that are not event triggered by captured image assisted recall WHAT DO USERS DO WHEN YOU RE NOT THERE While in-lab usability studies are effective at 
discovering some kinds of UI use patterns, it is notoriously difficult to track the long-term behavior of users in the wild.  [13 cialized track ing dev i ces   diary or interruption studies all m ateria ll y  affect user behavior by continually reminding the user that their behavior is being tracked and monitored Our approach is to take advantage of human s well-known ability to visually recognize images particularly images of an environment \(the computer screen\at have been created as part of the normal 
course of work.  [4 T h is h u m a n abilit y to recall situational information when retrospectively cued by imagery obtained at the time is the key to this method These images, especially when used during poststudy interviews with the participants, can give an improved view into what was happening in the actual setting of use with nearly imperceptible intrusion Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 3.  PREVIOUS WORK There is a long tradition of using photos of key events to cue retrospective memories.  Collier [20 is  mostly closely associated with the photographic technique in anthropology settings, when photos are used as prompts and foils to elict memories and context around some circumstance.  While van Gog  on the tradeoffs involved in using concurrent vs retrospective reporting of problem solving behaviors ending with the observation that a retrospective recall is often preferred to avoid interfering with the problemsolving process as it occurs The key insight that images can be used for HCI recollection purposes as well can be seen in the work of Van House [19 a n d I n tille  2 1   a ltho ugh t h e s e  a nd  other similar systems\ capture images of the world context, and do not provide the internal tracking of events in the user s experience of the online world Many systems have been built to quietly log user events over time for later analysis.  These range from the obvious web behavior logging analysis systems to client-side tooling that records user behavior in high resolution from the user s perspective Perhaps the system closest to our approach is LogViewe at log s  u s er e v ents a n d s c reen images in web behavior for later analysis.  LogViewer also creates a tree analysis to track which clicks generate which subsequent web page views.  Their data was primarily intended to facilitate the tracing of user behavior how many times was the back button used how user navigation is organized in terms of landmarks pages, etc.  They also interviewed their participants, but with a focus on gathering contextual information to aid in their application redesign purposes 17 h a s a lo g g i n g s y s t e m  b u ilt in to a b e sp o k e browser \(a modification of Internet Explorer\at allowed the user to label their own behavior as they completed  tasks.  As with all systems of this kind, the presence of the logging system is hard to ignore, and Kellar points out that there is good evidence that users modified their behavior because of its presence.  This system was also used as an object of discussion, but again, the focus was on accurately labeling sequences of behaviors, rather than using the event log as a cue for recollection of overall behavior Other loggers su ev e n ts f o r later  analysis and are intended to support navigation and information browsing behavior analysis.  Please s  for a complete summary of many such tools developed for tracking and logging web behavior to improve usability analysis 4.  IE Capture: Client-side behavior logging We developed a plug-in module for Microsoft s Internet Explorer \(IE Capture\re every browser click, event and page view. \(Figure 1\. When the browser s pageload-complete event fires, IE Capture takes a screenshot of the entire working display space there are options for capturing the entire screen or just the Internet Explorer window\apture runs quietly in the background, building up a log of all browser actions \(page views and click events\ action linked to a matching screen capture.  These screenshots are then reviewed with the participant and are often used in conjunction with diary entries to get a complete understanding of user motivations and behaviors Privacy issues To address privacy concerns, IE Capture also has a blacklist where participants are free to add any URLs they wish to exclude from being captured. The blacklist works by checking to see if any of the string in the blacklist are contained anywhere in the current URL, if the word appears then no screenshot is captured   Figure 1. The IE Capture plug-in control in Internet Explorer provides an interaction point for participants to activate / deactivate logging The blacklist works by checking to see if any of the string in the blacklist are contained anywhere in the current URL, if the word appears then no screenshot is captured. For example, if https appears in the blacklist and a participant goes to any secured webpage vis the HTTPS protocol, then no screenshots of that page are captured. In addition, all screenshots are stored locally on the participant s machine and they are given the location of the files so they are free to review and edit them before the researcher performs a field study to collect the screenshots and interview the participant Participants were also given the option of temporarily disabling the screen capture software whenever they want to browse the Internet without generating screen capture logs In addition, since there was no need in this study to capture all Internet activity of the participants especially when capturing based on download complete which is triggered whenever any single element on a page completes loading\, the blacklist was augmented with a whitelist, in hopes that this would also help ease any privacy concerns. The whitelist specifies the substrings of URLs that would be captured, so the whitelist could contain google.com  while the blacklist would contain mail With this Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


specification, IE Capture would capture anything with google.com in the URL string except for mail.google.com \(GMail   Figure 2. IE Captureês privacy options With these revisions to IE Capture, we were able with the user s explicit permission to track all useful and appropriate web-based browser interaction on the participant s machine In addition, since the study was done as a remote study \(meaning that researchers could not visit the home of participants to collect the screenshots and logs a short Python script was written that zipped up all participant screenshots and e-mailed them to the researchers. The script was converted to an executable file so participants did not have to download and install Python and the files were only zipped up and e-mailed out when the participant manually ran the program \(so they were free to review the images before screenshots were sent out 4. STUDY #1: TRACKING PASSIVE BEHAVIOR Using IE Capture, one of the authors developed a longitudinal study to explore how users of a personalized homepage product make use of its current capabilities.  A second goal was to uncover any discoverability issues that may not be as apparent in a lab study. A personalized homepage is a difficult thing to study, as it is a web page where users leave it up in a kind of background mode, collecting information throughout the day, and only interacting with the page infrequently.  As a consequence, traditional longitudinal study techniques such as diaries were ruled out because of their heavyweight nature: manually recording interactions during quickly occurring events that are lightweight by nature seems a recipe for disaster. Log data analysis was conducted as a preliminary first step but it did not provide information regarding user motivation and was thus very incomplete Study #1 Design For this study, twelve participants were recruited into three different groups. The groups were divided based on how long participants had been active users of the personalized homepage \(those who had never visited the site, those who had been active users for over two weeks but less than three months, and active users for more than three months\with each group containing four participants. All participants were remote participants. Participants were divided along these lines to separate users into the user groups of novice, intermediate, and expert users of the personalized homepage. This allowed us to compare the experience between these different user levels All participants were scheduled for a total of four interviews over a period of one month. Participants were asked to install and run IE Capture on their computer for the entire month-long duration of the study. One to two days before each weekly participant interview, the participants were sent an e-mail reminding them to run the program to upload the screen capture data.  This was a simple operation, usually requiring only a double-click with no more intervention Conducting the study The first interview with participants consisted of a one hour background interview with the participants where they were asked about their current homepage whether they had ever changed their homepage, and some questions regarding their current use of the personalized homepage and features that they use. If a participant had never used the personalized homepage before, they were asked whether or not they were aware of any personalized homepages, if they knew if the creator of the personalized homepage product had personalized homepage offering, and how they would find it. After discovering the personalized homepage new users were asked about their initial impressions and asked to make it their own while explaining what they were doing and why In each later interview, after receiving the screenshots from participants we reviewed the log and screenshots, taking notes regarding user activities. We were able to find out when users were on the personalized homepage, when they accessed the page roughly how long they left the page open \(since screenshots were taken on download complete and all participants had at least one gadget on their page that updated every few minutes\hich portions of the page they looked at, etc. Often, participants performed other activities on their computer while using the personalized homepage, and we were able to observe these activities since anything placed on top of Internet Explorer was captured by the screenshot taken by IE Capture. Furthermore, even with the whitelist as opposed to the blacklist, we were able to observe a single screenshot of sites participants visited after the personalized homepage when they clicked on links within the personalized homepage. These activities were then compiled and written as interview questions Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 so that the participant motivations could be better ascertained Many of the activities obtained through the use of IE Capture, such as leaving the personalized homepage open in the background while watching a video browsing other web sites, etc. could not have been obtained through diary studies where such entries would have been tedious for par ticipants to record. While participants would have been able to inform us that they left the personalized homepage open while performing other tasks on their computer, they would not have been able to give us the same level of details as we were able to obtain through screen captures. Furthermore, much of the personalized homepage activity was passive with participants checking the page periodically to check on updates to news feeds, e-mail, etc. and information about this would have eluded us had we used standard longitudinal study techniques Lessons learned: Pragmatics We initially encountered problems when recruiting for this study since potential participants raised privacy concerns due to the use of IE Capture. In the future, we think providing potential participants with a FAQ detailing the steps we have taken to help ensure their privacy, such as the whitelist and the fact that they can review the screenshots before sending them to us In addition, we learned that the initial version of the program that uploaded the logs and screenshots had some shortcomings \(it didn't split the screenshots into smaller chunks if the zip files were over 20 MB, so the users had to manually split the files up into subfolders These shortcomings were later fixed but the lack of this feature prevented us from obtaining the screenshots in as timely a manner as we would have liked. In general it was wise to make the program as smart as possible to prevent the user from needing to take any action beyond running the program to send the log as participant technical abilities varied widely Despite stressing the point that participants should use the personalized homepage the way they normally would, several participants \(3 of the 12\mented on feeling bad if they had not used the personalized homepage much during the week or had not used certain features. This change in usage was problematic as, at times, it seemed to provide an artificial view of the participants personalized homepage usage. Since the participants were contacted every few days, this reminding effect may be countered by having participants go through the study for a longer period of time before talking to a researcher.  In such cases, the best outcome is to encourage a low profile and have them "forget" about \(or at least not notice\eir participation in the experiment.  The goal, after all, is to encourage natural use. Without having a longer period of time between interviews, the only way to counter this is to simply be aware of it and try to discover any changes in participant activity by paying attention to their activity patterns and asking them about abnormalities in their usage. However, this is a particular problem for new users as they do not often have a "normal" routine with the personalized homepage, so countering this problem with new users can only be countered by either interviewing them less often or continually stressing that they should just use it like they would if they were not part of the study Several participants used the personalized homepage on more than one computer. For some of these participants, we might have been able to get them to install IE Capture on their other computer \(but in some cases that was a work computer\ alternative to multiple installations of IE Capture would have been giving users some way of entering in diary entries however, we felt diary entries would be inappropriate as there is no specific triggering event and participants tended to keep the personalized homepage up-something that would not be captured properly through diary entries Method Benefits Ease of use leads to participant retention Out of the twelve participants recruited for this study, only one participant ended up dropping out before the completion of this month long study. This represents a 8.3 dropout rate, which given the length of the study we felt was very good and far below our estimated 25 dropout rate that we had planned into the recruiting. We feel this low dropout rate is in large part due to the ease of participation in the study Richer log content simplifies analysis In addition to the low dropout rate of participants, this method also helped the researchers analyze the data. Whereas traditional diary studies require reading through and parsing pages of printed entries that are obtained either on field visits to the participant or through the mail, this technique allowed us to quickly go through visual entries which could quickly be sifted through and analyzed for trends. This visual analysis was much faster and easier than reading through pages of diary entries, plus because the screenshots were what the participant actually saw we did not have to worry about inaccuracies due to participant memories While other new techniques such as online and mobile diary entry provide researchers with ways of actively monitoring diary entries these techniques still rely on participants to report their activity, and participants may not always report all activity Using IE Capture researchers do not have to rely on participants to determine and report the activities they deem to be important. Instead, all activity is recorded and the researcher can go through it and discuss the motivations with the participant. This allows for more Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


accurate and more complete record of participant activity than is available from other longitudinal study techniques Cueing works well To learn about user motivations, we asked the participants what made them decide to take certain actions \(while reminding them of the context of the action, based on the logs\ch as before looking for additional content to add. We noticed that looking at the screen image while they were answering the question made them much more confident about their answers.  When asked about why they chose to add particular content to the page after browsing or searching for it as opposed to other options they looked at, participants would often comment I remember this while looking at the screen image Participants were also asked if content they added had met their expectations and met the needs or desires they had before looking for new content. If a participant had looked at content, but ultimately did not add any content or did not keep the content they had added, she was asked what was missing from the content options available.  Again, the visual cueing worked very well   Tracking tacit behaviors and the lack thereof One piece of crucial information we were able to obtain from this study was information about user abandonment. Two of the participants in the new user  group ended up abandoning the personalized homepage during the course of the study. We were able to determine this since the log data indicated that they were only on the personalized homepage for a few minutes on the day we sent them an e-mail asking them to send the screenshots of their usage. Participants were reluctant to discuss their abandonment of the personalized homepage and we feel it is unlikely we would have caught this abandonment had we done a traditional longitudinal study where participants report their own usage since we feel they would have been unlikely to report their abandonment of the product. In addition, by discovering this abandonment before the end of the study, we were able to develop questions for the final interviews in order to get a better understanding of their reason for abandoning the product.  This would have been extremely difficult to do if we were looking through diary entries in their presence and the trends may not have been as obvious Furthermore, with most diary studies lasting 2-3 weeks on average due to high drop out rates beyond that period, the abandonment of the personalized homepage would likely have been imperceptible in a traditional diary study. We were only able to begin to observe the abandonment on the third week and if we only had the data collected from the first three weeks, we would have assumed the participant had just been busy during the third week.  This critical information was only attainable because we were able to observe first hand through screenshots the participants activity on the page over an extended period of time Study #1 Summary This study was rewarding.  We found that monthlong longitudinal studies are not only possible, but also fairly straightforward, even when the participants are as in this study\ remote.  It became clear that the visual examination of the screenshots \(particularly when seen in their original event sequence\were acting as powerful retrospective cues for the participants Furthermore, because the data collection process was essentially invisible, we had reason to believe that much of the behavior was genuinely uninfluenced by the presence of our instrumentation But we were left with a question: How accurately were participant able to recall their behaviors?  Were the stories and memories accurate?  Or were they generated in response to our questions, with the potential for falseness  5.  STUDY #2: HOW GOOD ARE THE MEMORIES An important question is whether or not our participants could actually accurately recall the circumstances of their use of the individualized home page To find out how well people could remember their past behaviors from a retrospective-cue such as that provided by IE Capture, we performed a second study Study #2 Design In this study, we recruited 8 participants, \(5 women, 3 men; ages 25 to 46; all with advanced education, but not computer scientists or HCI professionals\. All were located nearby so we could interview them in person at the end of data collection period.  At the beginning of the 7-day experimental run an experimenter installed IE Capture on their personal computer \(no shared computers allowed\nd let it run for 7 days.  At the end of that time, the experimenter would return to hold a structured interview in the location and context in which the web browsing behaviors took place.  The participants were not told the object of the study, but simply that we were studying home computer use All of the participants were screened to be web search users \(of at least 3 searches per week The interview was structured to ask a specific set of questions about the participant s web searching behavior.  In all cases, participants had many more than 3 searches in the week of study \(range: 6 37 searches in the week of study Interview questioning procedure At the beginning of the interview, the experimenter would choose 3 evenly spaced queries in the session log 2 days back before the interview, 4 days back and 6 days Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 back then visit those pages in the log with IECaptureViewer, our tool to view and scrub through the data logs and screenshots.  \(See Figure 5 for the log viewing tool used.\happened, all participants but one had searches on days 2, 4 and 6.  In the one missing case, the next prior search event was used \(substituting day 3 for day 4 For each of the days in question, the experimenter would jump to the first search query made on that day and show it to the participant.  \(Note that jumping to the screen image in question was important, as to avoid showing the participant later screen images that would have shown them the sequence of events The experimenter then asked the participant to describe what happened next in the search process  The participant was instructed to describe the next event if they felt reasonably confident that they knew what happened While the participant was not prompted for a particular kind of answer, we noted possible variations on their answer. Was the search successful with this query alone?  Did the participant have to continue searching after this point in time? If they continued, did they have to continue refining the current query or do something else entirely?  This free form question made it easy to assess whether or not the participant could recall the situation at all If the participant could not recall, then the experimenter would go forward in time, replaying one event image after another until the participant could recollect what was going on and was able to predict what the next search event would be We were measuring the participant s ability to speak accurately about the next major event in their search process.  That is, having cued their retrospective memory of an event, we measured their ability to recall the next step in the process.  In nearly all cases, the judgment by the research was clear and evident: either the participant could accurately predict what was coming up in the log, or they just couldn t say.  Rarely did a participant guess and feel confident Results For each participant we had two measures the number of correct predictions based on a cued recall, and the number of times they had to go to the next-page before they could recollect what was going on in the search As can be seen in Figure 3, seven of the eight participants could accurately predict the next search event after two days.  That s not terribly surprising given that searches are relatively infrequent \(in this participant pool, the average number of searches / week was 11\ search done two days ago is relatively recent and stands out by its relative rarity among the total number of web events However, as we tested farther into the past \(4 days and 6 days out\t recall was still quite good Even after nearly a week, participants were able to recall the next search event correctly 75% of the time With the additional prompting of advancing to the next page in their cached screenshots using the IE Capture Viewer, participants can recall accurately after seeing only 3 additional screen images taken from the log/screen files   Figure 3. The number of correct next event predictions drops after 2 days, but is still at 75 correct It was clear during the interviews that participants really could recollect not just the next event, but also how this search fit into the larger story of what was going on at the time.  Even after 6 days, participants were able to not just make a prediction about the next event, but also complete the story and say whether or not the entire task \(of which search was just a part\was successful or not 6.  DISCUSSION In Study #1 we discovered that the use of IE Capture enabled our participants to richly and confidently talk about events that happened in the course of their web use.  Even the absence of certain kinds of events, such as the diminution in the use of a particular feature, was available for discussion and introspection Intriguingly, during the interviews, participants seemed able to speak with assurance about what had happened even quite a while ago.  But questions about the accuracy of the recalled memories kept worrying us That concern led to Study #2 and an attempt to measure the accuracy of the recollections  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 Figure 4. As the time since last search increases, the average number of next-pages needed to correctly recall the next search event increases Note that even after 6 days, only 3 next-pages are needed to get to completely accurate recall  As became quickly clear, participants were not only able to make accurate predictions about particular events for which they had not been pre-conditioned to attend, but that it was the presence of the cueing screen images that was causing the effect.  More than one participant commented on the inclusiveness of the screen images: because they could often see other windows in the background \(the corner of the Excel spreadsheet, say\ those tiny peripheral context cues would give them a distinct sense of time, activity and place.  [1  A particularly difficult part of the protocol described here is that the recollection process begins on the first query in a search session.  While beginning on the initial query makes the questions unambiguous, it also requires that the participant remember the context that leads up to the query as cued by that single instance.  In our next trials, we plan on backing up two or three pages in order to give our participants a bit more of the temporal context as a way of improving recall even more One possible confound that we noted \(but were luckily able to avoid in this study\ was the potential for confusion over repeated searches.  As others have noted  repeate d s earch es are f a irl y co m m o n W h en  w e  were selecting queries from the participant s log, we took care to avoid queries that had been repeated, as it would be difficult for the participant to reconstruct what happened on that particular instance of the search \(as opposed to other instances within the past few days In the course of our studies, we have actually run many more participants than we tested for this paper.  To date, we now have experience with more than 30 participants, and have been struck both by how well people remember their previous search history when retrospectively cued.  Without cueing or just by cueing with web log history entries, recollection is very low after one day We have also been impressed by the discovery in Study #2 that participants seem to forget about the presence of the IE Capture logger after about four days As we noted in Study #1, people do seem to slightly modify their behavior within the first 3 to 4 days after installation.  There is also compensatory behavior after being reminded of its presence, as when the participant manually causes an upload event to occur Few people disabled IE Capture after it was initially turned on.  This suggests both that participants did not find it to be invasive and that its performance did not affect machine behavior substantially.  In fact, in one memorable instance, we discovered IE Capture was still running in the background of one participant s computer 90 days after the experiment.  Before turning it off, we took advantage of the situation to do a study of 30, 60 and 90 day post recollections and then going through the same protocol as before.  We repeated the experimental design from above, locating searches done 30, 60 and 90 days in the past.  Surprisingly, we found that our participant could recall many of the search events from as long as 90 days ago, albeit with many more next-page looks at the surrounding context.  In each case, after looking at a few surrounding pages, the participant would exclaim oh yes that search and then proceed to describe the rest of the session fairly accurately This unexpected anecdote gives us confidence that memories for the relatively recent past, say within the past week or two as measured in our studies can be relied upon as a source of correct behavioral information 7.  CONCLUSION Using a lightweight, passive longitudinal study method for capturing screenshots with log data, then conducting later interviews using the screenshots as retrospective cues, we were able to collect accurate contextual information from participants with little effort on their part. Participant dropout rates also seem to be lower than traditional longitudinal studies. From a researcher perspective, the data analysis can be completed more quickly and the recollections of the participants are fairly certain to be accurate While the results of this logging method are promising, privacy concerns for participants make it a bit more difficult to recruit for studies. While we have had reasonably good experience in recruiting participants, we have had to be very clear in explaining what is happening and the data retention policies.  These privacy concerns must be kept in consideration when recruiting participants to ensure proper lead team for recruitment and that any potential participants are properly briefed on the data being collected Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 Once explained clearly, the use of the screenshot logger and the retrospective cued recall method seems promising as a way of quietly collecting longitudinal behavioral data accurately 8.  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We would like to thank Cindy Yepez for her help and efforts in recruiting participants for the study. In addition we would like to thank the participants of this study 9.  REFERENCES  l ackw ell A  J o n e s, R Milic-Fra y li ng N. a n d K Rodden, Combining Logging with Interviews to Investigate Web Browser Usage in the Workplace Position paper for workshop Usage analysis: Combining Logging and Qualitative Methods, ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(ACM CHI 2005 April 2005  i, E. H., P i rolli, P P itk o w J   The scent of a site A system for analyzing and predicting information scent usage, and usability of a web site in Proc. CHI 2000 ACM Press, pp 161-167.  \(2000  d t, J Weis s  H an d Kle m m e r, S txt 4l8r Lowering the Burden for Diary Studies Under Mobile Conditions. CHI 07, April 23-May 3, 2007, San Jose California  er, W  F.: W h at i s a u tobiog raph ical m e m o r y  In D. Rubin \(Ed.\tobiographical Memory \(pp. 25-49 Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1986  r ew er, W  F Qu a litati ve an al y s i s o f t h e recall s of randomly sampled autobiographical events. In M. M Gruneberg, P. E. Morris, & R. N. Sykes \(Eds.\ractical Aspects of Memory: Current Research and Issues \(Vol. 1 pp. 263-268\. Chichester: Wiley, 1988  Gh as s a n A l Q ai m a ri an d Darren  McR o s tie. K A L D I: A computer-aided usability engineering tool for supporting testing and analysis of humancomputer interaction. In J Vanderdonckt and A. Puerta, editors, Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Computer-Aided Design of User Interfaces \(CADUI'99\recht, October 1999. Louvain-la-Neuve, Kluwer  o J  Con t ex t T r ig g e red Visu al Episodic Memory Prosthesis, Proceedings of the International Symposium on Wearable Computing, Washington, DC October 2000, pp. 185  ory M. Y., M  A  Hear s t  T h e State of t h e A r t in Automated Usability Evaluation of User Interfaces ACM Computing Surveys, v 33, n 4, pp. 470-516 \(2001  n i avsky  M Observing the User Experience:  A practioner s guide to user research Morgan Kaufman 2003  Jon e s  R Milic-Fra y li ng  N., R odden  K., Blackw e l l  A.: Contextual Method for the Redesign of Existing Software Products , International Journal of HumanComputer Interaction, Vol. 22, No. 1-2, Pages 81-101 2007  L a m m i n g  M., Brow n  P C a rter K., El dridg e, M  Flynn, M., Louie, G., Robinson, P., & Sellen, AJ. \(1994 The design of a human memory prosthesis. Computer Journal, 37\(3\, 153-163  i e m a n J  T h e D i ar y  St u d y   A W o rk place Oriented Research Tool to Guide Laboratory Efforts. In Proceedings of CHI: ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems pp. 321-26, 1993 13 Russell D M  Gr i m e s  C  Assigned and selfchosen tasks are not the same in web search Proceedings of the 40th Annual International Conference on Systems Software, HICSS 2007, Kona, Hawai i, \(2007  Roedig er, H.L   McDer m ott, K.B Creatin g f a l s e  memories: Remembering words that were not presented in lists. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning Memory and Cognition. 21, 803-814 \(1995   T eev an J   T h e re:s ear ch eng i n e Helpi n g people  return to information on the Web. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology \(UIST 05\A \(2005  on B.A Ev a n s  J.J., E m s l ie, H  Mal i n e k  V  Evaluation of NeuroPage: a new memory aid. Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry, 63, 113-115 1997  C   Sh ep h e rd, M. A Goalbased Classification of Web Information Tasks.Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, , Austin, TX. \(ASIS&T\ \(2006  i och i A   C Hid, D A stu d y o f co m p u t er s u pported  user interface evaluation using maximal repeating pattern analysis.  Proceedings of ACM CHI 91, pp 301-305 1991  Hou s e N. Interv ie w Viz: V i s u alizatio n Ass i sted  Photo Elicitation. Ext. Abstracts CHI 2006, ACM Press pp.1463-8.  \(2006  C o llier, J Vis u al An t h r opolog y  P h otog raphy  As a Research Method. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New York 1967  tille, S. S. , C. K u kla, an d X. Ma E liciting us er  preferences using image-based experience sampling and reflection," in Proc. CHI '02 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY ACM Press, pp. 738-739. \(2002  a n Gog et. al U n c ov ering t h e Problem S ol v i ng Process: Cued Retrospective Reporting Versus Concurrent and Retrospective Reporting, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, v11 n4 p237-244 Dec 2005  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


    Figure 5. IE Capture ViewerÑa tool for reviewing the participantês log and screen images for discussion and retrospective cuing.  The participantês screen image is visible in the center of the display, with the stack of windows present at the time of screen capture, an essential part of cueing for long-term recall.  The lists on the right hand side are for quickly moving among the log events and captured images for discussion purposes with the participant  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


for the Rock Abrasion Tool RAT and science support for Mission Operations on the Mars 03 mission Currently Dr Anderson is the Investigation Scientist for the Sample Acquistion  Sample Processing and Handling subsystem on the Mars Science Laboratory He works closely with the FIDO rover team and is presently the Science Team lead on the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System OASIS project Dr Anderson's research is centered on unraveling the geologic history of Mars Brian Bue a Research Programmer in the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory he is now working on his Ph.D in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Rice University He received his M.S in Computer Science at Purdue University and a B.S in Computer Science and a B.A in Mathematics from Augsburg College in Minneapolis MN His research interests include knowledge-based vision and image processing machine learning pattern recognition scientific visualization remote sensing and applications in planetary science andphysics Michele Judd P.E OASIS Research Manager and senior technical staff member of JPL's Science Division Ms Judd received her B.S in Petroleum Engineering from Stanford University and her M.L.A from Southern Methodist University She has been the Technical Task Manager of the QuakeSim Project and the SERVOGrid Project She has twice chaired the JPL Research and Technology Development Poster Session A nationally certified Quality Manager and licensed Professional Engineer Ms Judd has over 20 years of experience in project management both within JPL andfor Mobil Oil 11 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, ìA Fortran-to-C Converter,î Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, ìAnalyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,î tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of LiËge Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in LiËge for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f LiËge in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollob·s, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSSí03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et MathÈmatiques AppliquÈes de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


