Fast Talking, Fast Shooting: Text Chat in an Online First-Person Game   Susan C. Herring, Daniel O. Kutz, John C. Paolillo, and Asta Zelenkauskaite Indiana University, Bloomington herring,dokutz,paolillo,azelenka}@indiana.edu   Abstract   How actively do users chat, with whom, about what, and how coherently, when they are shooting enemies and dodging bullets in a fast-paced virtual gaming environment? This paper reports on a study of public text chat in BZFlag, an open source capturethe-flag game in which user avatars are tanks. Chat data were analyzed using methods of content and dis 
course analysis, including analyzing the coherence of extended conversations. The findings reveal that public chat is used actively in BZFlag, primarily to react to and negotiate game play, and that extended conversations occur intermittently and are surprisingly coherent. Implications are discussed for multitasking, classifying multiplayer online games, and enhancing the chatability or chat usability, of first-person shooter game designs  1. Introduction  In recent years, multiplayer online games \(MOGs have generated much popular and scholarly interest [3 15, 18, 19 of te n a llo w us ers to ch at du ri ng play, either via voice or, more commonly, synchronous text. However, while a number of studies have com 
mented on this phenomenon, it has rarely been their focus, with the result that the uses and characteristics of MOG chat remain largely unexplored MOG chat deserves study for a number of reasons First, it is a type of convergent media computermediated communication computer-mediated communication \(CMC\hat takes place in a convergent media format in which it is secondary, by design, to other information or entertainment-related activities  In th e cas e of MOG ch at, th e prim a r y act i v i t y i s  game play; MOGs are designed first and foremost with 
that in mind. Focusing squarely on the chat aspect rather than game design or game play can provide a revealing lens through which to understand CMC more generally, as well as suggesting design improvements from a CMC perspective that may be less obvious from a game design perspective Relatedly, playing a game and chatting at the same time involves multitasking, or media coactivity 2  which two or more synchronized or coordinated media are used simultaneously or in alternation. How users distribute their attention across media content, espe 
cially in MOGs in which game play is fast-paced and continuous, can shed light on how multitasking works and what devices and platforms best facilitate it These considerations are especially relevant for text chat that takes place in first-person online multiplayer games of the type commonly called first-person shooters FPS\his game type can be distinguished from massively multiplayer online role-playing games MMORPGs\ a number of dimensions, one of which, we propose, is the nature of the chat that takes 
place in them. While chatting in MMORPGs has attracted some scholarly attention th e  uses and characteristics of chat in first-person online multiplayer games are less well understood. How actively do users chat, with whom, about what, and how coherently, when they are shooting enemies and dodging bullets in a fast-paced virtual gaming environment To begin to address these questions, we report on an analysis of public text chat conversations in BZFlag an open source capture-the-flag type game in which user avatars are tanks and text chat is the only in-game communication option. Methods of textual content and 
discourse analysis, supplemented with reference to game play in the 3D graphical environment, are used to analyze chat logs from two kinds of league play The results reveal that public chat is used actively in BZFlag, primarily to react to and negotiate game play. These uses of chat reflect the fast pace of the first-person shooter, which requires players to focus on the game at all times. As such, they contrast with the findings of previous studies of MMORPGs, in which chat was reportedly used for creating and maintaining social relationships [15, 20   a d ve r t i s i ng o r ne go t i a t i n g  
serv en tdri v e n learn i ng 16]. Yet although most BZFlag chat is not interactive, it is social in nature, and extended chat exchanges occur intermittently that are surprisingly coherent, especially in active games with larger numbers of players. These findings show that sociability can be achieved even when attentional resources are severely taxed, and suggest that socializing can be a motivation for multitasking Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


In concluding, the implications of these findings for situating FPS chat in relation to other modes of convergent media CMC and for multitasking research are considered. We advance several design recommendations for enhancing the chatability or chat usability, of MOGs such as BZFlag, arguing that the traditional CMC design desideratum of persistence is less useful for fast-paced environments than interface designs that optimize the efficient management of attention across multiple, dynamically-changing content areas  2. Background  2.1. BZFlag game overview  BZFlag \(short for Battle Zone capture the Flag\a multiplayer online first-person shooter game in which players navigate tanks, from a first-person person perspective, across a playing field, referred to as a map. A map can support up to 200 players and four separate teams; however, games usually involve around 30 players divided between two teams. Game play broadly consists of eliminating players from the opposing team a task that is typically part of an overarching game objective, such as capturing an opposing team s flag and returning it to one s own team. To assist in this goal, players can pick up superflags flags that are scattered across the map and provide special powers such as better weapons or faster movement speed Unlike FPSs such as Doom  Counter-Strike  Jedi Knight II and Quake BZFlag is open source. Players can not only download and play the game for free, they can also view and submit changes to the source code The maps on which game play takes place are also developed by players; they vary in thematic content from traditional venues \(such as a forest\whimsical venues such as outer space or a person s home. Upon logging into the game, one can choose from hundreds of servers and maps, but participants tend to congregate around a handful of servers that contain maps that have become player favorites over time BZFlag was first released publicly in 1993 and has been continuously updated since. Currently, there are more than 11,000 registered players on forums and more than 200 servers running continuously, although most interaction takes place on 10 to 20 servers. Some dedicated players have formed leagues with established game play rules and maps. Play in leagues emphasizes the use of skills and map knowledge, usually identified through strategic positioning and the use of ricochet shots which rely on the geometry of objects on the playing field to direct bullets around obstacles to predictable destinations Game play requires the player to divide his attention \(most BZFlag players are male\ among six different dynamic areas of the screen. These are circled and numbered in Figure 1, which shows a screenshot of the playing field on one map. Navigation is accomplished by moving one s mouse within the square central mousebox 4\whose outer edges are scales indicating the player s current position and orientation. In the lower left corner, a radar screen \(#6\ives a bird s-eye overview of the map and the positions of teammates and opponents. Chat appears at the bottom center of the screen \(#5\g with game play status messages such as recent kills and flags grabbed\The most recent chat and important status messages also appear briefly at the top center of the screen \(#1\ the top left \(#3\dividual player scores are listed \(the player s userID and email are on the right, and various scores in different columns are on the left\while team scores \(flag captures\ appear near the top right \(#2  Figure 1. BZFlag game interface  The BZFlag game design results in a hectic, fastpaced gaming experience. New players find themselves quickly targeted and eliminated in one or two shots by more experienced players. However, player death does not result in elimination for the duration of the game Instead, one only needs to press a mouse button in order to respawn at a randomized starting location with a new tank, ready to re-engage in battle  2.2. Literature review  2.2.1. MMORPGs  Research on chat in online games has focused primarily on massively multiplayer online role-playing games \(MMORPGs\ch as Everquest  Ultima  Online  and World of Warcraft These are computer-generated graphical virtual environments in which a player creates a digital avatar \(called a character\with which s/he interacts with other players characters in a shared space. Content is usually rendered in a third person Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


view, and the environment presents a distinctive theme for example, fantasy or science fiction\ression or advancement in the game is driven by receiving upgrades, items, and new powers on one s characters these upgrades accumulate over game play sessions The attraction of participating in a MMORPG, for many players, is its social nature. Steinkuehler and Williams ok i n g Olde n b u r g  aracteris tics of third places argue that MMORPG environments serve as bridging mechanisms supporting informal sociability, similar to traditional social venues such as bars and coffee shops. Game play in these environments is structured to promote collaboration by providing incentives to work with other participants By participating in brief or extended collaborations players engage in a process of socialization and learning ers  m a y als o ch oos e to participate in  online gaming, drawn to the idea of being alone together as opposed to simply being alon Although MMORPGs are visually and auditorily rich environments, the dominant form of player-toplayer communication is text. Steinkuehl observed that chat utterances in Lineage Online are cryptic and filled with contextual abbreviations. Nardi, Ly and Harris aracterized ch at in  World of Warcraft as playful and enlivened by positive emotional interaction. The scope, quality, and attributes of textual communication in MMORPGs also vary depending on the environment. For example, Ducheneaut and Moore  erv e d th at in  Star Wars Galaxies player chat ranged from advertising, short interactions, and the exchange of services to longer meaningful exchanges depending on the location within the game The above research suggests that the features that unite textual communication in the various MMORPG environments are its promotion of socializing and the creation and maintenance of social ties through ongoing textual communication among participants  2.2.2. First-person shooters  In contrast, the first person shooter \(FPS\enre is characterized by direct competition with other players In each game session, players start out on an equal footing; it is play skill, awareness of the environment and effective teamwork that primarily distinguish experienced players from rookies FPS environments are less persistent than MMORPGs. Once game play in an FPS has finished the world is reset to the state it was in at the start of play, or a new environment \(e.g., playing field\ made available. In contrast, MMORPG worlds are persistent meaning that there is only one environment in which players participate, and this environment can evolve over time based on player actions or other environmental factors programmed by the game designers. This evolution can proceed in phases, by continuously following a game narrative or by responding to player input. In FPSs, in contrast, game play tends to be active, continuous, and focused on a single overall goal As in MMORPGs, chat in FPSs tends to be textual Wright et h eir ex a m in at ion o f creati v e  player action in Counter-Strike identified and coded five general categories of discourse: creative game talk, game conflict talk, insult/distancing talk, performance talk, and game technical/external talk. The predominant categories were game conflict talk \(banning of players, cheat accusations, camping accusations and game performance talk \(related to performance scores, recent kills, and game strategy n i n e n and Kujanp al y zed f o r m s of i n teractio n i n  Battlefield 1942 another FPS. They found that communication primarily takes place via predefined voice and text messages, with text chat used mostly to elaborate on these predefined utterances These studies findings suggest that chatting in FPSs is closely tied to the game itself; the creation and maintenance of social ties and socializing is not as incessant and ubiquitous  in MMO R P Gs Ho w ever, a study of another FPS Jedi Knight II found that socioemotional communication was more frequent than task-based communication reov er, p o sitiv e  socioemotional communication, acting as a tension release, was three times more prevalent than negative socioemotional communication [18  su gge st i n g t h a t  friendly socializing was taking place Relatedly, in a study of cooperation and disruptive behavior in Counter-Strike Hahsler and Koch found that 50% of the logged communication contained emotional content \(either negative or positive Gameplay communication, such as strategy coordination communicated via short utterances, was the second most popular category, making up 25% of the captured player communication One limitation of the available research is that it tends to consider chat utterances essentially as independent units, without analyzing their relation to one another or the overall coherence of chat exchanges. As a consequence, the conversational properties of MOG chat of either type or even the extent to which chat utterances exchanged during game play should be considered conversation remain largely unknown  3. Research question and hypotheses  The overall research question addressed in this study is the following RQ: How actively do players in a in a fast-paced virtual gaming environment chat, with whom, about what and how coherently Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


We hypothesize that time and attentional constraints will affect the nature of chat in BZFlag. Specifically H1: Messages will be short and abbreviated, moreso than in other modes of recreational chat H2: Participation in chat will be limited H3: Most messages will be on themes relating to game play H4: Most chat messages will not respond to any other message, and conversations will be short and fragmented, relative to other modes of recreational chat  4. Methodology  4.1. Data  The data for this study are drawn from Games United \(GU\eague games played on servers hosted by a player named Quol and publicly posted to his server archive website. The GU league is a semiformal association of BZFlag players who organize teams to play official and fun i.e., unofficial matches involving teams of 2 to 20 players on a specific map. GU league rules prohibit superflags, but make use of BZFlag s jumping and ricochet settings. Games are two- or four-team capture the flag mode games only two-team games are analyzed in this study Games are timed, lasting precisely 30 minutes of playing time, although the clock may be paused The GU league has an international player base with especially large numbers of players in Europe and the United States. At the time of our data collection in November 2007, over 2,000 games were available in the archives, dating back to February, 2007. Since the game files are publicly posted, we needed only to set up a server configured to replay saved games in order to view them as many times as desired Use of these data also imposes certain limitations We can only view the games as observers, which means we can only see public chat; admin\(istrator team, and private chat channels are inaccessible Moreover, the data are all from a single game mode and a single map, and GU league games typically involve fewer players than are found on public servers Thus the findings of this study may not generalize to BZFlag games on public servers Two samples of chat were constructed for the purposes of this study. To represent typical GU league game chat, we collected a random sample \(~10%\f all games \(N=378\n a two-month period in fall 2007 and extracted a systematic sub-sample of 25-message sequences from the resulting 37 random games, for a total of 900 messages. This is referred to henceforth as the random sample or random games To represent the most active chat, we collected an exhaustive sample of all active games with 15 or more participants \(N=12 these are referred to henceforth as the active games   4.2. Analytical methods  The chat data were analyzed using methods of content and discourse analysis that drew for their interpretation on game play in the 3D graphical environment We replayed the video logs of the games multiple times, viewing them from different players perspectives, in order to understand what chat utterances were responding to and how they should be interpreted The first two methods involved straightforward structural measures. To determine the complexity of the chat, message and word lengths were measured in the random game sample. It was assumed that short words and short messages, relative to other modes of chat \(such as Internet Relay Chat or social MUDs would indicate a low degree of complexity. To answer the question of how actively players chat, we measured messages per player and per second and compared the results for random and active games To address the question of what players were chatting about, it was necessary to study the video logs of the games, since utterances often addressed game play actions. We employed thematic content analysis to classify and count the main theme of each chat message in a random portion of the random sample. The themes were allowed to emerge from the data. The themes that emerged were: react to game play; negotiate game play; off-game topic; greet; respond to a game play reaction; comment on a technical problem or the technical status of a player; and other The video logs also proved valuable in analyzing the interactivity and coherence of the chat, particularly for the information they provided about timing. Often the difference in coding an utterance as a response to another or not depended on how much time had elapsed between the two utterances: if more than a few seconds, given the fast pace of the game, the utterances were usually unrelated. The percentage of messages that responded to another chat message was first calculated and then compared for random and active games Finally, Dynamic Topic Analysis \(DTA d VisualDTA w e re e m plo y e d to an al y z e an d g r aph i cally display the coherence of the conversations that occurred during the active games. DTA is a method for identifying and quantifying message interrelatedness over time; it visually represents the flow and coherence of online conversations. VisualDTA is a tool that partially automates the generation of DTA diagrams. DTA has been used to visualize other modes of chat [8, 9  i n g  f o r co m p aris ons  w i t h BZFlag c h at  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


5. Results  5.1. Complexity of chat  The chat messages in the random sample are very short: only 1.4 words on average. By way of comparison, in previous studies, recreational \(multi-participant Internet Relay Chat messages were found to average 4 to 6 words d m e s s a g e s in a s o cial MUD a v eraged 6 to 7 words in groups of three or more participants and 10 to 14 words in dyads  Words in the random sample are also short, with an average of 3.5 characters. In previous English chat studies, words average around 4 characters  T h is  may seem like a small difference, but it is not, considering that English words tend to average less than 5 characters even in formal written \(asynchronous\course  Contributing to the brevity of BZFlag chat messages is the frequent use of cryptic abbreviations, many of which are specific to the game. Table 1 is an example of a joking exchange based on the use of game-specific abbreviations for superflags 2   Table 1. Example of a chat exchange Time PlayerID Message 18:39:05 grand slam who has OO 18:39:27 menotume i have sb 18:39:36 grand slam get WG or T 18:39:50 menotume would prefer st  In this example OO stands for oscillation overthruster  a superflag that enables a tank to go through walls sb  stands for superbullets a superflag that allows one to shoot through walls WG means wings and T means tiny both useful superflags to defend against superbullets\d st stands for stealth a superflag that makes one invisible on radar A number of other game-specific abbreviations were noted in non-joking contexts, as well \(see below along with many common CMC abbreviations \(such as lol, omg, brb, thx, afk, wtf gl hf - good luck have fun \(used as a greeting fm - fun match offi - official ns - nice shot cap - \(flag\ture tk - team kill sk - self-kill nr - not responding obs, obsies - observers gg - good game    2 Given that GU league games do not have superflags, this exchange is clearly intended to be humorous The use of abbreviation can be seen as an effective strategy to communicate under extreme time pressure using minimal keystrokes. Thus, while the chat is structurally very simple, it is simple in a strategic way  5.2. Participation in chat   Surprisingly, most players engaged in public chat despite the availability of other chat channels that might serve their teams more effectively \(such as team chat\nd the fact that typing chat messages necessarily takes time and effort away from shooting enemy tanks In the random sample, which averaged 7.8 players per game, 90% of the players posted at least one public chat message. In the active sample, which averaged 16.3 players per game, 84% of the players chatted publicly. The average number of messages posted per chatter was similar in the two samples: 12.7 in the random sample \(range: 1 to 47\ and 12.9 in the active sample range: 1 to 77 messages As regards the rate of chatting activity, in the random sample, a public chat message was posted every 14.8 seconds on average, whereas in the active sample a public message was posted every 10.1 seconds While this may seem slow, most players also chat with their teams and/or privately, in addition to playing the game. Thus, the level of activity in the public chat channel can be considered moderate, with more chatting taking place in games with more participants  5.3. Chat message content  In order to analyze the content of the messages that were posted during game play, thematic analysis of the players' chat was conducted for part of the random sample. Table 2 summarizes the findings  Table 2. Thematic content of chat messages React to game play Negotiate game play Offgame topic Greet Respond to reaction Tech problem status Other Total 156 55 3 18 26 15 2 275 56.7 20 1.1 6.5 9.5% 5.5% 0.7 100  The majority of the messages \(56.7%\ere reactions to game play. This use is illustrated in the sequence in Table 3 3 which is typical. The second most frequent chat content involved negotiation of game play \(20 followed by responses to reactions to game play 9.5%\These uses are described further below   3 Time intervals in Table 3 suggest that most of the reactions were responding to separate game play events \(time stamps were added by the researchers  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Table 3. Examples of reactions to game play 2:46:27 tankzilla works 2:46:54 Ginny oopsa 2:47:36 Ginny rofl 2:47:37 A Vicious Muffin hehe 2:47:54 A Vicious Muffin uh.. \(after G shot A her teammate 2:48:02 A Vicious Muffin lol 2:48:22 tankzilla ROFLMAO 2:48:30 A Vicious Muffin  2:48:31 anteater ops 2:48:36 anteater cool 2:48:36 A Vicious Muffin lol 2:48:37 Ginny wierd 2:48:51 tankzilla nah 2:49:14 A Vicious Muffin gah 2:49:54 A Vicious Muffin harumph 2:51:06 tankzilla smsh 2:51:49 tankzilla oh that sucked  5.4. Extended chat sequences  Despite most chat utterances being one-word exclamations in reaction to game play, longer, interactive sequences of messages also occurred. In the random sample, 40% of messages responded to another message, and thus were at least minimally interactive. In comparison, in the active game with the most interactions, 47% of messages were responses The distribution of extended exchanges in the same active game is shown in the VisualDTA diagram in Figure 2. In the diagram, message numbers \(assigned by the researchers based on chronological order of posting\ are along the y-axis, and the x-axis shows the cumulative semantic distance between messages, manually assigned according to the degree a message relates to the message to which it is logically responding Each message is also labeled for its topical relation to a preceding message: T \(narrowly on-topic\ \(parallel shift\, or B \(break\. By convention, T s always have a semantic distance of 0, and B s always have a distance of 4 from the first message in the sample. Strings of T s or B s thus produce a vertical line, whereas diagonal lines are produced by P s, which can have a semantic distance from 1 to 3, and indicate that topical development is taking place [8 P r ev iou s res earch h a s  shown that coherent conversations in Internet Relay Chat and instant messaging, when visualized in DTA tend to exhibit a diagonal step-wise progression from upper left to lower right [8, 9  In contrast, Figure 2 shows an overall vertical development \(produced largely by reactions to game play, which are mostly B s\his is interrupted by intermittent exchanges, which appear as branching structures \(circled\ the vertical line. The topics of the exchanges are labeled to the right of the diagram   Figure 2. Overview of public chat in an active game  It is notable that the exchanges seem to occur at regular intervals, and that they are approximately the same length \(about 25 messages\uggesting constraints on how much interaction is possible during active game play. Within these constraints, however the exchanges that occur can be surprisingly complex and coherent  Figure 3 shows a close-up of the second exchange labeled negotiating game play in Figure 2. This exchange is notable for the efficiency with which the number of players per team is renegotiated after two players leave the game. Despite the potential confusion caused by three parallel threads \(labeled in Figure 3 game play was resumed with a new team configuration in only 25 messages and approximately one minute this transition was accomplished entirely through chat Note the frequent use of abbreviations in this exchange g2g, brb, gg, 6v6, cu, fm, k  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  Figure 3. A sequence negotiating game play   Another remarkable sequence is shown in Figure 4. While game play is actively ongoing, a player engages with two other players over a period of two minutes regarding living conditions in Switzerland where he is thinking of moving. With the exception of the game play reactions in the background, this conversation is as coherent as any dyadic instant messaging exchange, in that it is continuous and progresses in a diagonal, step-wise fashion h is s e q u en ce is  unique in our data, in that it is the only conversation that is purely social and unrelated to the game    Figure 4. A coherent off-topic sequence  Figure 5. Deviant game with a cheating episode  Another exception is shown in Figure 5. In this active game, a player called The Cookie Monster was caught in an alleged act of cheating, although the nature of the cheat was somewhat ambiguous, and not all of the players saw it happen. A flurry of questions attempts to describe what happened, and accusations followed the initial incident. Predictably, after about 25 chat messages, a player attempted to restart game play the clock had been paused after the suspicious incident\t the restarted game soon encountered a glitch that led to another negotiation, and the same thing happened again shortly thereafter. In the meantime, the cheating incident continued to be discussed, culminating eventually in a string of apologies followed by some silly word play \(which seemed to be an expression of relief\ore game play resumed nearly 100 messages after the original incident This is an exception that proves the rule, in that when the normal pattern reactions to game play interspersed with brief exchanges was disrupted, a seProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


quence of redressive actions followed. Through it all other players attempted to preserve the implicit norm of chat exchanges no longer than 25 messages, and sought repeatedly \(and eventually, successfully\ to return to normal game play  6. Discussion  This study asked how actively users chat, with whom, about what, and how coherently, in one fastpaced FPS gaming environment. The hypotheses and the study s findings are summarized below H1: Messages will be short and abbreviated, moreso than in other modes of recreational chat Strongly supported H2: Participation in chat will be limited Not supported H3: Most messages will be on themes relating to game play Supported H4: Most chat messages will not respond to any other message, and most conversations will be short and fragmented, relative to other modes of recreational chat Partially supported. Stretches of one-off game reactions are periodically interspersed with more coherent, interactive sequences The findings that chat messages are short and abbreviated and that most chat concerns the game itself either as comments on events in the game or negotiation of gameplay reflect the temporal and attentional demands that the game makes on players. It seems that shooting tanks and chatting at the same time is not easy to do. As one long-time BZFlag player emailed to one of the authors I usually play while talking, and I usually get killed while I'm typing However, he went on to add For some reason it doesn't bother me too much - and I've found that the people I'm talking to sometimes get killed while typing too This comment underscores that chatting in BZFlag is an activity that may be enjoyed for social reasons, even when it interferes with effective game play  The social gratifications available through game chat may also explain why players chat publicly as much as they do, even though it gains them little advantage in the game. The player quoted above stated I find it a bit boring to play too much, but the one thing I've really enjoyed is the text chat. With the right people on a map, it can be hilarious  Sometimes hilarity emerges from the exchange of cryptic utterances, as in the example in Table 1. Sometimes one-off reactions to one s own game play \(Table 3\ be a sociable way to be alone together   And sometimes actual conversations take place, which although they tend to be limited in scope, can be engaging and unexpectedly coherent These findings reflect to some extent the specific game play features of BZFlag. One such feature is that when the need to stop game play arises, players must indicate this via the chat interface. For example, if a player wishes to bring another player into the game as a substitute, he announces his intention in the chat interface and asks the other participants to pause their game play. The game is paused when all participants cease ongoing hostilities and remain at their current position in the playing field. This feature provides an incentive for players to monitor the chat display more regularly than they might otherwise, lest they miss this important signal. Regular attention, in turn, helps to explain the relatively high degree of coherence some conversations in BZFlag chat achieve Another feature is that when a player is eliminated he is not removed for the duration of the remaining game; instead he respawns with a new tank. As a result of this, a player is constantly engaged in action and does not have an extended period of free time during which to communicate with his team, the opposition or observers of the game. In other FPSs \(e.g CounterStrike  America s Army yer death results in removal from game play for the remaining duration of the round. This puts a player in observer mode and allows him to view the rest of the match as a spectator, during which time he may engage in conversation with other spectators. The design of BZFlag thus leaves less time than other FPS games for chat, which may contribute to the abbreviated, task-focused character of chat in the game More generally, these differences could account for why our study found less social activity than some other studies of FPS ch e v e r, it is al s o  possible that our results are less different from theirs than they seem. What was coded as socioemotional  communication in other studies appears to be similar to what we coded as game play reactions see Table 3 If so, then the findings of studies of chat in FPSs are in fact quite consistent; taken together, they underscore the need to distinguish systematically between MMORPGs and FPSs in MOG chat research  7. Conclusions  7.1. Implications   In addition to providing evidence that supports a principled distinction between MMORPGs and FPSs which is important for game research, the present study contributes to a small but growing body of research Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


that seeks to understand and classify types of convergent media computer-mediated communication CMCMC\milar to other CMCMC such as comments posted to YouTube and Flickr and text messages sent from mobile phones to interactive television programs \(iTV SMS FP S ch at tak e s place in a v i sually engaging environment in which textual commenting/chat is secondary to the presentation of graphical content. In these environments, CMC consists mostly of one-off comments interspersed periodically with interactive exchanges, in which responses tend to reply to an immediately preceding message. FPS chat differs from other CMCMC, however, in that messages tend to focus on the stated purpose of the site \(the game\her than digressing onto other topics. Public chatting in BZFlag is also more interactive than comments posted to Flickr, YouTube, or iTV SMS. These differences can be attributed to the demanding nature of FPS game play and the smaller \(and thus more manageable\ber of participants in the game environment The study s findings have implications for multitasking research, as well. It has been claimed that the continuous partial attention required by multitasking causes errors due to insufficient attention [11 A c ti v i t y  interruption can also result in frustration and stress  In con t ras t th e BZF l a g res u lts  s ugg es t t h at f o r some users who chat while playing the game, the attention they allocate is largely sufficient for each task. For these successful multitaskers, factors such as youth and experience with the interface may favor success. For others, as suggested by the long-time player quoted above, the social benefits may outweigh the frustration and cost of making errors in game play indeed, a desire for social interaction may be what motivates BZFlag players to play and chat at the same time in the first place. These findings suggest perspectives that could be explored in research on multi-tasking in other, e.g., work, environments [11    7.2. Design recommendations   In a classic treatise on computer game design Crawfo u e d th a t un derl y i n g  techn i cal co n straints and possibilities strongly influence game play design and the resultant player experience. We suggest that the designed game environment also plays a role in shaping the quality and structure of chat discourse, and that chat usability, or chatability should be a design desideratum in MOGs, given that chatting is a major reason some online gamers play Past research suggests that persistent, reviewable text logs can promote interactional coherence in CMC 6 w e v e r, it see m s u n li k e l y th a t  m a k i n g B Z Fla g  chat more persistent would increase its coherence or usability, in that the pace of game play does not allow players to devote much attention to chat, regardless of how it is displayed or preserved 4  In FPSs, what is more important than textual persistence is the arrangement of the interface so as to optimize the efficient management of attention across multiple dynamic content areas. Research on multitasking suggests that gameplay and chat activity should be balanced so that one activity does not interrupt the other, to avoid frustration and stress T h e BZ F l a g  designers have attempted to do this: Chat is displayed next to the radar view, and both are immediately below the mousebox \(Figure 1\s players may keep the three most important areas in focal or peripheral vision at all times. However, the chat interface sometimes serves primarily as a peripheral information device; at those times, it would be helpful to minimize its distraction while maximizing its presentation of information  t oth e r ti m e s  t h e pres e n ce of co h e ren t continuous chat sequences suggests that the chat interface is the main locus of attention and would be better served by a more prominent representation. Enabling a player to toggle the chat interface between a peripheral and prominent state would be one possible solution to meet these variable needs Chat in BZFlag, like other multiparticipant CMC also suffers from disrupted adjacency of messages that are separated spatially from the messages to which they respon d co m m e n t s on  g a m e pla y are s p a tially and \(by the time they are posted\ temporally separated from the game play itself. To provide closer integration of these key activities and reduce the amount of attention shifting that players must do, chat messages could appear \(non-persistently\ above the tanks that posted them, as well as in the chat interface Finally, opportunities for communication without distraction in BZFlag are rare. If the designers of BZFlag wished to create an environment within the game that was conducive to socializing \(which, we argue, could increase the attractiveness of the game environment\hey could establish an area, such as a lobby, where players could congregate before and after games and chat in a more relaxed manner, without having to worry about their gameplay performance  7.3. Limitations and future research   This study examined public text chat in one league in one first-person shooter game. Team chat, private chat, and admin chat were not accessible, yet they are used to coordinate important activities, such as server   4 The BZFlag interface already gives players considerable control over the size of the chat window and the size of fonts, as well as allowing players to filter out different types of messages Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


maintenance and catching and sanctioning cheaters Moreover, game play and chat in the GU league differ from public server play, in that GU league play emphasizes teamwork and cooperation among players over individual prowess, whereas in public server play, individual differences in skill and the advantages of superflags can result in the appearance of unfair advantage, leading to taunting and complaining. These limitations could be addressed by analyzing a wider range of BZFlag activities and contexts Analysis of chat in other MOGs is also necessary in order to test the claim that chat differs systematically in MMORPGs and FPSs. Although the present study was limited to text chat, in-game voice chat is a growing trend in MOGs. Future research should analyze audio conversations, so as to determine the effects of modality on in-game chatting. Other methods, such as eye tracking, could also be used to investigate empirically how user attention is distributed dynamically across features of game interfaces Finally, the methods used in this study could be extended to non-gaming environments in which chat cooccurs with other media use. This would provide a broader comparative base from which to generalize about chat and chatability in coactive media  8. References  1 C h e r ny L  1999 Conversation and community: Chat in a virtual world Stanford, CA: CSLI 2 Crawf o r d  C. \(1 9 8 4   The art of computer game design  Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill  Du ch en eau t N  M o o r e R  J 2 0 0 4   T h e so cial sid e o f  gaming: A study of interaction patterns in a massively multiplayer online game Proceedings of CSCW 2004 NY ACM  Du ch en eau t  N  Yee N  Nickell E   M o o r e R J  2006\. "Alone together?": exploring the social dynamics of massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 5 H a hs le r, M K o c h S. \(20 0 4  p e r a tio n a nd dis r uptive behaviour - Learning from a multi-player internet gaming community. In P. Kommers, P. Isaias, & M. B. Nunes Eds IADIS International Conference Web Based Communities 2004 pp. 35-42\ Lisbon: IADIS 6 Herrin g S. C  1 9 9 9 a  ter actio n a l co h e ren ce i n CMC  Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 4 1 http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol4/issue1/herring.html 7 H e rring S. C  1 99 9b T h e rhe t oric a l dy nam i c s of  g e nde r harassment online The Information Society, 15 3\, 151-167 8 H e r r i ng S. C   200 3 D y nam i c topic a n a l y s is o f sy nchronous chat. In New Research for New Media: Innovative Research Methodologies Symposium Working Papers Minneapolis: U Minn School of Journalism and Mass Comm http://ella.slis.indiana.edu/~herring/dta.2003.pdf 9 H e rring S C K u r t z  A  J  20 06 V i s u a liz ing D y na m ic Topic Analysis Proceedings of CHI 06 NY: ACM  1 Ko K-K 19 96   S t ru ct u r al ch aracteristics o f co m p u t ermediated language: A comparative analysis of InterChange discourse Electronic Journal of Communication, 6 3 http://www.cios.org 11 L o je sk i, K S Re illy R  Dom i nic k P  2 00 7 u ltitasking and innovation in virtual teams Proceedings of HICSS-39 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 12  Ma g lio P P   Ca m pbe ll, C. S 2 0 00 T r a d e o ff s in displaying peripheral information Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  New York: ACM 13 Ma n n i n e n T  K u ja np   T  2005 T h e hunt f o r c o llaborative war gaming - CASE: Battlefield 1942 Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research 5 1\ http://www.gamestudies.org/0501/manninen_kujanpaa 14 Ma rk G G udith, D  K l oc k e U  200 8 h e c o s t of  interrupted work: More speed and stress Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 15 N a rdi, B H a rris  J  2006 ng e r s a nd f r ie nds  Collaborative play in World of Warcraft Proceedings of CSCW 2006 pp. 149-158\ew York: ACM 16 N a rdi, B L y S H a rris   J  20 07 e a r ning c onv e r sations in World of Warcraft Proceedings of HICSS 40 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 17 O l de nb ur g  R   1 9 89  The great good place: Cafes coffee shops, bookstores, bars, hair salons and other hangouts at the heart of a community NY: Paragon Books 18  P e a J   H a nc oc k  J  T  20 06 A n a n a l y s is of s o cioemotional and task communication in online multiplayer video games Communication Research, 33 1\, 92-109 19  Ste i nk ue hle r  C 2 0 06 M a ssiv e l y  m u ltipla y e r online  videogaming as participation in a discourse Mind, Culture and Activity, 13 1\, 38-52 20 Ste i nk ue hle r C W illia m s D. \(200 6 h e r e e v e r y body knows your \(screen\me: Online games as "third places Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 11 4\://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol11/issue4/steinkuehler.html 21 W i k i pe dia  2 0 0 8  J une 15  Coactive media  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coactive_media 22 W r ig ht, T Boria  E Bre ide nba c h  P. \(20 02 Cre a tive player actions in FPS online video games: Playing Counter-Strike Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research, 2 2\ http://www.game studies.org/0202/wright 23  Ze le nk a u s k a ite A  H e rri ng S. C  2 00 8 T e le v i s i onmediated conversation: Coherence in Italian iTV SMS chat Proceedings of HICSS 41 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


