  1 Accurate Spacecraft Angular Position from DSN VLBI Phases using X-Band Telemetry or DOR Tones D. S. Bagri and Walid Majid Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Ins titute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91109 818-393-4317 Durgadas.S.Bagri@jpl.nasa.gov  Abstract 227At present spacecraft angul ar position with Deep Space Network \(DSN\ined using group delay estimates from very long baseline interferometer \(VLBI phase measurements employing differential one way ranging \(DOR\tones. As an alternative to this approach, we propose estimating position of a spacecraft to half a fringe cycle accuracy using time varia tions between measured and calculated phases as the Earth rotates using DSN VLBI baseline\(s\Combining fringe location of the target with the phase allows high accuracy for spacecraft angular position 
estimate. This can be achieved using telemetry signals of at least 4-8 MSamples/sec data rate or DOR tones 12  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  C ONCEPT 1  3  T HEORY 2  4  E RRORS OF P OSITION E STIMATES 4 
 5  C ALIBRATION E RRORS AND E RROR B UDGET C ONSIDERATIONS 5  6  A VAILABILITY OF S UITABLE C ALIBRATORS 6  7  T ESTS   R ESULTS  AND S UGGESTED F UTURE W ORK 
6  8  C ONCLUSION 7  A CKNOWLEDGEMENT 7  R EFERENCES 7  B IOGRAPHY 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  The angular position estimat es with the Deep Space Network \(DSN\are made using very long baseline Interferometer \(VLBI  Phase m easurem ents at widely  separated frequencies are used to calculate group delay, and these delays are employed to estimate angular position of a spacecraft with respect to a n 
earby calibration source. The accuracy of the angular position estimates is limited by spanned bandwidth for the spacecraft signal because of spectrum management requirements. On the other hand VLBI phase measurements can be used to determine position of a compact radio source \(including spacecraft with high accuracy, but for the interferometer interference fringe cycle ambiguity. This can be resolved using multiple interferometer baselines, e.g., as used by the very long baseline array \(VLBA\ using group delay measurements employing wide band telemetry or widely separated ranging tones, as used in the DSN 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1557, Version 2, Updated January 26, 2009 To resolve the fringe ambiguity, using group delay 
estimates, very high accuracy phase measurements are required, because of limited ra nging tone separa tion \(due to spectrum allocation\s requires high signal to noise ratio SNR\easurements, and that necessitates using strong calibration source and/or long integration on the calibrator. Using strong calibration source generally makes it necessary to have a calibrator angularly far away from the target source because th e density of sources in sky goes down for stronger sources. Long integration causes poor phase measurement accuracy due to instrumental variations with time and pr opagation path changes caused by atmospheric fluctuations for the signal arriving at the interferometer antennas.  Large angular separations also cause calibration errors due to different atmospheric delays along the different lines of sight and lack of knowledge of the exact observing geometry between the source and the 
interferometer baseline. These errors are essentially proportional to the angular separation The effects due to long integration times on each of the sources and therefore large temporal separation between observations of target and ca librator, required to provide adequate SNR for the measurements on the sources, can be ameliorated by interleaving many cycles of short duration observations of the calibrator and target source. As atmospheric fluctuations have power law spectra for temporal or position separation, the affects of atmospheric fluctuations can be minimized by using short cycle times once interferometer phases are calibrated, long total integration time can be achieved by combining observations over many cycles\its to minimizing cycle time because of limited antenna slew rates and settling time required before starting the measurements 
The differential path length changes for signals arriving from the two sources at the antennas increase as angular separation between calibrator a nd target is increased. The calibration errors also increase with increasing angular separation between calibrator and target due to lack of knowledge of the exact source-baseline geometry caused by uncertainty in earth rotation parameters and positions of the antennas. Therefore, to keep these calibration errors small it is desirable to keep the angular separation between calibrator and target source small 2  C ONCEPT  This paper proposes to use variations \(with time\ween observed and calculated phases from an interferometer to 


Y   2 estimate the offset from an a ssumed position of the target i.e., estimate position offset from the difference between observed minus calculated phases for different spatial frequency \(U,V   The initial position of the target could be off from the actual position by several fringe cycles. It can be estimated using group delays from moderate signal to noise ratio \(SNR VLBI phase measurements. The minimum length of observation \(or spatial freque ncy coverage\red for resolving fringe cycle ambiguity depends on the accuracy of the phase measurements. To resolve fringe ambiguity to half cycle accuracy, the difference between measured and calculated phases for an assumed position error of half a fringe should be larger than the combined errors of the phase measurements and fringe fitting The accuracy for relative pos ition of a spacecraft with respect to a calibrator will depend on the phase calibration errors \(due to propagation, instrumental variations and lack of knowledge about the exact geometry of the observations and signal to noise ratio \(SNR\he phase estimates for the calibrator and target sources over the observing period Calibration errors depend on the angular and temporal separation between calibrator a nd target source \(spacecraft measurements. For calibration of the VLBI phases with deep space network \(DSN\34m antennas at 8.4 GHz \(Xband\t should be possible to use a calibrator with flux density >50 mJy \(Jy = 10 26 Wm 2 Hz 1 ng 8 MHz signal bandwidth and about 1 minute integration. A calibrator with X-band flux density > 50 mJy is typically available within about 1 deg of any target pos ition. Temporal separation can be kept small by interleaving observations on target and calibrator with short scan time on each source and repeating many cycles of observations on the two sources to provide enough integration on each source Based on an estimated error budget, we expect about 1/3 nanoradian \(nrad ition accuracy using about an hour of \(actual\I observations with DSN 34m antennas at X-band employing scan time of 40 seconds on each source and 20 seconds to change sources \(a cycle time for target-calibrator-target observations of about 2 minutes The accuracy of the estimated position is limited by calibration errors, so it may be possible to improve the accuracy in a number of ways for example by 1 errors from earth orientation parameters and station location, 2 r-spacecraft separation - this may require employing weaker calibrators by increasing observation sensitivity using more G/T \(where G is antenna gain and T is system temperature\dth, or longer observations, and 3\ using multiple calibration sources on either side of the spacecraft to reduce affects of errors due to observing geometry and propagation 3  T HEORY  Relationship between spatial frequencies \(U,V,W position \(H 002 212 002  002  Then the differential phase for a source at a small offset   Y  002\002 002 002\002\002   sin  X cos sin cos   U H  sin cos sin H cos X 004\002 this source at \(H 004\003 U,V\pute a least squares fit to determine the values of the offset 004\002 the assumed spacecraft position, and a phase bias. Caution is required that there are no large gap in the values 004\003 U,V that would allow a cycle \(2 to be missed however, this is easily satisfied by other constrains discussed below\on the assumption of an initial position for the spacecraft.  A similar approach, based on fringe phase \(delay\\(fringe rate\used in radio astronomy to determine accurate relative position of weak radio any fringe cycle ambiguity, and then the bias phase can be used to determine an accura te position of the spacecraft Minimum spatial frequency \(U,V ions required The minimum amount of \(U,V required for this to work must provide a phase change that is larger than the error of estimating the value of the phase 200\004 004 H 212 H H Z V 212  003  002  002  002 002 212 002 002  H Y H Z cos cos sin sin cos X H 002 ine \(X,Y,Z  page 86   sin cos 0 sin cos sin sin cos cos cos  cos sin sin UH H X VHHY WHHZ 212    Here \(U,V,W\er spatial frequency components expressed in wavelengths, H and 002 are source hour angle and declination, and \(X,Y,Z \antenna baseline coordinates in wavelengths. X, Y and Z are measured in H=0h 002 0 260  H=-6h 002 0 260  002 90 260 rections respectively The interferometer phase for the source position \(H 002  be written as  003  002 be written as  004 002  Knowing the values for \(U,V 002 and the measured value of 004 H 005 004\003 Its desirable to have a minimum phase change of at least 2.5 005 004\003  Alternatively, one can look at this using Fourier transform FT\as shown schematically in Fig 1. Consider the onedimensional case of a source with maximum spatial 212 H 004 004 cos 200\004 


  3 frequency U max x and an observation of the source for 1/3 radian across the sky \(about 1.25 hours of observation for a source on the equator atial frequency coverage \(U is 2x/3 to x. The interferometer coverage can be Fourier transformed to give the beam response as [cos\(2 5xa/6 sinc\(xa/3  Here a = angl e on sky and x=m a xi m u m val u e of U. There are 2.5 cosine wave cycles in angle 0 to a 6/5x If we consider an 8000 km baseline between DSN VLBI antennas, then x=2*10 8 wavelengths 006 e first null of the sinc function is at 15 nrad, and it is multiplied by a cosine function with a 6 nrad period The first peak is at 0 and first negative peak is at 3 nrad, so it will be reduced to 0.935 when it is multiplied by sinc\(6/15  Fig 1 \226 Spatial frequency coverage a nd equivalent beam on the sky using Fourier transform. See text for a calculation of the SNR required to resolve fringe cycle ambiguities  To prevent false detection of a signal one-half fringe away we should have 2.5*root mean square noise plus value at the first null \(2.5 005 0.935 005 0.065, or SNR> 40 for the whole observation. The confidence level can be increased from 2.5 005 to higher values by increasing the time of observations that will make the sinc function narrower by increasing spatial frequency coverage and will also improve SNR. Also it\222s possible to increase the SNR by using a larger bandwidth on the calibrator and employing bandpass calibration to keep the dispersive errors small The initial value of the spacecraft position should not be grossly wrong to avoid appreciable loss of coherence over the signal bandwidth or within an integration time However, there can still be an offset of many fringe cycles between the actual and initial positions without appreciable loss of coherence. For example, consider a 100 MHz signal bandwidth. For a DSN 8000 km baseline, the delay beam width will be about 0.3 \265rad, and therefore from delay considerations one can easily tolerate an offset of 0.1 \265rad Also, in one minute of time a phase change due to an offset of 10 fringe cycles will be less than roughly \(number of fringe offsets*360 deg*scan time/time from max fringe rate to zero fringe rate\10 fringe cycles*360 deg*1min 360min ~10 deg for a source at equator. This phase change has negligible affect on integrating the signal for one minute and can be ignored. Otherwise, one can use short integrations and high spectral resolution to do least square fit to account for these affects Any effect due to phasing errors for antennas within an array at a vlbi site can be kept negligible by phasing the array antennas at each vlbi site on spacecraft \(where there is plenty of signal\hen keep this phasing while observing reference radio source \(that may be a weak quasar phasing errors for normal observing conditions during fast switching observations between radio source and spacecraft 


  4 with a few minute cycle time will be negligible at X-band for a 1-2 km array extent Initial position of the spacecra ft can be determined from group delay estimates If we assume the accuracy required for initial position of a spacecraft to be about 10 fringes a group delay accuracy of a bout 1.2 nsec is required 005  0.4 nsec for 3 sigma confidence\e 1 below shows the minimum signal required to give 005 0.4 nsec for VLBI observations with a pair of DSN 34m antennas under different observing scenarios  Figure 2: DeltaDOR error budget by Jim Border \(from presentati on by Dong Shin, Tracking systems and applications section section 335\o Interplanetary Network Directorate \(Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA 91009\ext for details  Estimates of the required calibrator strength in table 1 show that we can determine group delays with the required accuracy from forty five 40 sec scans spread over 75 minutes using DOR \(differential one-way ranging\ones, or 4 Mbit/s telemetry signals and a calibration source of 50 mJy \(Jy = 10 26 Wm 2 Hz 1  Also it is worth noting that there should be at least a SNR of 3 per scan, so coherent integration over multiple scans can be done without running into the problem of skipping a fringe cycle in the fringe f itting and a good fringe fitting is achieved. This is easily satisfied by other constrains. Further a spacecraft signal having bandwidth corresponding to a data rate of more than about 4 Msamples/sec is required to find its position within a few fringe cycles. If that is known from other considerations, then it may be possible to use a much reduced data rate spacecr aft signal for this approach to work  4  E RRORS OF P OSITION E STIMATES  To get an idea of the e xpected position accuracy from calibrated phase measurements Eq 12.13, p 374-75\based on SNR only, consider a DSN baseline of 8000 km. For observations at X-band \(wavelength 006 3.6 cm\his gives a baseline length of 2.22*10 8  006 This will give a fringe rate of roughly 17 kHz for a low declination source. If we observe for an integration time of 1 hour clock time of 1.25 hours\y 1.7*10 4 3600 1.25 = 7.65*10 7 fringe cycles elapsed during this period We can measure phase with SNR of 50 \(assuming two DSN 34 m antennas having system temperature of 30K bandwidth of 8 MHz, integration time forty five 40 sec scans over 60 minutes, and using a calibration source of 50 mJy at X-band fringe cycle. In the fringe fitting the spacecraft SNR is much larger than what is achieved on a calibrator and therefore its affect can be ignored.  This translates to 0.0034 fringes out of 7.65*10 7 fringes, or < 0.1 nrad due to SNR alone Un-Calibrated Media Media Calibration Platform Calibration DSS Instrumental DSN Control DSN Calibration nrad 


  5 Table 1 \226 Signal to noise ratio \(SNR\and calibrator flux density required to obtain 1-sigma accuracy of 0.4 nsec for group delay determination Object Condition \(Tsys at Xband Required for 0.4 ns delay accuracy Comment S/C DOR tone separation 40 MHz SNR>2 Easily achieved Radio source BW=16 MHz \(64Mbit/s recording integration = 40 sec/scan * 45scans SNR>4/scan 16 mJy calibrator required A calibrator within 0.6 deg possible S/C Telemetry 4 Mbit/s \(BW=8 MHz  SNR>100 4Mbit/s telemetry will have SNR>100 in 1 sec Radio source BW=8 MHz \(32 Mbit/s recording integration = 40sec/scan * 45 scans SNR>7.4/scan 50 mJy calibrator required A calibrator within 1 deg possible 5  C ALIBRATION E RRORS AND E RROR B UDGET C ONSIDERATIONS  An error budget for accurate angular position measurements, using VLBI, has been developed by Jim Border 3   in Fig 2 The error budget shows the expected \(1 sigma\errors from different sources for normal VLBI observing conditions with DSN 34m antennas at X-band using 10 minutes per scan on the spacecraft and calibration sources separated by 6 260 and a total observing time about 1 hour The calibration errors depend on the angular and temporal separation between the calibrator and spacecraft, and can be reduced by reducing the angular and temporal separation. Generally, tropospheric errors are linearly proportional with temporal separation, and errors due to ionospheric, solar plasma earth parameters and station location are linearly proportional to angular separation between the   The dispersive effects can be essentially eliminated by bandpass calibrations but some residual contribution will be left and here we assume that these are linearly dependent on the temporal separation. Thus, by interleaving short observation scans on calibrator and spacecraft and repeating the observations as many times as necessary to accumulate enough integra tion to get required signal to noise \(SNR\on each source, and by keeping angular separation between the two sources small, one can reduce these errors considerably An estimate of the expected calibration errors due to various items has been estimated from the error budget developed by Border [1 In table 2 we give calibration errors for different items as given by Border \(in nsec and how much potential reduction may be possible by using the dependence discu ssed above and reducing 5  3 Dong Shin, \223 IND Tracking presentation - part 2\224, Sept 21, 2007 the angular and temporal separation between calibrator and spacecraft to 1 deg and 1 minute There is a concern that this requires an observation over a period of 1.25 hours, so at least one of the VLBI stations will be pointing at low elevation and propagation errors will increase by approximately th e secant of the change in elevation. Assuming an hour angle coverage of 1/3 radian the propagation errors in calibration due to the atmosphere will increase by a factor of approximately 1.3. Thus, the total root sum squared \(RSS\ration error value will increase from 5.6 ps to about 6.5 ps. For calibration errors of 6.5 ps \(~2 mm\imated using 1 min and 1 deg temporal and angular separation, respectively, between calibrator and spacecraft, and an 8000 km baseline, we will have a calibration error of approximately 0.056 fringe cycle An SNR error contribution of 0.0034 fringe cycle estimated above\ves a total RSS error of ~0.056 fringe cycle. This is out of a total of 7.65*10 7 cycles, or 1 part in 1.4*10 9 or about 0.7 nrad. This \(error\value is much smaller than the mean fringe spacing \(6 nrad\therefore will easily resolve any fringe ambiguity. Now, if we take the phase error in the measured fringe phase offset to also be 0.056 fringe cycle, then the position of the source is uncertain by 0.056*fringe spacing of about 6 nrad \(for 8000 km baseline at X-band\s means we can estimate the relative position of a spacecraft to about 1/3 nrad It should be noted that the accu racy of the position error is dominated by calibration errors. SNR requirements are essentially only to resolve fringe ambiguity. If there is concern about SNR, you can reduce the SNR requirement by increasing the spatial frequency coverage, or alternatively increasing the SNR, either by using a stronger calibration source or by increasing the bandwidth for the calibrator observations. \(For spacecraft there is normally plenty of SNR and therefore this is not a concern  Bandwidth for calibrator observations can be easily increased without affecting the dispersive errors due to instrumentation substantially, especially if the bandpass calibration is used to correct for any dispersion affects 


  6 Table 2 \226 Error budget for angular measurements. The colu mns labeled Border error are from the error budget for angular position measurements for DDOR by Jim Border \(from presentation by Dong Shin, Tracking Systems and Applications Section \(section 335 ry Network Directorate, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, on 21 Sep 2007 Error budget item Border error \(10 min, 6 260 separation Comments  Value \(nrad  Value \(nsec nsec  Calibrator SNR 1.375 0.033  Note 1 Spacecraft SNR 0.7917 0.019  Note 1 Clock Instability 0.1667 0.004 0.0004 Linear with time Dispersive phaseinstrumental 1.2083 0.029 0.0029 Note 2 Station Location 0.4167 0.01 0.0017 Linear with angle Earth Orientation 0.5833 0.014 0.0023 Linear with angle Troposphere\226 systematic 0.5417 0.013 0.0013 Linear with time Troposphere fluctuating 0.833 0.02 0.002 Linear with time Ionosphere 0.833 0.02 0.003 Linear with angle Solar Plasma 0.125 0.003 0.0005 Linear with angle RSS Error   0.0056  Note 1 - This is not directly applicable here because we use phase error at RF instead of delay. This should be included in fringe fitting error for both calibration source and spacecr\aft Note 2 \226 Bandpass calibration and/or use of telemetry data instead of DOR tones would essentially eliminate this affect 6  A VAILABILITY OF S UITABLE C ALIBRATORS  The density of radio sources exceeding a given certain flux density at X-band is known from many studies \(e.g. see    Al so t h e fract i on of sources at a gi ven fl ux densi t y t h at  are compact enough to be used as calibration sources is important. The flux density of interest is 10-100 mJy Samples of radio sources in a few fields with ten to few hundred mJy at X-band have been studied recently for compactness using the NRAO Very Long Baseline Array VLBA\These observations show that about 1/3 of sources with flux density > 10 mJy are compact From t h e integrated number density of radio sources as a function of flux density, and knowing what fraction of sources are compact, one can determine the availability of sources for calibration. Number density plots show that there is about 1 source per square degree at 50 mJy at X-band, and if 1/3 of these sources are compact then we should have a source that can be used for calibration within about 1 deg from any direction 7  T ESTS   R ESULTS  AND S UGGESTED F UTURE W ORK  Relative angular position measurement errors using VLBI are essentially due to two main reasons \226 calibration errors and SNR. Errors due to SNR can be easily calculated from actual observing conditions but estimating the calibration errors is complex. To see whether the above analysis for reducing calibration errors is reasonable, we have made VLBI observations of pairs of known compact radio sources quasars\ 0.5 Jy at X-band with separations of about 1 degree. We used an observing cycle of about 2 minutes between the two sources. The observations were made using DSN 34m antennas at Goldstone and Madrid with a spanned bandwidth of about 80 MHz and 1 hour of total time on each pair. We consider one of the sources from a pair as a calibrator and the second one as a spacecraft, and estimated position of the second source using the fringe fitting approach discussed above. Details of the actual observations, data reduction and results have been described separately by Majid and Bagri  The m a i n  results are summarized in Table 3. The results show that we can estimate the relative positi on of a target source \(with respect to assumed calibrator about <0.2 nrad accuracy Future work includes the following: 1\ng weaker calibrator and DOR tones from a spacecraft \226 to establish that weaker calibrators are adequate. 2 Using telemetry signal instead of DOR t ones from a spacecraft 226 to establish that telemetry signals can be used instead of DOR tones. 3 Reducing calibration errors Reducing the angular separation will reduce systematic effects, but will require using weaker calibrators. That can be compensated by increasing the observing time, which will also increase U,V coverage 260  separation Error \(1 min 1 


  7 Table 3 \226Estimated position error for target relative to calibrator from observations of known pairs of  quasars Calibrator C\Target T pair Flux density mJy Angular separation deg Fringe fitting error converted to delay \(ps Equivalent angular position error  \(see note 1 Observed during 0805+410\(C 0814+425\(T 560 550 2.3 3 0.13 Dec 2005 1030+415\(C 1020+400\(T 480 570 2.4 6 0.26 Dec 2005 1044+719\(C 1053+704\(T 650 350 1.7 3 0.13 Dec 2005 Note 1 \226 The angular error values are obtained by dividi ng the corresponding delay errors by a baseline length of 8000 km in units of nanoseconds 8  C ONCLUSION  An approach to measure the relative position of a spacecraft to about 1/3 nanoradian with the existing DSN system using DOR tones or telemetry signal of about 4 Mbit/sec is described. It employs fringe fitting of VLBI phase measurements to determine the offset from an assumed initial position of the spacecr aft. The required initial approximate position of the spacecraft should be within a few fringes and can be estimated using group delay measurements using DOR tones, or telemetry signals with data rate at least about 4 Mbit/sec \(bandwidth > ~8 MHz Results from preliminary tests using VLBI measurements with DSN 34m antennas, on pairs of known compact radio sources \(quasars\using DOR tones at X-band, are consistent with expected valu es computed. More tests need to be made using telemetry signals from a spacecraft, and using weaker calibration sources, to demonstrate that the approach works A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  Thanks to Dayton Jones for helpful discussions while developing the concept and Christopher Jacobs and Dayton Jones for their comments on the draft of the paper This work was supported in part by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  R EFERENCES   Gabor Lany i Durgadas S. B a gri and Jam e s S. B o rder 223 Angular Position Determina tion of Spacecraft by Radio Interferometry 224 to be published in Proc IEEE Special Issue on "Technical Advances in Deep Space Communications and Tracking", vol 95, No. 11, Nov. 2007  A R Thom pson, J M M o ran and G W  Swenson 223 Interferometry and Synthesis in Radio Astronomy 224, John Wiley & Sons, 1986, Sec 12-2, p 372-376 3 J F Lestrad e A E E E Ro g e rs, A R W h itn ey, A E Neill R B Phillips,  and R A Preston, \223 Phase-referenced VLBI Observations of weak r adio sources \226 Milliarcsecond position of Algol 224, Astronomical Journal, Vol. 99, p16631673, May 1990  W M a ji d and D B a gri  223 Availability of Calibration Sources for Measuring Spacecraft Angular Position with Sub-Nanoradian Accuracy 224. IPN Progress Report 42-165 May 15, 2006  W M a ji d, E Fom a l ont and D B a gri   223 Compactness of Weak Radio Sources at High Frequencies Preliminary Results of VLBA Observations\224, presented at American Astronomical Society Meeting, Honolulu, HI, May 2007   W  A M a ji d and D S B a gri 223Preci si on R e l a t i v e Astrometry with the Deep Space Network\224, IPN Progress Report 42-172, February 15, 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Durgadas S. Bagri j oined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\n Pasadena, California, in 2000. At JPL he has been working on the system engineering for the DSN Array and on the improvements in measurement accuracy of tracking data for deep space navigation.  He received his Ph D. in 1975, working at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, India, in the area of radio astronomy instrumentation. He worked as an electronics engineer from 1976-78 and 1983-85, and as a system engineer from 19852000 for the Very Large Array and Very Long Baseline Array of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory NRAO\ the U.S.A. He is a member of the International Astronomical Union \(IAU\ional URSI  international Union of Radio Science  Walid Majid is a member of technical staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Californi a Institute of Technology Pasadena, CA. His interests include radio interferometry radio, and pulsar astronomy. He is the author of many articles in refereed scientific journals. Dr. Majid holds a Ph.D. in Physics and is a memb er of the American Physical Society and the American Astronomical Society 


In particular we import a simplified light weight OWL version of DOLCE known as DUL DOCLE Ultra Lite 25 as the starting point of all the Ilium Ontologies  as imported by the basic Ilium Framework ontology DUL divides the world into both 4 physical dimensional categories of Event State Action and 3 dimensional categories including Information Realization Object Quality and Region A more detailed description of DOLCE and DUL is beyond the scope of this paper numerous papers and other documentation is available at the LOA DOLCE web site http.//www.loa-cnr.it/DOLCE.html Figure 5 is a view of the basic Ilium Ontology and imported DUL owl ontology depicted in the Top Braid Composer Editor Classes and Properties with the prefix dul are imported from DUL.owl The Class Structure tree is visible in the left panel A more detailed analysis of the DUL Physical Object class is visible along with several Classes that have been imported from the Ilium Geo ontology and subsumed by the DUL PhysicalObject class Thus a geo:TopographicFeaure is defined as a kind of PhysicalObject Likewise Object Properties are seen in the right panel Properties like Classes may have subordinate Properties that specialize the parent Property In the depicted example Dul:isRoleOf is a specialization of the dul:classifies relation The center panel displays details axioms documentation etc related to the selected Class Figure 5 DOLCE Ultra Lite Foundational Ontology The Middle layer includes a number of specialized perspectives on a generic domain These ontologies focus on material assets IliumAsset organizations IliumOrg geographic and cartographic features IliumGeo and situations\(IliumSit At this level analytical standards associated with these perspectives are incorporated and 8 


t rnast M ilitairAs set y6eo Pop0U lbtthFeAtU rt i eO StifiCiAlliEMLilfE  ge.o Sb4toialFet atu re gepo 4 nece ssarfl a where possible imported into the ontologies to leverage 27 and the Ilium Geo ontology incorporates concepts from those standards and improve long-term compatibility with and may import the Open Geographic Modeling Language other ontologies that reference those standards Thus the ontology 28 29 Figure 6 depicts a view of the IliumAsset Ilium Asset ontology incorporates process and service Ontology in the Editor concepts from the NIST Process Specification Language 26 l E tit  dij~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai 1etn ast:PhysicaIA d d Age ast As&etT&enporaryPaet of being able to tan ast ConstrUctionAs set Axiom a ast inatr rtnMnanagere ntAs'r aL tT dl:PhysicalArtiba astAs ctCn p o r i9 n{r o bo HydruogeI cFeatu0re A fmiport  intan TrashportationFeatrF e tu eer PrperIies Fb r r n I R s v dul Sub c tance ne nt particu[ar ncie ih I a.sttMa.rmagenieiAset asti--com-a3 b nt:r-participa p 0 o aslttPlig\247izallAl5tt     t40b Tityli olf tht d b E h dul Inbor aiorealizatic.n Anno tiE S dul Ob jct dfWg,iSX aAssot duI PhysIcalArti Ict services tiA impl In such na iceqaric nt hysical asset dul WgPh5 scaIObt thAt is intehold some hurman or g d u IPhyiaIA9cnt tpical1 is ast-Transp rttiobnAss gesp nat rFa&tUre L Nig 4 VQAV    AdUA   AdviUAV Figure 6 Iliun Below the Middle layer are found domain specific ontologies that mirror and extend the ontological perspectives of the Middle layer We currently have developed a layer of Military OWL ontologies to serve as domain models for a number of legacy operations analysis simulations aeronautical engineering design tools and software prototypes that are used to support the integrated design and development of aeronautical systems For example the MilAsset ontology models military platforms command and control systems and similar physical assets a specialized extension of that describes concepts peculiar to Unmanned Aircraft n Asset Ontology Figure 7 depicts a view of the MillAsset ontology in the Editor Concepts and Properties with the prefix mast are elements of the MilAsset ontology In this view specialized classes formilitary ManeuverableAircraft are depicted as sub-classes of FixedWingAircraft and a large number current maneuverable aircraft types are specified Aircraft types may have specialized models that describe for example sensor configurations or performance characteristics of interest that are particular to one or more plug-ins In this view of the editor an number of model relationships are visible in the Properties window at the right of the frame In the SPARQL panel at the bottom a 9 


SPARQL query discussed in more detail in Section 6 has retrieved the SEAS Plane model information for a particular F-15 instance gure  Mvlititary Asset utnology A number of other military ontologies also exist The MilOrg ondology describes military and related political organizations as well as particular Roles they play in military affairs Tasks they are required to perform and specialized military Actions that perform them MilGeo defines a military perspective on geography with emphasis on terrain polpulation and cultural features of interest to military operations MilGeo contains classes that describe military facilities including Forts Airbases NavalPorts and Forward Operating Locations The MilSit ontology describes Conflicts Campaigns Missions Plans and similar concepts It also defines exactly what constitutes a situation and classifies various types of situations Specialized ontologies relating to military information and communications exist and may be imported in some cases to provide increased detail for those concerns Finally to support military Modeling and Simulation applications the MilSim ontology provides a platform for importing relevant ontologies for a particular study or exercise and a location to create concepts peculiar to individual simulations 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


