EQUATION OF STATE OF WARM DENSE MATTER A T DARHT 2 FACILITY    T homas J. T. Kwan, M ark 
J. Schmitt, W illiam S Daughton C arl A Ekda hl, John F. Benage, Michael S Murillo F rederick J Wysocki  Applied Physics Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory 
 Los Al amos, NM 87544   Accurate equation of state theory on warm dense matter is a big challenge to model and good experimental data is 
difficult to obtain.  One of the difficulties is the creation of a warm dense matter WDM suitable for experiments to examine its equation of state.  We have examine methods of creating a warm dense matter using three different kinds of energetic particle beams such as short pulse laser energetic 
proton beam and relativistic electron beam  We found that the use of relativistic electrons such as the second axis of the Dual Axis Radiographic Hydro Test \(DARHT\ facility at Los Alamos National Laboratory can create WDM ideally 
suitable for experiments to obtain data on the equation of state of such WDM over an extended parameter sp ace The electron beam has an energy of 18 MeV and a current of 2 kA.  Its pulse length can be varied from 20 ns to 200 ns.  We will present results from our calculations on the creation and 
characterization of WDM using the DARHT electron beam We will also present our planned experiments specifically for the measurements of equations of state of such a WDM   ________________________________  
  Work supported by US DOE/NNSA, performed at LANL operated by LANS LLC under Contract DE AC52 06NA25396   U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. Copyright 


   2 the scientific point of view, the exploration of the millimetre part of the electromagnetic spectrum allows for acquiring valuable data from the lunar surface in terms of  brightness temperature and surface emissivity maps. All the data gathered will be helpful in order to determine the dielectric properties of the surface ma terials and will allow the characterization of the thermal properties of the lunar soil The pursued approach based on the use of millimeter waves is at present feasible because of the advances obtained in the last years by the millim Actually, these wavelengths are employed by radars in a wide range of military, commercial and, recently, scientific applications, such as remote sensing, surveillance telecommunication. Millimeter wave sensors offer higher performance with respect to microwave and infrared-based sensors in several applicati ons. However, this technology has not yet been fully explo ited in the space environment the main drawback of  millimeter waves, i.e. major affection of the atmospheric attenuation, disappears in space where small size and flexibility of the systems become fundamental In this paper preliminary results of the currently ongoing study carried out by Rheinmetall Italy for a millimeter wave radar are reported, especially focused on the millimeter wave radar and its functionalities. The study has been carried out with the collaboration of INAF Moon science team 2  T HE MAGIA  M ISSION  MAGIA is a lunar mission proposed to the Italian Space Agency \(ASI\ a scientific and industrial team led by Rheinmetall Italy \(RHI\ASI funded this phase A study in the frame of a special call devoted to "small missions within the National Aerosp ace Plan. The term "small missions" identifies low-cost and faster space missions capable anyhow of guaranteeing a valuable technology and science return. The study is strongly supported by INAF Italian National Institute of Astrophysics\The program foresees design and development of a Moon orbiter to be inserted into a low orbit \(about 100 km\o carry out remote sensing over two years through the complementary observations of different payloads embarked on a common platform. The latter one is a high performing small bus 200 kg\currently developed by RHI under ASI contract Main objective is to acquire global and local data of the Moon during a first mission phase in order to pursue the following science goals  Detailed study of the internal structure of the Moon through its gravity and figure  Study of the polar and sub-polar regions in terms of their morphology and mineralogy  Study of the lunar exosphere and radioactive environment Moreover, the satellite will provide also a contribution to the fundamental physics, through an improved measurement of the gravitational red-shift from a circumlunar platform and the determination of the position of the seleno-center during a second mission phase characterized by the release of a sub-satellite 95 GHz RAR Block Diagram DDS Chirp Generator Processing and Storage Carrier Generator Altimeter Radiometer LNA SSPA 95 GHz 95 GHz RAR Block Diagram DDS Chirp Generator DDS Chirp Generator Processing and Storage Carrier Generator Altimeter Altimeter Radiometer Radiometer LNA SSPA 95 GHz  Figure 1 \226 Block diagram of  the RAR instrument  With respect to this, so far the lunar orbit chosen is frozen type. Such classes of orbit have the peculiarity to maintain 223constant\224 some orbital parameters. In particular considering satellites orbiting the Moon, eccentricity is the orbit parameter which has to be maintained as constant as possible because the gravitational field anomalies impose an increase of eccentricity of circular orbits and a consequent reduction of peri-selenium height and increase of aposelenium since the semi-major axis \(excluding some oscillation\ is almost constant SB2 Nadir SB1 Moon surface Antenna Beam Configuration MAGIA SB2 Nadir SB1 Moon surface Antenna Beam Configuration MAGIA  Figure 2 \226 Antenna beam configuration for the RAR instrument  


   3 SB1 Nadir SB2 SSPA Noise Source Hot Load LNA Processor 95 GHz Clock DDS SB1 Tx SB2 Tx Nadir Tx 86 GHz 86 GHz 8 GHz 8 GHz Upconverter Frequency Generator Downconverter 1 GHz Tx Switch Matrix 95 GHz Nadir Rx SB2 Rx SB1 Rx Rx Switch Matrix Rad Switch Matrix 1 GHz Mass Memory Communication Payload controller SB3 Sky Beam SB1 Nadir SB2 SSPA SSPA Noise Source Hot Load LNA LNA Processor Processor 95 GHz Clock DDS SB1 Tx SB2 Tx Nadir Tx 86 GHz 86 GHz 8 GHz 8 GHz Upconverter Upconverter Frequency Generator Frequency Generator Downconverter Downconverter 1 GHz Tx Switch Matrix 95 GHz Nadir Rx SB2 Rx SB1 Rx Rx Switch Matrix Rx Switch Matrix Rx Switch Matrix Rad Switch Matrix Rad Switch Matrix Rad Switch Matrix Rad Switch Matrix 1 GHz Mass Memory Mass Memory Communication Payload controller SB3 Sky Beam  Figure 3 \226 RAR front end deta iled general block diagram  Theoretically, a frozen orbit is the best condition for Moon remote sensing but we can not affirm this for the gravity field recovery. Anyhow, considering more refined gravity field representation, the chosen orbit is not frozen so allowing a good trade-off between remote sensing and gravity field measurements The mission MAGIA will allow to study and to go more in depth on all the above mentioned aspects of the lunar science, by means of a \223clev er\224 payload. Actually, the following combination of instruments are envisaged  the CAM-SIR instrument, a high spatial resolution imaging camera operating in the visible, providing high spatial resolution images and aimed at characterizing and mapping the mineral composition of the lunar surface to gain information about the Moon's geologic evolution  CARISMA, a high spatial resolution imaging camera operating in the visible, to provide high spatial resolution images including a panchromatic and broad-band filters  Alena, a particle detector devoted to evaluate the interaction between the Moon and its environment  A spectrometer for particles to be used to characterize the environmen t and identify energetic particles  RAR, a compact millimeter wave radar operating at 95 GHz to provide altimetry, scatterometry and radiometry of the surface  The next section is devoted to describe the RAR instrument  3  T HE M ULTIMODE M ILLIMETER W AVE R ADAR  Several payloads aimed to carry out remote sensing of the lunar surface along a period of two/three years will be embarked on-board the MAGIA orbiter. One of those payloads is named RAR \(Radar Altimeter Radiometer an innovative radar operating at millimeter wavelenghts \(95 GHz\with reduced antenna and mass which will exploit its intrinsic high resolution characteristics in order to provide accurate topography of the luna r surface. Its main science goals aim at the following  achieve an accurate Moon topography  


   4             Figure 4 \226 Timeline of the radar transmitted and received signals   measure the backscattering coefficient of lunar surface  calculate the temperature of lunar surface Such objectives will be achieved with the following main scientific requirements: spatial resolution better than 600 m height accuracy better than 1 m In order to pursue the above mentioned scientific objectives the RAR instrument operates as a multimode 95 GHz multiple-beam sensor, allowing to alternatively work as altimeter, scatterometer and radiometer. This approach exploits in this way the capability of producing both global topographic lunar maps with different spatial resolutions and lunar surface brightness temp erature maps. In addition the use of a multiple-beam mode allows for viewing the surface with different inci dence angles, enabling the scatterometer capability in order to collect measurements of the surface backscatter coeffici ent. The general RAR block diagram is showed in Figure 1 The RAR instrument uses three beam antenna feed assembly associated with th e spacecraft high antenna gain to transmit and receive elect romagnetic radiation according to three operative modes: altimeter mode, scatterometer mode and radiometer mode. Figure 2 illustrates the antenna beam  configuration for the RAR payload. Four beams are envisaged to be used for the RAR instrument. Specifically the central beam \(nadir pointed operate in altimeter mode, the side beams \(SB1 and SB2\ will be used both for scatterometry and finally just the central beam will be used to collect data for radiometry. A fourth beam SB3\s used to observe the sky background \(cosmic microwave background\n order to provide a calibration source \(three sources  are foreseen\ operates separately depending on the instrument operating mode in transmitting and receiving mode Concerning the altimeter mode, it uses the radar in PulseLimited mode \(PL\n which the limitation of the ground patch received in the resolution cell is due to the length of the compressed pulse; this configuration is typical when the altimeter is high enough from the surface  The deramp technique is employed because of its capability of producing a radar mode with a very high resolution over a small field. The altimeter employs a narrow antenna beam to carry out time-of-flight measurements of signals bounced from the surface elevations along the suborbital track aimed at nadir\ain information provided by the altimeter echoes is the range between orbit and surface Such a datum along with the knowledge of orbiter and Moon ephemerides will be turn ed into lunar radius along the track. In this way, a relative and absolute \(post reconstruction r topographic profile will be stemmed In the scatterometer mode, the radar will use two beams at different angles: to characterize in a good way the incoherent echo component the beams angles will be \26115 or 26130 degrees. Furthermore, the signal band will be reduced with respect to the altimeter mode to have a more precision measurement of backscatte ring coefficient. In the radiometer mode, the lateral resolution will be better than 650 m with a sensibility better than -110 dBm/MHz, a radiometer  333 s 666 s  Transmitted Signal Received Signal 1 100 Altimeter Scatterometer Mode  Radiometer Mode 1  100  200 ms 333 s 666 s  Transmitted Signal Received Signal 1 100 Altimeter Scatterometer Mode  Radiometer Mode 1  100  200 ms 


   5  From Feed LO / DDS 86 GHz 95 GHz BPF 100 MHz 95 GHz 9 GHz MAGIA \226 LUNAR MILLIMETRE WAVE RADIOMETRE X 2 BPF Noise Source Heat Source Calibration Section  BPF 400 MHz  From Feed LO / DDS 86 GHz 95 GHz BPF 100 MHz BPF 100 MHz 95 GHz 9 GHz MAGIA \226 LUNAR MILLIMETRE WAVE RADIOMETRE X 2 BPF BPF Noise Source Heat Source Calibration Section  BPF 400 MHz BPF 400 MHz  Figure 5 \226 Block diagram of  the radiometer  accuracy better than 1 K and a radiometer resolution better than 0.1 K. Furthermore, the radiometer will observe the surface covering the temperature range from ~ 60 K to 400 K The detailed general block diagram of the instrument is shown in Figure 3. The instrument is basically constituted by three different sections related to the three operating modes. Such sections are overlapped whenever is possible to share common parts both in the receiving and the transmitting part. Hereafter, the instrument scheme is described A nadir-looking antenna of 0.5 m sends/collects radiation depending on the operating mode through a focal plane filled with four feed-horns \(potter or corrugated horn\. One feed is centred while the side ones are slightly shifted in order to produce respectively a multi-beam configuration through a nadir-looking beam and two symmetrical tilted beams \(30\260, to be confirmed during next phases\A fourth beam is used to collect the sky background radiation to be used as calibration source for the radiometer In the transmitting mode, a frequency generator allows both to generate a suitable waveform through a DDS \(Direct Digital Synthesis\d two local oscillator signals. Then, an up-conversion section increases the frequency up to the nominal transmitting frequency \(95 GHz\d delivers it to a SSPA \(Solid State Power Amplifier\to acquire the required power gain. Once power amplified, the signal is routed through a Tx switch matrix to the specific feed depending on the chosen operati ng mode \(SB1 and SB2 for scatterometry, Nadir for altimetry The Tx switch matrix basically rules the signal path from the SSPA to the SB1, SB2, or nadir horn and at last to a matched load, absorbing in su ch a way the power when the instrument operates in radiometer mode. Equivalently, in the receiving mode, the signal is collected by the antenna and sent to the feeds. Each feed channel is provided with a ferrite circulator in order to separate the transmitting and the receiving mode. The collected signa ls are then sent to a Rx switch matrix that is responsible to route them on the right path depending on the operating mode. A second switch matrix \(Calibration Switch Matrix\stead is used to select the path to carry out the radiometer calibration Concerning the frequency generation section \(part of the general architecture reported in Figure 3\cally, it is based on a master frequency generator at 162 MHz that through consecutive multipliers allo ws to generate two local oscillator signals \(86 GHz and 8 GHz\d a clock signal at 672 MHz. The latter one is sent as input to the DDS in order to produce the desired waveform. Afterwards, this signal is at first increased at 1 GHz through multipliers and then upconverted consecutively at 9 GHz and finally at 95 GHz 


   6 using the local oscillators a bove mentioned. At last, the signal goes to the SSPA input The transmitted signal is a chirp with a variable band in function of the desired resoluti on, the  chirp slope frequency being f = B where B is the bandwidth and is the pulse duration. The instrument works in DDS logic, hence the signal band is adaptable. In Figure 4 is reported the time evolution of the transmitted and received signals. In the high resolution altimeter mode the signal carrier frequency of RAR instrument is 95 GHz and the signal bandwidth is 300-500 MHz. The transmitted waveform will be a chirp with a bandwidth of 330 MHz In the altimeter modes, the received radar echo are proce ssed by deramping, filtered and after sampled by an A/D converter. The signal is elaborated by FFT, a loop tracking and a loop gain to produce the data will be transmitted to Earth. The differences between the two modes are the signal bandwidth, since in the low resolution altimeter mode the bandwidth will be lower than the in altimeter mode and the data will be transmitted to Earth: data concerning AGC Adaptive Gain Control\, the data concerning the height surface, the FFT samples concerning low resolution mode while the samples of radar echo will substitute FFT samples in the high resolution altimeter mode The last operating mode is constituted by radiometry. A simple scheme of the radiometer is reported in Figure 5 Such a mode will exploit the central beam \(Nadir\ collect microwave radiation from the lunar surface in order to obtain brightness temperature maps. The microwave radiometer is basically configured as a total power radiometer. Such a choice is due both to simplify the hardware configuration and to relax payload mass and power requirements but at the same time with the drawback of a poor calibration. The main components of the radiometer are the central feed horn \(Nadir Amplifier \(LNA\e mixer, the local oscillator, the IF amplifier, the pre-detection filter, the detector, the integrator and finally the Analog to Digital Converter \(ADC\Feeds and LNA are shared with the altimeter and the scatterometer in order to reduce complexity and costs In this phase a preliminary evaluation of the radar power budget has been carried out. Table 1 shows the power budget calculated for the altimeter mode. The following formula has been used  to calculate the signal to noise ratio FBkTH cGP p 0 32 022 64 002 003\004\005   The parameters above used are identified in Table 1 Finally, a preliminary evaluati on of the work carried out identifies a maximum power consumption of about 30 W and a maximum mass of 10 kg Table 1   Radar power budget for the altimeter mode \(high resolution NE 0 18 dB 418 400 Total 28 64 2 7 F Noise Figure 35 300 s Pulse width 25 290 K T 0 Temperature 229 1.38*10 23 J/K k Boltzmann constant 150 H =100 km H 3 Height 85 3*10 8 m/s c Light speed 85 330 MHz B Bandwidth 20 10 mW P p Peak Power 104 Antenna efficiency = 0.65 G 2 Gain 50 3.16 mm 2 Wavelenght dB dB Comment Symbol Parameter NE 0 18 dB 418 400 Total 28 64 2 7 F Noise Figure 35 300 s Pulse width 25 290 K T 0 Temperature 229 1.38*10 23 J/K k Boltzmann constant 150 H =100 km H 3 Height 85 3*10 8 m/s c Light speed 85 330 MHz B Bandwidth 20 10 mW P p Peak Power 104 Antenna efficiency = 0.65 G 2 Gain 50 3.16 mm 2 Wavelenght dB dB Comment Symbol Parameter   4  C ONCLUSIONS  Preliminary results of a currently ongoing study related to the design of a millimeter wave radar for lunar remote sensing were reported in the paper. The radar is a multipurpose radar operating at 95 GHz which follows the path opened by the Cassini radar at present orbiting around Saturn. Actually, exploiting the high and innovative operating frequency \(95 GHz nd combining the different operating modes, the RAR instrument will allow to acquire valuable data from the lunar surface data in terms of brightness temperature and su rface emissivity maps. Such data will be used to determine the dielectric properties of the surface materials and will a llow the characterization of the thermal properties of the lunar soil. Future work foresees a detailed definition of the radar and its performance evaluation through system simulation via microwave software        


   7 R EFERENCES  1] \223The vision for Space Expl oration\224, February 2004  E Re, M. Ruggieri, V. Dainelli , M. Ferri, \223Millim eter Wave Technology for Moon and Mars Exploration\224 IEEE Aerospace Conference 2008, Big Sky, Montana, 1-8 March 2008  E Lim iti, M. Ruggieri, \223Innovative Technologies for the Developments of W-band Radars and Communication Payloads\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference 2006, Big Sky, Montana, 1-8 March 2008  ediate Phase A Report\224 Rheinm etall Italy Internal Document 5 i o  B. Pern ice, L. Bo rg arelli, C. Dio n i sio   R Tizzoni, \223Cassini Radar Radio-Frequency Subsystem Design Description and Pe rformance Analysis\224, IEEE 1992 B IOGRAPHY  Marco Lucente received his University Degree in Physics with specialization of Astrophysics and Space Physics in 2002 from the University of Rome \223La Sapienza\224 He was involved in studying the polarimeter of the BOOMERanG Balloon Observation of Millimetric Extragalactic Radiation and Geophysics\ experiment He received a MSc Degree in 223Advanced Communication and Navigation Satellite Systems\224 at the University of Rome \223Tor Vergata\224 in 2004/2005. Since the beginning of 2004, he is a scientific member of the WAVE \(W-band Analysis and VErification project team. He is currently involved in different projects most of them based on the exploitation of microwaves/millimeter waves \(telecommunication, remote sensing, Universe observation He is author of several papers, on proceedings of in ternational conferences and journals. His main fields of research concern Space Systems, EHF Telecommunication Satellites, Universe/Solar System Observation Satellites Spaceborne Remote Sensing Radar Systems, Navigation Sat ellite Systems, and Inertial Navigation Systems  Vittorio Dainelli is microwave/mm wave developments R&D manager at Rheinmetall Italy Rome \(Italy\. About thirty years of experience in design/development/m anagement  of microwave/mm wave systems/subsystems including MMICs, MEMS, and Quasioptic devices for ground/space and subsystem/systems for shipborne, ground military, and civil radars. Degree cum laude  in Electronic Engineering from University of Rome , Ph.D. in Automatic Control Systems  Cesare Dionisio   Mario Noce is a young engineer working at Rheinmetall Italia, Roma \(Italy\. About two years of experience in satellite mission analysis, and about one year of experience in design & development of radar systems. Degree cum laude in Electronic Engineering from University of Palermo, Master Degree cum laude in Advanced navigation and communication satellite system    


   8  


L f l Dr John Wu received his Ph.D from the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne U K in 1990 He has a over 17years of experience in jjg~~~Jj the research and development of distributed system to provide anautomatedand applications intelligent systems databases and Intemnet technologies At ATC Dr Wu has led several R&D efforts including the development of an Agent-Based Active Network ABAN system to provide an automated and intelligent information dissemination service for more effective communications under rapidly changing warfighting environments ABAN aims to enhance the Army's Future Combat Systems with seamless flow of secure context-aware and personally adapted information wherever and whenever the warfighter needs it The success of the project was recognized with a nomination for the Army's 2005 SBIR Quality Award ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Kevin Millikin and Sanjukta Roy made key contributions to the implementation of the GeoTIDeS prototype Their contributions are gratefully acknowledged 9 


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


