Abstract The modern critical infrastr uctures \(Power grids Power plants, gas and oil pipelines etc.\are nowadays strongly interconnected at national and in ternational level. The failure of one of them can originate cascading effects which might have serious and disastrous impact on others, even geographically far, infrastructures. The ex change of information about vulnerabilities, threats, count ermeasures among the different actors of such interleaved systems assumes a not negligible role in the prevention of continental disasters Due to their intrinsic nature, such information has to be considered strongly confidential and sensitive. Cope with the two needs of “share information” preserving the “confidentiality” according to some criteria, is the big obstacle in the creation of effective critical infrastructure information sharing networks In this paper we present an extension of the well known Trustnegotiation framework, which allows to address the confidentiality problem in the context of information sharin g for critical infrastructures I I NTRODUCTION N the recent years, the problem of energy production and transmission has become more and more relevant. The actual scenario in this field can be described as a complex graph of interleaved entities producing and exchanging energy at international, national and regional level. In order to well support such critical infrastructure, the different entities playing a role it its functioning, s hould be able to exchange information about production, c ontrol, policies, prices energy market National initiatives for establishing trust and collaboration among entities managing such critical infrastructures exist already. Several can be the examples: in the United Kingdom the National Infrastructure S ecurity Coordination Center NISCC\otes different information exchange networks in critical sectors like aviation, service providers, telecoms Industrial SCADA control systems. At the same way, the Swedish Emergency Manageme and the Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik  in Germany are encouraging the creation of some sharing network in all those fields which can be considered of critical interest. As anachronistic could seems, usually such information exchanges at the moment take place in physical meetings, while in few of these initiatives the ICT technologies are massively used. The exchange of such Manuscript received  August 28, 2008. This research was partly funded by EU IP IST-015964 Aeolus A. Trombetta and S. Braghin are w ith Dipartimento di Informatica Comunicazione, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy  \(e-mail alberto.trombetta@uninsubria.it stefano.braghin@uninsubria.it I. Nai Fovino is with JRC – European Commission – Institute for the Protection and Security of the Citizen \(IPSC e-mail: igor.nai@jrc.it information, considering their criticality, is usually regulated by strong confidentiality and disclosure constraints. The few electronic communication systems in the use requires a strong involvement of human actors, main ly in defining the level of trust of the other actors, and the level of disclosure to be assigned to a target information So, if from one hand the relevance of an information sharing infrastructure is well understood in Europe, the technological base for such part nership and for an efficient and modern information exchange is still to be built. The main problem in building this t echnological base is the lack of a computerized system suppor ting the \(semi-\ated establishment of trust among the parties involved in the information exchange In the recent years Trust Management TM\e a very active and relevant research area    developing – among other thi ngs – efficient techniques aiming at the automated negotiation of a proper level of trust among \(initially\utually trusted parties. Usually, this is needed since a party may request access to a resource owned by another party and there is no shared policy regulating resource access. Nevertheless, parties are assumed to possibly have local policies. Aim of TM – an of the Trust Negotiation sub-field in particular – is to build such shared policy starting from parties’ local policies. Thus, the result of a trust negotiation is a yes/no answer to an initial request of resource’s access, given that the parties’ local policies allow for a definition of a shared policy. At the present moment trust negotiation techniques consider a resource as a indivisible whole no further decomposable in many sub-resources However, in a complex environment – such as the critical infrastructure information exchange scenario depicted above resources are composed by many sub-resources with complex interrelations among them. As an example, consider as resource to be accessed a complex attack tree, carrying information about hundreds of possible attack scenarios and the hierarchical relationships among them. Even more important, the fact that a party does not fully satisfy an access policy for a given complex resource does not necessarily implies a complete refusal for the access to it. Rather, it well the case that the party may access a given sub-part of the initially requested resource. In our example, upon a request for accessing a given attack tree, the credentials provided by the party may not be enough to fulfill such request, but enough for viewing a sub-tree of the full attack tree It is not a trivial task to pr ovide such functionalities, given the current state of the existing trust negotiation approaches Advanced Trust Negotiation in Critical Infrastructures Stefano Braghin, Igor Nai Fovino, and Alberto Trombetta I 


In this paper we present an extended version of a well-known trust negotiation language in order to deal with such flexible negotiations, in which \(components of depends on the parties’ local policies and such components can be established during the trust negotiation execution II M OTIVATING SCENARIO The context we are describing is related to a community of Energy infrastructure actors”. In the following a brief description of the differe nt actors is given Government Authorities a government authority is the national entity directly dependent from the national government entitled to control the national operators, to regulate the Energy normative a nd legislation, to interact with Foreign Government authorities in order to coordinate actions at international level. In our scenario different Government authorities can exist in the national context. Each one can directly interact with the other entities of the same country and only indirectly. There exists an exception: government authorities of different countries can interact. Moreover, every Government authority maintains a “table of trust” related to the authorities of other countries. Such a table obviously reflects the foreign politic of every country. On the basis of such table, the different authorities may have or not the access to selected portion of the information shared/requested Producers in this class fall all the industries producing Sw and Hw for Energy \(or more in general for industrial infrastructures \(Scada systems, field actuators etc Producers, can share information \(if they have some sort of common agreement \(it can be represented by a proper agreement certificate”\final users \(if the product the user have bought are under guarantee \(in this case we can speak of “guarantee certificate R and D under this class fall all the research centers universities etc. involved in the research in the field of critical infrastructure. Also in this case R&D can be groped into “consortiums” which can share all the information or only portions of information about their results. The R&D can be associated into mixed consortiums having partners like Producers, final Users etc End Users the End users are the owner of the critical infrastructures. They can share information with R&D with other E.U., with producers Generic Entity are entities which cannot be classified in one of the previous classes. Their level of information disclosure can be considered minimum The possible interactions between the actors described, can be extremely complex. The core of such interaction is obviously an exchange of information \(information flows which can have different level of sensibility and criticality. In the following, some example of such flows are shortly described Security information exchange of security knowledge related to new vulnerabilities hw, sw, architectural etc new attacks, new threats. Such information can be exchanged between End-users, between End-users and producers, etc. In any case, is evident how the same information can be posed under different disclosure constraints depending from the identity of the actor requiring the information International threats Government Authorities can for example exchange information about international threats, and then disclose partially such information to the companies based inside their national borders Common Policies Government Authorities could, for example, exchange information about common policies reach new agreements and then inform the national companies \(producers and end-users These few examples are sufficient to argue some desirable features a framework for the “Information sharing and exchange” should provide 1 A language allowing to express the policies and, more generally, the constraints which must be satisfied in order to request and obtain information 2 A set of mechanism allowing to define different level of trust, on the basis of which select which portion of the information can be released 3 An architecture allowing to implement a “Negotiation Mechanism” for the exchange of the information allowing to define such levels of trust 4 The possibility, for a group of actors, to elect a member able, in certain cases, to conduct the negotiation for the entire group \(The case of negotiation between government authorities could be an example The framework we present in this paper address such features III K NOWLEDGE CHARACTERIZATION The proposed framework has been conceived in order to share information about Power Grids, under a security and safety perspective. A relevant issue in an “Information Sharing Framework”, is related to the kind and to the format of the information to be shared  presented a comprehensive framework allowing to model both systems from an architectural, service oriented point of view\and security knowledge. We decided to adopt such compact modeling approach to model the information to be shared. A system or an architecture, is then modeled in term of components, services provided, relationship among components, and subsystems. At the same way, according to  odeled in term  of vulnerabilities, attacks and threats For major details about system and security knowledge modeling please refer to    


Fig. 1.  An example of XML document describing a simple attack tree A Related works Protocols have been thoroughly investigated in the context open systems Generally, the goal of trust nego tiation protocols is to enable two stranger entities to establis h mutual trust on-line. Such protocols however do not deal with P2P and have several limitations compared to our appr oach, in the sense that they do not provide a mean to reach an agreement on the initial target of the negotiation. For exam is presented a flexible authorization service for open systems that uses the technique of trust negotiation to broker access to resources without allowing the access to limited part of the resource or the service neither its re-nego tiation. To the best of our knowledge, there is no relevant work about the deployment of trust negotiation techniques within critical infrastructures environment Fig. 2.  An example of attack tree IV A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO T RUST N EGOTIATION Trust Negotiation TN for short 12 16 18 is an approach to automated trust bu ilding. More specifically is an interactive process where trust is established gradually by requesting and disclosing credentials. This differs from traditional authentication-based access control systems mainly because trust between strangers is established starting from parties’ properties. Moreover, each party can define access control and release policies to control outsiders’ access to their sensitive credentials. Since both parties have policies TN is appropriate for deployment in a P2P architecture. In the approaches to TN developed so far, two parties can establish trust directly without involving trusted third parties, other than credential issuers. TrustX    is a comprehensive XML-based system for TNs, specifically designed for a P2P environment. In TrustX both parties are equipped with the same functional modules, as a consequence can both drive the negotiation process being equally responsible for negotiation management. Additionally, each party can alternatively act as a requester or a resource controller in different negotiations V T HE NEGOTAITION LANGUAGE In this section will be presented one of the languages supported by TrustX then it will be presented the extension proposed to adapt the exposed language to the scenario presented in Section II The XML-based Resource Negotiation Language or X RNL for short, is a language to specify negotiation policies over resources of any kind The most interesting feature of X RNL, as compared to existing language for negotiations is the possibility to express group-based policies, in which resources belonging to more than one peer are involved A second interesting feature is the possibility to express policies involving resources. As such X RNL introduces a simple notation for specifying when the availability of a resource mentioned in a policy is going to be tested to guarantee the formula’s satisfaction. This approach allows peers to actually obtain stronger assurance about peers’ trust rather than only checking the validity of a statement Finally X RNL provides an interpretation of the language formulae in terms of states of peers. Intuitively, a peer state records which resources have been involved in a negotiation and to what degree \(e. g. requested or released\We define and elaborate on peers’ state transitions and highlight under which circumstances a peer state evolves. It is in development a prototype supporting the X RNL language realized in Java using the JXTA frame  We now give a formal presentation of the X RNL language components a Terms, Conditions and Formulae The basic elements of X RNL are represented by terms typically denoting resources provided by a peer conditions specifying constraints on resources; and formulae specifying under which conditions resources can be disclosed. Resources  are defined by means of a unique name res and a set AttrSet of qualifying attributes values. More precisely o Terms a term is an expression of the form res\(AttrSetCond  where res denotes a resource name AttSetCond is a possible empty set 


of attribute conditions and list is a possible empty list of sub-resource identifier, as defined as follows. We omit the square brackets if list is empty, indicating that the term is a so called atomic term or if contains all the possible component the resource res that means we omit them when we consider the resource completely o Conditions: if res is a resource name, then a condition cond on res is an expression of the form att op expr where att is an attribute name of res  opt is a standard binary operator chosen from   and expr is either a constant or a resource expression o Subresource lists: a subresource list is a list of subresources’ identifier of the form 1 l ist  v s s such as each i s  and  0 i s v where v is the cardinality of  the  subresources of the resource res  Each subresource i s is a term o Formulae: a \(boolean formula is recursively defined as follows a term t is a formula given a formula then  is a formula given formulae and then and are formulae A formula 1   u tt applies to the resources 12  n R R R if 1 R  2 R and n R are the resources names in terms 1  n tt  Example 5.1 Referring to the XML document shown in Fig. 1 we can use the following expressions 1 Library\(Type=”4 identifying the whole XML document 2 Library\(Type=”4 identifying the tags Name and Date, the first and the third respectively 3 Library\(Type=”4    1   Id=”13 identifying the content of the tag AttackTree with attribute Id=”13 A peer is denoted by a \(possible indexed\lowercase letter e.g p or p 1 A group of peers is denoted by a \(possibly indexed G or G 1 We refer to such expressions as peers’ identifiers and peer groups’ identifiers  The expression G.p denotes the peer p belonging to group G  b Weak/Strong formulae Given a formula 1   u tt over terms 1  u tt the expression 1   w u tt  1   u s tt  weak formula  strong formula  Weak and strong formulae mandate two alternative ways of checking whether the resources to which such formulae are applied, are effectively available. From now on, weak and strong formulae are referred simply as formulae c Quantification over peer  \(with cardinality restriction The expressions 1    u t x Gt  1     n u t x Gt for any n  and where 1   u tt is a formula quantified formulae Their intended meaning is that the former is true in the case all peers in group G satisfy formula 1   u tt whereas the latter is true in the case there are n or more peers in group G satisfying formula 1   u tt  Quantified formulae cannot be nested d Named formulae It is an expression of the form 1      pu tt where p is a peer identifier and 1   u tt is a formula. Intuitively, a named formula is true when it holds at the present state of the specified peer. Named formulae cannot be nested e Disclosure policy It is an expression of the form 1     pu t tt where p is a peer t is a term, complex or atomic, without conditions and 1   u tt is a \(quantified or named\ula. The meaning of such expression is that the owner of the policy releases the resource res associated with the term t to the peer p provided that formula 1   u tt holds in the state of peer p  f Rebate formula It is an expression of the form 1   k where each i is a term referring to the corresponding one in a previously exchanged disclosure policy, that means, given a previously exchanged disclosure policy 1    u t Rt where 11   uu tt t t   ku and 1 iik   j such that t ij The meaning of such expression is that the peer is offering a subset of the terms included in the formula of the disclosure policy, to access the term protected by the policy itself Up to now X RNL provides only two levels disclosure That is, a resource R can only be disclosured or not. As shown in Section II, there are very natural scenarios motivating the introduction of a more flexible way of disclosing complex resources. To achieve that, we introduce the concept of level of \(resource\ disclosure Definition 5.1 \(levels of \(resource\ disclosure Given a resource, or service R we define a series of levels of disclosure over R denoted by R 0  R 1  R 2  R v  Considering the composite resource R  r 1  r 2  r t where each r i is an atomic resource, the levels of disclosure can be seen as coverings over R where R 0  R and R v  The remaining levels are choose in a way to define a partial order among them In Examples 5.2 and 5.3 are shown two of the possible levels definitions Example 5.2 Considering the resource R defined in Fig. 1 identified with the term Library\(Type=”4 it is possible to define on it, for example, 5 levels of disclosure R 0  Library  Type = “4  1,2,3,4  R 1  Library  Type = “4  1,2,3  R 2  Library  Type = “4  1,2  R 3  Library  Type = “4  1  R 4  Example 5.3 Again, consider the resource R defined in Fig. 1, it is possible to define a different set of levels of disclosure, composed that time of 8 levels, as follows 


R 0  Library  Type = “4  1,2,3,4  R 1  Library  Type = “4  1,2  o R 2  Library  Type = “4  1  o R 3  Library  Type = “4  2  R 4  Library  Type = “4  3,4  o R 5  Library  Type = “4  3  o R 6  Library  Type = “4  4  R 7  A negotiation is a finite sequence of formulae, exchanged by the negotiation parties in order to achieve the disclosure of a resource R The negotiation is started by a party, called Requester asking to access the resource owned by the other party, called Controller The Controller replies sending to the counterpart the disclosure policies associated to the requested resource. For each terms used in the formulae of the disclosure policies, the Requester sends the corresponding disclosure policies. The same procedure is performed by the Controller on the terms in the formulae sent it by the Requester. Such operations are iteratively repeated until a set of terms is found with no disclosure policies associated and granting the disclosure of further terms up to the disclosure of the initial resource R If such set is no found, the negotiation terminates with a failure. The state of a peer keeps track of which resources the peer makes available to other peers, and whether the peer has released such resources. Also the state includes the identifies of the resources that the peer has requested from other peers, and whether the peer has obtained them Definition 5.2 \(Peer State A state of a peer p is a tuple  11 2 2     puu SRaRa Ra where a pair  ii Ra denotes the fact that resource R i has been associated to action a i  where a i takes values over the set requested  available  released  received  request  The satisfaction of a formula is evaluated respect with a peer state. A formula is satisfied in a peer state if the resources to which a formula applies are available in that state and if the resources’ attributes meet the conditions in the formula Definition 5.3 \(Formula satisfiability Given a formula 1   u tt we say that holds at Sp iff 1 There is a tuple of the form  i R available for each resource R i to which 1   u tt applies 1 2 For each resource R i the attribute conditions specified by the corresponding term t i in are satisfied by ‘s attribute values in AttrSet  g Weak assured formulae enforcement If a formula is denoted as weak is verified by checking the validity of the credential associated to the terms of the formula. That may mean checking the validity of X.509 certificates or of signed advertisement, depending on the environment of the negotiation h Strong assured formulae enforcement If a formula is denoted as strong the simple verification of the credential representing it, is not enough. That type of verification 1 That is, all the resource to which the formula applies are available in S p  requires that the actual presence of the resource is periodically verified. The frequency of the verification can be set by p at its discretion i Level of disclosure If the reply to the initial request of the resource R is of the form 12     u t Rt t where  the formula 12 1 2    uu t tttt t  it is possible for the initial requester to provide a subset of terms contained in in order to obtain at least a subset of the atomic resources composing R that the provider define as appropriate for the disclosured terms. The requester rebate with the rebate formula 12     k  constructed as described before. If the controller of the resource R accepts the offered terms as enough to disclosure the resource, it replies with a disclosure policy of the form 1    l k R where l R is the level of disclosure associated by the controller with the offered terms 1  k  That process is called level negotiation To be able to identify the level associate to a given subset of terms, we need to define some tools function Definition 5.4 \(Term evaluation function A term evaluation function is a function defined as follows  wT  Where T is the set of terms known by a party. Such function associates to each term t a value n expressing the importance” each party associate with the term t  Definition 5.5 \(Level of disclosure threshold function A level of disclosure threshold function is a function defined as follows  sL  Where L is a set of all disclosure levels. Such function associates a value to each disclosure level. The meaning of such association is to define a threshold above which the level can be disclosured. An example of the usage of what have just been described is shown in Ex. 5.4 Example 5.4 Let the attach tree shown in Fig. 1 be the resource controlled by a party called Controller C party called Requester R  R sends to C a request of the form Library  Type=”4  C replies with the disclosure policy related to Library  Type=”4  it be Library  Type=”4  1234     tt t t where the formula 1234 1 2 3 4     tt tt t t t t   R doesn’t own t 2 and t 3 or doesn’t want to disclose them to C it replies with the rebate formula 14 1 4   tt t t Following Fig.3 C identify as R 2 according to Example 5.2, the appropriate level of disclosure for the terms offered by R It replies with the new resource “requested” and the new associated disclosure policy Library  Type=”4   14   tt where 14 1 4   tt t t If C accept to access the offered level of disclosure over the resource R it replies with the disclosure policies associated to the involved terms. If it refuses it can try to offer more less terms or give up with the negotiation This is a conservative extension of the original language in the sense that, if there is no match between the disclosured 


policies in X RNL, then the negotiation fails, while in the newly proposed language it is possible to re-negotiate the originally requested resource Fig. 3.  Identifies the disclosure level for the terms offered by the counter-party VI C ONCLUSIONS The language described previously, satisfies the requirements presented in Section II for Critical Infrastructure Information Sharing Systems. In fact, such negotiation language enables to express exchange policies and constraints, introducing formal mechanisms allowing to assign different level of “trust” to the actors of the sharing network, on the basis of the required information. Moreover it allows to model the concept of partial information sharing i.e. the possibility to release only portions of a target information, on the basis of the identity and of he properties of the requesting actor.  By adopting such language it is possible to create a distribute network of peer “layered and clusterized” according to different kinds of characteristics They can freely and securely exchange information about C.I preserving at the same time the strong constraints related to the confidentiality of such information. Fig. 4 shows for example the case described in Section II: the peers are organized into “Country clusters”; they can negotiate and exchange directly some information with members of the same or different cluster, and indirectly by leaving the negotiation task to the Government Peers. The present work leaves obviously opened some questions which are typical and not definitively solved in the information sharing world I\the owner of a released information loses any control over the released copy, i.e. he cannot force the actor which receives the information to apply the same distribution criteria on such information while requested to distribute it by a third actor. \(II\ is, at the moment, prone to Data-Mining analysis attacks. In fact by using such techniques, could be possible for a malicious actor, to use information obtained “legally” in order to guess information for which he has not any access right Fig. 4.  High level Information Exchange Network schema The first problem could be solved for example by implementing some “reputation mechanism”, while for the second, some Statistical disclosure control and Privacy Preserving Data Mining mechanisms can be identified and applied. We plan for the future, to address such issues Moreover, we plan to implement a fully working peer-to-peer prototype of the present architecture, in order to conduct an extensive on field working test R EFERENCES  E. Bertino, E. Ferrari and A C Squicciarini. “Trust-X: A peer-to-peer framework for trust establishment IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data. Eng  16\(7\: 827-842, 2004  M Blaze J. Ioannidis and A. D. Kerom ytis E xperience with the keynote trust management system: Applications and future directions In iTrust pages 284-300, 2003  BSI – Bundestam t für sicherheit in der Inform ationstechnik Available http://www.bsi.bund.de/english/index.htm   JXTA™ Com m unity Projects. Available https://jxta.dev.java.net   A. Lee, M. Winslett, J. Basney and V Welch Traust a trust negotiation-based authorization service for open systems”, 2006  A. J. Lee and M. W i nslett. “Ope n problems for usable and secure open systems  M. Masera and I. Nai Fovino. “Modeli ng inform ation assets for security risk assessment in industrial settings”. In EICAR 2006  I. Nai Fovino and M. Masera Em e rgen t disservices in interdependent systems and system-of-systems”. In IEEE editor SMC October 2006  I Nai Fovino and M. Masera. “A service oriented approach to the assessment of infrastructure security”. In First Annual IFIP Working Group 11.10 International Federation for Information Processing  October 2006  I   Nai Fovino and M  Maser a Thr ough the descr i ption of attacks: a multidimensional view”. In 25 th International Conference on Computer Safety, Reliability and Security 2006  S Ruohom aa and L Kutvonen Tr u st m a nagem e nt sur v ey  I n  iTrust  pages 77-92, 2005  K. E. Seam ons, M. Winslett, T. Yu B. Smith, E. Child, J. Jacobson, H Mills and L. Yu. “Requirements for policy languages for trust negotiation”. In POLICY pages 68-79, 2002  SEMA Hom e Page. Available http://www.krisberedskapsmyndigheten.se/defaultEN224.aspx   A. C. Squicciarini, E. Bertino E. Ferrari, F. Paci and B M Thuraisingham. “PP-Trust-X: A sys tem for privacy preserving trust negotiation”. In POLICY pages 68-79, 2002  A. C. Squicciar ini, A. Tr om betta and E. Bertino, “Supporting robust and secure interactions in open domains through recovery of trust negotiations”. In ICDCS page 57, 2007  W  W i nsbor ough K Seam ons and V Jones  Autom ated tr ust negotiation”. Technical Report TR-2000-05, 24 2000  W  H. W i nsbor ough and N. Li. “Towar ds pr actical autom a ted tr ust negotiation”. In POLICY pages 92-103, 2002  M  W i nslett. “An intr oduction to tr ust negotiation I n  iTrust pages 275-283, 2003  T Yu Autom ated Tr ust Establishm ent in Open System s”, PhD thesis University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2003 


throughout the complete spacecraft lifecycle To solve this problem a consistent simulation framework is essential for software IV&V at each phase in the spacecraft lifecycle This framework will guide our future software IV&V activities 7 Software process improvement 8 modelbased development and avionics architecture research are also underway Technical Collaborations International collaboration with other IV&V facilities such as NASA 9 and ESA 10 is also essential to improve our software IV&V process and to perform international collaborative missions Our technologies are open to the public in the space community and spacecraft development teams and contractors can use them Actually several technologies have been adopted already by some teams and contractors Currently these technologies are under consideration for adoption in the automobile and electronic controls and systems domains Effectiveness has already been recognized in several systems and development phases Our software IV&V is under consideration for insertion into the software quality assurance process at JAXA 5 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK To help each spacecraft mission to be successful by minimizing risks in complex software we have applied software IV&V to various spacecraft systems and subsystems in JAXA We are now developing and implementing techniques for software IV&V to achieve appropriate and tailored levels of mission criticality and risk for each spacecraft The software IV&V will be applied to provide the necessary scope and levels of assurance through the development REFERENCES 1 JAXA Vision JAXA 2025Web site http://www.jaxa.jp/about/2025/index_e.html 2 ISO/IEC9126 Software engineering Product quality 3 Robyn R Lutz Targeting Safety-Related Errors During Software Requirement Analysis Journal of Systems and Software Vol.34 Issue.3 p.223-230 1996 4 Nancy G Leveson Jon D Reese Mats P.E.Heimdahl SpecTRM A CAD System for Digital Automation Digital Avionics Systems Conference Proceedings 17th DASC The AIAA/IEEE/SAE Vol.1 B52/1-B52/8 1998 5 Johan Bengtsson Kim G Larsen Fredrik Larsson Paul Pettersson Wang Yi UPPAAL a Tool Suite for Automatic Verification of Real-Time Systems In Proceeding of the 4th DIMACS Workshop on Verification and Control of Hybrid Systems 1995 6 Yuko Miyamoto Haruka Nakao Dan Port Strategic Planning of IV&V for Space System Software Data Systems in Aerospace 2007 7 Naohiko Kohtake Yuko Miyamoto Masafumi Katahira Needs Analysis for Simulation Framework throughout Spacecraft Life Cycle 9th International Workshop on Simulation for European Space Programmes 2006 8 Fabio Bella Dirk Hamann Juirgen Munch Masa Katahira Yuko Miyamoto Makoto Shizunaga Software Process Definition for Multi-organizational Development in the Aerospace Domain International Conference on Software  Systems Engineering and their Applications 2006 9 Frederick D Gregory NASA Software Independent Verification and Validation IV&V An Upfront Approach to Mission Success Data Systems in Aerospace 1997 10 Frode Hogerg Narve Mjos Poul Gougaard Ricardo Maia Leslie Baldwin Patricia Rodriguez Kjeld Hjortnaes ISVV Process  Facility Project Data Systems in Aerospace 2005 7 


BIOGRAPHY Dr Naohiko Kohtake is an associated senior engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He was engaged in research and development on avionics systems fr H-IIA launch vehicle at NASDA and ubiquitous cmuting systems at Keio University He was also involved in research for on-board software at European Space Agency and user interface at Sony Computer Science Laboratories as a visiting researcher Presently he is working on software IV&V and related research He received B.E M.E and Ph.D from Keio University He is a member of the IEEE and a visiting lecturer at University of Tsukuba Atsushi Katoh is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He worked on realtime operating system at Fujitsu as a member of the Real-time Operating System Nucleus TRON project and software IV&V support at Japan Manned Space Systems Corporation He is involved in software IV&V and several software verification and validation research projects He received B.E M.E from Kumamoto University Tomomi Kawasaki is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA She worked on several space science researches at Institute of Space and Astronautical Science ISAS Se is involved in software IV&V and FPGA quality assurance research Masafumi Katahira is a senior engineer and a team leader of the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA Hie worked on satellite operations and development of JEM and H-IIA launch vehicle at NASDA and complex systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology He is engaged in software IV&V software process improvement and real-time operating system for spacecraft He received B.E from Aoyama Gakuin University and M.E from Florida Institute of Technology He is a member of the IEEE Naoki Ishihama is an associated senior engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He worked on technical support for software development of several satellites at NASDA He is involved in development of real-time operating system for spacecraft and software IV&V He received B.E from Keio University and M.E from University of Tokyo He is a member of the IEEE Yuko Miyamoto is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA She is working on software process improvement and software IV&V She received B.S M.S from University of Tsukuba 8 


  9 corrections. With several concurrent development processes, ops personnel could be members of more than one virtual team simultaneously. Various strategies such as sequence specific email aliases and automated software configuration were devel oped to ease confusion from sequence to sequence Aftermarket and SOP Update 227Since the initial round of integration and implementation was begun two years before reaching Saturn, a two-step update phase was included to incorporate new discoveries, respond to instrument performance changes, and design to the latest navigation ephemerides. The record of planned activities from SOP was retained in the CIMS database. During Aftermarket, the previous integration was revisited and revised. SOP Update during which the commanding for pointing and for management of shared resources such as power and data volume was reworked and revalidated, followed Aftermarket Sequencing 227 The final sequence development phase Science and Sequence Update Process \(SSUP began 10 weeks before start of execu tion. The commanding carried forward from SOPU received its final refinements and validation. Instrument internal commanding was added during this stage of development, expanding the roster of participants as the focus shifted from science design to instrument operation. The vector commands for attitude control were also generated and merged into the sequence providing the first realistic estimate of sequence size Since the sequence contains tens of thousands of commands, ensuring its validity was laborious. Because the command sequence represents merged commanding from each of the instruments a nd from each of the spacecraft subsystems, configuration ma nagement was required to insure that all parties were aware of changes potentially impacting them and that no changes were made without appropriate validation. Late in this stage of development changes were restricted to those related to maintaining flight assets health and safety. Novel or particularly complex activities were simulated in one or more of the available testbeds. The highest fide lity modeling was accomplished with a hardware-in-the-loop simulator, the Integrated Test Laboratory \(ITL\with engineering versions of the flight processors and flight software the same as on-board the spacecraft Over the lengthy time to plan the activities and develop the commands, the precise timing of geometric opportunities sometimes shifted. Several constructs to accommodate those shifts were introduced. In the one employed during SSUP called a ground movable block, a cluster of observations was shifted together within a window to reflect a timing change in a key event such as closest approach to a body Execution 227Uplink of the background sequence and the loads of instrument expanded blocks required several DSN passes since the files were large and had to be verified once on board. Days that included other Earth-pointed activity such as OTMs were avoided. This expanded the overlap of the old and new background sequences over enough days that careful memory management was required to fit both in onboard memory. In some cases, the new sequence was too large and needed to be split in to two pieces with the second uplinked as the first piece neared completion Once the sequence was executi ng, additional real-time commands and mini-sequences were uplinked for timing adjustments, OTMs, and other engineering activities requiring state verification be fore issuance. Instrument internal commands could be also be uplinked directly without involvement of the sequence team at JPL using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP During execution, there were two ways of accommodating late changes to timing or geometry. One, a live moveable block, was similar to the ground version except that the size of the timing shift was not determined until after the sequence had begun executing. The other, called a live vector update, redirected the pointing in inertial space by redefining the vectors that control attitude. Although this was a straightforward mechanism for altering pointing in response to later, better knowledge of spacecraft position the process took several days and considerable effort. So extensive analysis was require d to carefully place potential updates where they could be most effective 6  L ESSONS L EARNED  Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed in overcoming those challenges should be of value to other deep space science missions, including the next Outer Planets flagship mission. Some of the lessons cover design decisions, both those that facilitated operations and should be carried forward for future consideration and those that complicated operations and should be avoided Others reflect ways in which flight experience differed from expectations. The discussion with resulting recommendations for future missions is divided into three categories: flight system, ground system, and programmatic Flight System Operational modes 227 Spacecraft operational modes were used to define a limited number of power mode states for the instruments and engineering subsystems. The states were developed in conjunction with project science and the engineering office to enable synergistic and cooperative science data collection. The use of operational modes eliminated the need to perform unique thermal modeling on a sequence-by-sequence basis. The thermal and power configurations for each of th e limited number of operational modes were fully tested only once for operational use. As such, there was no need to va lidate and check the power and 


  10 thermal state of the spacecraft during sequence development. However, on a very limited number of occasions, unique power m odes were necessary to accomplish the science data acquisition plan. In these situations, thermal modeling was necessary during sequence development. The a priori restriction on the use of unique power modes was limited to 5% of the total power modes used throughout the mission. In reality, the operational experience was about 1 Telemetry Modes 227 The volume of science data from the instrument is a function of the science data pickup rates specified for each instrument The science instruments can easily exceed the total bandwid th capabilities for the flight system, so the maximum data pickup rates need to be limited depending on the acquisition of the science plan The Cassini mission restricted th e instrument data rates by developing a limited number of telemetry modes where the maximum data pickup rate for each instrument is specified Project science worked with the science teams to develop the data pickup rate for each telemetry mode based on the synergistic science data collection Memory Management 227 The on-board memory management for Cassini significantly simplifies the managing of backgrounds seque nces and mini-sequences The flight software has the capability to run 64 different programs \(sequence, delayed action commands, etc once. This significantly simplifies the development and coordination required for the live updates and OTM processes. Also, the on-board memory management allows for sequences that are too large to fit in the on-board memory to be split into pieces Guidance and Control 227 The AACS subsystem uses an Internal Vector Propagation \(IVP\for pointing the spacecraft at the science targets of interest. The ephemerides for the spacecraft and the various science targets are stored as polynomial vectors and propagated on board the spacecraft for easy retrieval a nd updating. This approach significantly simplifies the ability to perform live pointing vector updates during sequence execution when the spacecraft knowledge to better known. An update to a single vector, or a couple of vectors is all that is needed to correctly target upcoming science observations Command and Data Handling 227 The Command and Data Subsystem \(CDS features that simplified operations. Among these were onboard science instrument data policing, ability to remove bad solid-state recorder \(SSR\odules, and a variety of onboard science modules that control science pointing commands \(e.g., limb scans, ring tracking, mosaics\and their corresponding instrument triggers. One of the more powerful capabilities on-board th e spacecraft was the data policing, which controls the amount of science instrument data that can be recorded on-board the solid state \(SSR recorder. Once data volume wa s allocated to the science instrument teams on a daily basis in the planning process data policing prevented any team from using more data than allocated if compression or instrument internal commanding goes awry. This eliminates any need for ground intervention to prevent SSR overruns during sequence execution High-priority science playback 227 Insuring receipt of highpriority science data in the event of a DSN station problem requires a priori commanding in the background sequence for dual, playbacks of this data. This requires a considerable amount of planning and SSR pointer management and commanding to achieve the protection of this data. A filebased SSR, and/or a CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP capability would have simplifie d the redundant playback of high-priority science data No Scan Platform 227 The lack of a scan platform significantly increased the operations complexity of the mission. Without a scan platform the pointing of the optical remote sensing instruments was coupled with the pointing of the fields and particles instruments. This more than doubled the competition for th e spacecraft pointing. In addition, the total number of pointing constraints \(radiators and boresights\ncreased, dramatically reducing the amount of the 4 002 steradians of the celestial sphere that is available for spacecraft pointing. Th is required significant negotiations of the spacecraft attitude, both primary and secondary, during the science integration and implementation process Navigation 227 The Cassini spacecraft is navigated to a specific B\267T and B\267R for each targeted flyby Fixing the targeted flyby tie points increased the overall delta-V required to fly the mission but significantly simplified the science operations involved with planning the science observations taken with 261 30 minutes from closest approach. The trajectory was allowed to deviate between the targeted flyby tie-points, which required pointing vector updates for science observations outside of the targeted flyby \(see Guidance and Control above for a discussion of live pointing vector updates Another simplified operational approach used by Cassini is the just-in-time development of the Orbit Trim Maneuvers OTMs\e OTMs are built using mini-sequences that are overlaid and executed during the earth-pointed downlink periods planned in the background sequence Ground System  Science Operations System 227 A critical planning tool used to enable distributed operations was the Cassini Information Management System \(CIMS\This tool uses a web-based interface to the Cassini database that contains the current state of the integrated scien ce and engineering plan. CIMS is used throughout the sequencing life cycle on the mission from initial planning through execution. This system allowed the science instrument teams from around the world 


  11 to request, review, and propose changes to the current state of the science plan Distributed Operations 227 Cassini distributed all aspects of the instrument operations to the science teams. Science Teams were required to develop the spacecraft commanding for pointing the spacecraft. Th is significantly complicated the interfaces and coordination required by the JPL science and sequencing teams. The distribution of internal instrument commanding and monitoring instrument health and safety worked well. Dedicated full-time operations personnel were required at all instrument sites. The liaison between the distributed sites and JPL required definition of a strong JPL Investigation Scientist \(i.e., Experiment Representative\le Distributed operations is a two-edged sword. Scientists personally worked operations and were better able to optimize for their science objectives. Their insight provided the feedback necessary to quickly respond to science discoveries in the science selection and uplink processes This allowed the operations team to capitalize on truly extraordinary opportunities to a degree not thought possible However, this was at the cost of doing science analysis and publishing science results Software Development 227 The Cassini mission deferred most of its ground software development until post launch. In fact, considerable effort was spent accelerating the development of the tools required to plan the Jupiter flyby observations in 2001. For the start of the science integration for Cassini\222s prime mission, many of the ground software planning tools were immature or unavailable. To compensate, homegrown tool development occurred at the instrument sites and within science planning. System engineering of these types of ground software tools was lacking. A better paradigm would have been to develop the operations and ground system\222s architecture, requirements models, and software to a level sufficient to support operations pre-launch. Sufficient project resources needed to be applied to Phase B/C/D development. The science planning tools should be developed to a sufficient level during these phases such that th ey can be used as part of evaluating the ground and flight system requirements and capabilities. Based on this evaluation, refinements could be made during cruise and throughout the mission to the unified ground and flight system architecture and software requirements Programmatic  Project Science 227The orbiter consists of 8 Principal Investigator \(PI\struments and 4 Facility Instrument with corresponding Team Leads. In a ddition, there are 5 different science discipline teams: Rings, Saturn, Titan, Icy Satellites and Magnetosphere. The Project Science leader ship needed to be highly involved in the tactical and strategic science planning activities. The consensus building culture used on Cassini was time consuming. The Project Science support staff should be funded adequately to allow the Project Scientist to participate in the integration process. Clear Project Science guidelines are very helpful Instruments 227 Instrument Flight Rule development must be mature pre-launch. Instruments should be designed to minimize impacts on the operations of the other instruments, e.g., radiator placement. Data compression internal to instruments is vital. For Cassini, the science instruments had internal sequencing memory for storing instrument commanding for upcoming sequence. This allowed the science teams th e ability to send real-time noninteractive instrument commands that bypass the sequencing process by using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP  In-flight Testing 227 The targeted gravity assist flybys provided a unique opportunity to exercise the ground system on realistic science data acquisition scenarios that simulates the operational environment during the Tour phase of the prime mission. This also had the advantage of providing the science instrument teams an opportunity to acquire useful science data for the purposes of instrument checkout and science data analysis. The in-flight exercises should use the processes, procedures, software, and ground system capabilities in the same manner, to the extent possible, as will be used during Tour and Orbital operations The entire flight team \(mission planning, science planning sequencing, spacecraft, naviga tion, and science teams should be fully engaged to provide the maximum benefit to the Project 7  C ONCLUSION  Even though Cassini was a NASA flagship mission maximizing the science return was a challenge to science planning operations. Decisions aimed at saving both prelaunch and operations costs added considerable complexity to both the spacecraft and the ground system. Among the key ones were removing the scan platform, opting for distributed operations rather than co-location, and delaying development of some flight software and most of the ground system until after launch Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed to overcome those challenges as presented in this paper should be of value to other deep space science missions.  Future missions should carefully consider the following advice 200  Pay careful attention to operational scenarios in development cost saving decisions, both spacecraft and ground. Additional, more sophisticated commanding constructs may be required in operations to compensate for lack of spacecraft capabilities. Ground management of stressed or 


  12 degraded spacecraft components will be labor intensive   R EFERENCES    N. Vanderm ey and B G. Paczkowski 223The C a ssi ni Huygens Mission Overview,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Andrew M i shki n and B a rbara Larsen 223Im p l e m e nt i ng Distributed Operations: A Comparison of Two Deep Space Missions,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006 3 Barb ara Larsen 223Bu ilt Bu t No t Used Need ed  Bu t No t Built: Ground System Guidance Based On CassiniHuygens Experience,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Spi l k er, Li nda J \(edi t o r o  a R i nged Wold\224,NASA SP-533, 1997  Jennifer Long Maxwell, W illiam M Heventhal, III, and Shahram Javidnia, \223The Cassini-Huygens Sequence Development Process\224, 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Paczkowski  B G, \223C assi ni Sci e nce Pl anni ng Process\224 2004 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, May 17 21, 2004 200  Recognize that lack of margin in any resource required for science return will require compensatory staffing. Pr edefined, prevalidated options for resource management such a power modes can compensate. Tools that validate resource allocation are essential 200  Anticipate alternative costs for failing to meet MOS development schedules. The ground system needs to have reached sufficient maturity to support key operations tasks before those tasks commence 200  Distributed science operations introduces delays and complications to sequence development, which must be managed in science planning. System engineering will need to deal with overlap in and conflict between ground systems 200  Acknowledge that complexity in any form\227 spacecraft design, science objectives, MOS architecture\227may be managed to enhance science return but the science planning operations must be funded and structured to manage that complexity The processes to develop science commanding will be lengthy and highly iterative In the end, with an appropriate funding profile, adequate and timely staffing, and effective processes and tools all the facets of mission complexity can be managed to extract amazing science return 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work done by the Cassini-Huygens Flight and Science Teams. Without their efforts the unrivaled science collected by the Cassini mission would not have been achieved This work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technol ogy, under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  251 2008 California Institute of Technology. Government sponsorship acknowledged 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


States\nWAb-3.4: NEW RESULTS IN THE ANALYSIS OF DECISION-FEEDBACK 2118\nEQUALIZERS\nAhmed Mehana, Samsung Electronics, Co Ltd., United States; Aria Nosratinia, University of Texas at \nDallas, United States\nWAb-5: TARGET TRACKING II\nWAb-5.1: POSTERIOR DISTRIBUTION PREPROCESSING FOR PASSIVE 2125\nDTV RADAR TRACKING: SIMULATED AND REAL DATA\nEvan Hanusa, Laura Vertatschitsch, David Krout, University of Washington, United States\nWAb-5.2: DEPTH-BASED PASSIVE TRACKING OF SUBMERGED SOURCES  ............................................2130\nIN THE DEEP OCEAN USING A VERTICAL LINE ARRAY\nLisa Zurk, John K. Boyle, Jordan Shibley, Portland State University, United States\nWAb-5.3: GENERALIZED LINEAR MINIMUM MEAN-SQUARE ERROR 2133\nESTIMATION WITH APPLICATION TO SPACE-OBJECT TRACKING\nYu Liu, X. Rong Li, Huimin Chen, University of New Orleans, United States\nWAb-5.4: FEATURE-AIDED INITIATION AND TRACKING VIA TREE SEARCH ..........................................2138\nHossein Roufarshbaf Jill Nelson, George Mason University, United States\nxxxiii\nWAb-6: DIRECTION OF ARRIVAL ESTIMATION\nWAb-6.1: A SELF-CALIBRATION TECHNIQUE FOR DIRECTION 2145\nESTIMATION WITH DIVERSELY POLARIZED ARRAYS\nBenjamin Friedlander, University of California, Santa Cruz, United States\nWAb-6.2: CRAMER-RAO PERFORMANCE BOUNDS FOR SIMULTANEOUS  ..............................................2150\nTARGET AND MULTIPATH POSITIONING\nLi Li, Jeff Krolik, Duke University, United States\nWAb-6.3: COPY CORRELATION DIRECTION-OF-ARRIVAL ESTIMATION  .................................................2155\nPERFORMANCE WITH A STOCHASTIC WEIGHT VECTOR\nChrist Richmond, Keith Forsythe, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, United States; Christopher Flynn, Stevens nInstitute of Technology, United States\nWAb-6.4: LOCATING CLOSELY SPACED COHERENT EMITTERS USING 2160\nTDOA TECHNIQUES\nJack Reale, Air Force Research Laboratory / Binghamton University, United States; Lauren Huie, Air \nForce Research Laboratory, United States Mark Fowler, State University of New York at Binghamton, \nUnited States\nWAb-7: ENERGY- AND RELIABILITY-AWARE DESIGN\nWAb-7.1: LOW-ENERGY ARCHITECTURES FOR SUPPORT VECTOR 2167\nMACHINE COMPUTATION\nManohar Ayinala, Keshab K Parhi, University of Minnesota, United States\nWAb-7.2: TRUNCATED MULTIPLIERS THROUGH POWER-GATING FOR 2172\nDEGRADING PRECISION ARITHMETIC\nPietro Albicocco, Gian Carlo Cardarilli, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Italy; Alberto Nannarelli, \nTechnical University of Denmark Denmark; Massimo Petricca, Politecnico di Torino, Italy; Marco Re, \nUniversity of Rome Tor Vergata Italy\nWAb-7.3: A LOGARITHMIC APPROACH TO ENERGY-EFFICIENT GPU 2177\nARITHMETIC FOR MOBILE DEVICES\nMiguel Lastras Behrooz Parhami, University of California, Santa Barbara, United States\nWAb-7.4: ON SEPARABLE ERROR DETECTION FOR ADDITION ..................................................................2181\nMichael Sullivan, Earl Swartzlander, University of Texas at Austin, United States\nWPb-1: PAPERS PRESENTED IN 2012\nWPb-1.1 DYNAMICALLY RECONFIGURABLE AVC DEBLOCKING FILTER  .............................................2189\nWITH POWER AND PERFORMANCE CONSTRAINTS\nYuebing Jiang, Marios Pattichis, University of New Mexico\nxxxiv\n 


on science teams for numerous planetary missions including Magellan, Mars Observer, Mars Global Surveyor and Rosetta. He was the US Project Scientist for the international Mars NetLander mission, for which he was also principal investigator of the Short-Period Seismometer experiment, and is currently the Project Scientist for the Mars Exploration Rovers. He led the Geophysics and Planetary Geology group at JPL from 1993-2005, and is the JPL Discipline Program Manager for Planetary Geosciences. He has held several visiting appointments at the Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris. He has a BS in physics and a PhD in geophysics from the University of Southern California  David Hansen is a member of the technical staff in the Communications Systems and Operations Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of the telecom subsystem for the Juno project. David received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University  Robert Miyake is a member of the technical staff in the Mission and Technology Development Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes the development of thermal control subsystems for interplanetary flagship missions to Jupiter and Saturn missions to Mars and the Earth Moon, and is the lead Thermal Chair for the Advanced Project Design Team Robert graduated with a B. S. from San Jose State University, with extensive graduate studies at UCLA University of Washington, and University of Santa Clara  Steve Kondos is a consultant to the Structures and Mechanisms group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He currently is generating the mechanical concepts for small Lunar Landers and Lunar Science Instrument packages in support of various Lunar mission initiatives. He also provides conceptual design, mass and cost estimating support for various Team X studies as the lead for the Mechanical Subsystem Chair. Steve is also involved with various other studies and proposals and provides mentoring to several young mechanical and system engineers. He graduated with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California, Davis and has 28 years of experience in the aerospace field ranging from detail part design to system of systems architecture development. He has worked both in industry and in government in defense, intelligence commercial and civil activities that range from ocean and land based systems to airborne and space systems. Steve has received various NASA, Air Force, Department of Defense and other agency awards for his work on such projects as the NASA Solar Array Flight Experiment, Talon Gold, MILSTAR, Iridium, SBIRS, Mars Exploration Rovers ATFLIR, Glory Aerosol Polarimeter System and several Restricted Programs  Paul Timmerman is a senior member of technical staff in the Power Systems Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Twenty-five years of experience in spacecraft design including 22 at JPL, over 250 studies in Team-X, and numerous proposals. Current assignments include a wide variety of planetary mission concepts, covering all targets within the solar system and all mission classes. Paul graduated from Loras College with a B.S. in Chemistry in 1983  Vincent Randolph is a senior engineer in the Advanced Computer Systems and 


the Advanced Computer Systems and Technologies Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Current work includes generating Command and Data Handling Subsystem conceptual designs for various proposals and Team X.  He also supports Articulation Control and Electronics design activities for the Advanced Mirror Development project. Vincent graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering 18  pre></body></html 


i models into time and covariate dependent dynamic counterparts  ii models and reliability analysis in a more realistic manner  iii level  whether or not functional components \(loyal generals diagnose correctly and take proper actions such as fault mask of failed components \(traitors asymmetric  iv survivability analysis. Evolutionary game modeling can derive sustainable or survivable strategies \(mapped from the ESS in EGT such as node failures such as security compromise level modeling in the so-called three-layer survivability analysis developed in Ma \(2008a this article  v offer an integrated architecture that unite reliability survivability, and fault tolerance, and the modeling approaches with survival analysis and evolutionary game theory implement this architecture. Finally, the dynamic hybrid fault models, when utilized to describe the survival of players in EGT, enhance the EGT's flexibility and power in modeling the survival and behaviors of the game players which should also be applicable to other problem domains where EGT is applicable  5. OPERATIONAL LEVEL MODELING AND DECISION-MAKING  5.1. Highlights of the Tactical and Strategic Levels  Let's first summarize what are obtainable at both tactical and strategic levels. The results at both tactical and strategic levels are precisely obtainable either via analytic or simulation optimization. With the term precisely, we mean that there is no need to assign subjective probabilities to UUUR events. This is possible because we try to assess the consequences of UUUR events \(tactical level ESS strategies \(strategic level time prediction of survivability. The following is a list of specific points. I use an assumed Wireless Sensor Network WSN  i of UUUR events: \(a actions which can be treated as censored events; \(b Cont' of Box 4.2 It can be shown that the replicator differential equations are equivalent to the classical population dynamics models such as Logistic differential equation and LotkaVolterra equation \(e.g., Kot 2001 Logistic equation, or the limited per capital growth rate is similar to the change rate of the fitness  xfxfi which can be represented with the hazard function or survivor functions introduced in the previous section on survival analysis.  This essentially connects the previous survival analysis modeling for lifetime and reliability with the EGT modeling. However, EGT provides additional modeling power beyond population dynamics or survival analysis approaches introduced in the previous section. The introduction of evolutionary theory makes the games played by a population evolvable. In other words, each player \(individual 


other words, each player \(individual agent and players interact with each other to evolve an optimized system Box 4.3. Additional Comments on DHF Models  The above introduced EGT models are very general given they are the system of ordinary differential equations. Furthermore, the choice of fitness function f\(x complexity to the differential equation system.  The system can easily be turned into system of nonlinear differential equations. The analytical solution to the models may be unobtainable when nonlinear differential equations are involved and simulation and/or numerical computation are often required  In the EGT modeling, Byzantine generals are the game players, and hybrid fault models are conveniently expressed as the strategies of players; the players may have different failure or communication behaviors Furthermore, players can be further divided into groups or subpopulations to formulate more complex network organizations. In the EGT modeling, reliability can be represented as the payoff \(fitness, the native term in EGT of the game. Because reliability function can be replaced by survivor function, survival analysis is seamlessly integrated into the EGT modeling. That is, let Byzantine generals play evolutionary games and their fitness reliability function  The evolutionary stable strategy \(ESS counterpart of Nash equilibrium in traditional games ESS corresponds to sustainable strategies, which are resistant to both internal mutations \(such as turning into treason generals or nodes such as security compromises represent survivable strategies and survivability in survivability analysis. Therefore, dynamic hybrid fault models, after the extension with EGT modeling, can be used to study both reliability and survivability 13 risks such as competing risks which can be described with CRA; \(c captured with the shard frailty.  We believe that these UUUR events are sufficiently general to capture the major factors/events in reliability, security and survivability whose occurrence probabilities are hard or impossible to obtain  Instead of trying to obtain the probabilities for these events which are infeasible in most occasions, we focus on analyzing the consequences of the events.  With survival analysis, it is possible to analyze the effects of these types of events on survivor functions. In addition, spatial frailty modeling can be utilized to capture the heterogeneity of risks in space, or the spatial distribution of risks \(Ma 2008a d UUUR events introduced previously. These approaches and models that deal with the effects of UUUR events form the core of tactical level modeling  To take advantage of the tactical level modeling approaches it is obviously necessary to stick to the survivor functions or hazard functions models. In other words, survival analysis can deal with UUUR events and offer every features reliability function provides, but reliability function cannot deal with UUUR events although survivor function and reliability function have the exactly same mathematical definition. This is the junction that survival analysis plays critical role in survivability analysis at tactical level. However, we 


recognize that it is infeasible to get a simple metric for survivability similar to reliability with tactical level modeling alone. Actually, up to this point, we are still vague for the measurement of survivability or a metric for survivability. We have not answered the question: what is our metric for survivability? We think that a precise or rigorous definition of survivability at tactical level is not feasible, due to the same reason we cited previously  the inability to determine the probabilities of UUUR events However, we consider it is very helpful to define a work definition for survivability at the tactical level  We therefore define the survivability at tactical level as a metric, Su\(t t function or reliability function with UUUR events considered. In the framework of three-layer survivability analysis, this metric is what we mean with the term survivability. The "metric" per se is not the focus of the three-layer survivability analysis. It is not very informative without the supports from the next two levels  strategic and operational models.  However, it is obvious that this metric sets a foundation to incorporate UUUR effects in the modeling at the next two levels  Due to the inadequacy of tactical level modeling, we proposed the next level approach  strategic level modeling for survivability. As expected, the tactical level is one foundation of strategic level modeling ii objectives: \(a affect survivability which survival analysis alone is not adequate to deal with; \(b survivability at tactical level is necessary but not sufficient for modeling survivability, we need to define what is meant with the term survivability at strategic level  With regard to \(a behaviors or modes which have very different consequences. These failure behaviors can be captured with hybrid fault models. However, the existing hybrid fault models in fault tolerance field are not adequate for applying to survivability analysis. There are two issues involved: one is the lack of real time notion in the constraints for hybrid fault models \(e.g., N&gt;3m+1 for Byzantine Generals problem synthesize the models after the real-time notions are introduced. The solution we proposed for the first issue is the dynamic hybrid fault models, which integrate survivor functions with traditional hybrid fault models. The solution we proposed for the second issue is the introduction of EGT modeling  With regard to \(b modeling our problem at strategic level, EGT modeling is essentially a powerful optimization algorithm.  One of the most important results from EGT modeling is the so-called evolutionary stable strategies \(ESS We map the ESS in EGT to survivable strategies in survivability analysis.   Therefore, at the strategic level, our work definition for survivability refers to the survivable strategies or sustainable strategies in the native term of EGT, which can be quantified with ESS  In addition to integrating dynamic hybrid fault models another advantage for introducing EGT modeling at strategic level is the flexibility for incorporating other node behaviors \(such as cooperative vs. non-cooperative those behaviors specified in standard hybrid fault models, as well as anthropocentric factors such as costs constraints  Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level 


Without UUUR events, both tactical and strategic level models default to regular reliability models. This implies that, in the absence of UUUR events, reliable strategies are sustainable or survivable.  This also implies that three-layer survivability analysis defaults to reliability analysis however, the three-layer approach does offer some significant advantages over traditional reliability analysis, as discussed in previous sections. Nevertheless, when UUUR events exist, reliable strategies and survivable strategies are different. This necessitates the next operational level modeling  5.2. Operational Level Modeling and Decision-Making  When UUUR events are involved, we cannot make real time predictions of survivability at tactical and strategic levels This implies that the implementations of survivable 14 strategies need additional measures that we develop in this section.  Box 5.1 explains the ideas involved with possibly the simplest example  Figure 4 is a diagram showing a simplified relationship between action threshold survivability \(TS survivability \(ES view since both TS and ES are multidimensional and dynamic in practice. Therefore, the sole purpose of the diagram is to illustrate the major concepts discussed above The blue curve is the survivability when survivable strategies specified by ESS are implemented at some point before time s.  The system is then guaranteed to hold survivability above ES. In contrary, if no ESS implemented before time s, then the system quickly falls below to the survivable level at around 40 time units  T i m e 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 0 0 Su rv iv ab ili ty M et ric S u t 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 . 2 0 . 3 0 . 4 0 . 5 0 . 6 0 . 7 0 . 8 0 . 9 1 . 0 E S S  i s  I m p lm e n t e d N o  E S S  is  I m p lm e n t e d ts E S T S  Figure 4. A Diagram Showing the Relationship Between TS and ES, as well as timing of s and t, with s &lt; t  6. SUMMARY  The previous sections discussed the major building blocks 


The previous sections discussed the major building blocks for the new life-system inspired PHM architecture. This section first identifies a few minor aspects that have not been discussed explicitly but are necessary for the implementation of the architecture, and then we summarize the major building blocks in a diagram  6.1. Missing Components and Links  Optimization Objectives  Lifetime, reliability, fault tolerance, and survivability, especially the latter two, are application dependent. Generally, the optimization of reliability and survivability are consistent; in that maximization of reliability also implies maximization of survivability. However, when application detail is considered, optimization of lifetime is not necessarily consistent with the optimization of reliability. Consider the case of the monitoring sensor network as an example. The network reliability is also dependent on connectivity coverage, etc, besides network lifetime. What may be further complicated is the time factor. All of the network metrics are time-dependent. A paradoxical situation between lifetime and reliability could be that nodes never 'sleep                                                   


          Box 5.1 Operational Level Modeling  Assuming that the ESS solution for a monitoring sensor network can be expressed with the following simple algebraic conditions: survivability metric at tactical level SU = 0.7, Router-Nodes in the WSN &gt; 10%, Selfish Nodes &lt; 40%. Even with this extremely simplified scenario, the ESS strategies cannot be implemented because we do not know when the actions should be taken to warrant a sustainable system.  These conditions lack a correlation with real time  The inability to implement ESS is rooted in our inability to assign definite probabilities to UUUR events, which implies that we cannot predict when something sufficiently bad will jeopardize the system survivability What we need at the operational level is a scheme to ensure ESS strategy is in place in advance  The fundamental idea we use to implement the ESS strategy is to hedge against the UUUR events. The similar idea has been used in financial engineering and also in integrated pest management in entomology. This can be implemented with the following scheme  Let us define a pair of survivability metrics: one is the expected survivability \(ES threshold survivability or simply threshold survivability \(TS ES is equivalent to the survivability metric at tactical level. ES corresponds to ESS at strategic level, but they are not equivalent since ESS is strategy and ES is survivability. TS is the survivability metric value \(at tactical level and TS can be obtained from strategic level models. For example, TS = SU\(s t condition for the implementation of ESS. In other words, the implementation of strategies that ensures TS at time s will guarantee the future ES level at time t.  To make the implementation more reliable and convenient multiple dynamic TSs can be computed at time s1, s2 sk, with si &lt; t for all i.  These TS at times s1, s2, ..., sk should be monitored by some evaluation systems  Unlike tactical and strategic levels, the operational level modeling is approximate. The term "approximate means that we cannot predict the real time survivability or we do not know the exact time an action should be taken. Instead, the action is triggered when the monitored survivability metric SU\(r survivability \(TS scheme of TS and ES, we ensure the ES by taking preventative actions \(prescribed by ESS and triggered by the TS consequences of UUUR events  Figure 4 is a diagram showing the above concepts and the decision-making process involved 15 This wakefulness \(never 'sleep short period but at the expense of network lifetime. Of course, when the network is running out of lifetime, network reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that 


reliability ultimately crashes. This example reminds us that multi-objective optimization should be the norm rather than exception  Constraints and Extensions  Many application specific factors and constraints are ignored in this article. For example, we mentioned about spatial heterogeneity of environment, but never present a mathematical description The spatial heterogeneity can be modeled with the so-called spatial frailty in multivariate survival analysis \(Ma 2008a  Evolutionary Algorithm  Evolutionary game modeling when implemented in simulation, can be conveniently implemented with an algorithm similar to Genetic Algorithms \(GA ESS in the evolutionary game model with simulation is very similar to GA. Dynamic populations, in which population size varies from generation to generation \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008f of node failures. Another issue to be addressed is the synchronous vs. asynchronous updating when topology is considered in the simulation. This update scheme can have profound influences on the results of the simulation. Results from cellular automata computing should be very useful for getting insights on the update issue  6.2. Summary and Perspective  To recapture the major points of the article, let us revisit Figure 3, which summarizes the principal modules of the proposed life-system inspired PHM architecture. The main inspiration from life systems is the notion of individuals and their assemblage, the population. Population is an emergent entity at the next level and it has emergent properties which we are often more concerned with. Survival analysis, which has become a de facto standard in biomedicine, is particularly suitable for modeling population, although it is equally appropriate at individual level. Therefore, survival analysis \(including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis comprehensively in the context of PHM in a series of four papers presented at IEEE AeroSpace 2008 \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008a, b, c, &amp; d proposed architecture. Survival analysis constitutes the major mathematical tools for analyzing lifetime and reliability, and also forms the tactical level of the three-layer survivability analysis  Besides lifetime and reliability, two other major modules in Figure 3 are fault tolerance and survivability. To integrate fault tolerance into the PHM system, Dynamic Hybrid Fault DHF 2008e, Ma 2008a make real-time prediction of reliability more realistic and make real-time prediction of fault tolerance level possible DHF models also unite lifetime, reliability and fault tolerance under a unified modeling framework that consists of survival analysis and evolutionary game theory modeling  DHG models also form the partial foundation, or strategic level, for the three-layer survivability analysis. At the strategic level, the Evolutionary Stable Strategies \(ESS which is mapped to survivable or sustainable strategies, can be obtained from the evolutionary game theory based DHF models. When there is not any UUUR event involved reliability and survivability are consistent, and reliable strategies are survivable. In this case, the strategic level modeling up to this point is sufficient for the whole PHM system modeling, and there is no need for the next level  operational level modeling  When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the 


When there are UUUR events in a PHM system, the inability to determine the occurrence probabilities of UUUR events makes the operational level modeling necessary Then the principle of hedging must be utilized to deal with the "hanging" uncertainty from UUUR events. In this case reliability strategies are not necessarily survivable strategies At the operational level modeling, a duo of survivability metrics, expected survivability \(ES survivability \(TS the survivable strategies \(ESS level are promptly implemented based on the decisionmaking rules specified with the duo of survivability metrics then the PHM system should be able to endure the consequences of potentially catastrophic UUUR events. Of course, to endure such catastrophic events, the cost may be prohibitively high, but the PHM system will, at least, warn decision-makers for the potentially huge costs.  It might be cheap to just let it fail  Figure 3 also shows several other modules, such as security safety, application systems \(such as Automatic Logistics CBM+, RCM, Life cycle cost management, Real-time warning and alert systems architectures, but we do not discuss in this paper. Generally the new architecture should be fully compatible with existing ones in incorporating these additional modules. One point we stressed is that PHM system can be an ideal place to enforce security policies. Enforcing security policies can be mandatory for PHM systems that demand high security and safety such as weapon systems or nuclear plant facilities.  This is because maintenance, even without human-initiated security breaches, can break the security policies if the maintenance is not planned and performed properly  In perspective, although I did not discuss software issues in this paper, the introduced approaches and models should provide sufficient tools for modeling software reliability and survivability with some additional extension. Given the critical importance of software to modern PHM systems, we present the following discussion on the potential extension to software domain. Specifically, two points should be noted: \(1 architecture to software should be a metric which can 16 replace the time notion in software reliability; I suggest that the Kolmogorov complexity \(e.g., Li and Vitanyi 1997 be a promising candidate \(Ma 2008a change is because software does not wear and calendar time for software reliability usually does not make much sense 2 software reliability modeling.  Extending to general survivability analysis is not a problem either. In this article I implicitly assume that reliability and survivability are positively correlated, or reliability is the foundation of survivability. This positive correlation does not have to be the case. A simplified example that illustrates this point is the 'limit order' in online stock trading, in which limit order can be used in either direction: that stock price is rising or falling.  The solution to allow negative or uncorrelated relationships between reliability and survivability are very straightforward, and the solutions are already identified in previous discussions. Specifically, multiple G-functions and multi-stage G-functions by Vincent and Brown \(2005 very feasible solution, because lifetime, reliability and survivability may simply be represented with multiple Gfunctions. Another potential solution is the accommodation of the potential conflicts between reliability and survivability with multi-objective GA algorithms, which I previously suggested to be used as updating algorithms in the optimization of evolutionary games  


 The integration of dynamic hybrid fault models with evolutionary game modeling allows one to incorporate more realistic and detailed failure \(or survival individual players in an evolutionary game. This is because dynamic hybrid fault models are supported by survival analysis modeling, e.g., time and covariate dependent hazard or survivor functions for individual players. If necessary, more complex survival analysis modeling including competing risks analysis and multivariate survival analysis, can be introduced.  Therefore, any field to which evolutionary game theory is applicable may benefit from the increased flexibility in modeling individual players.  Two particularly interesting fields are system biology and ecological modeling.  In the former field, dynamic hybrid fault models may find important applications in the study of biological networks \(such as gene, molecular, and cell networks 2008g conjecture that explains the redundancy in the universal genetic code with Byzantine general algorithm. In addition they conducted a comparative analysis of bio-robustness with engineering fault tolerance, for example, the strong similarity between network survivability and ecological stability \(Ma &amp; Krings 2008g survivability analysis can be applied for the study of survivals or extinctions of biological species under global climate changes \(Ma 2008b  In this paper, I have to ignore much of the details related to the implementation issues to present the overall architecture and major approaches clearly and concisely. To deal with the potential devils in the implementation details, a well funded research and development team is necessary to take advantages of the ideas presented here. On the positive side I do see the great potential to build an enterprise PHM software product if there is sufficient resource to complete the implementation. Given the enormous complexity associated with the PHM practice in modern engineering fields, it is nearly impossible to realize or even demonstrate the benefits of the architecture without the software implementation. The critical importance of PHM to mission critical engineering fields such as aerospace engineering, in turn, dictates the great value of such kind software product  6.3. Beyond PHM  Finally, I would like to raise two questions that may be interested in by researchers and engineers beyond PHM community. The first question is: what can PHM offer to other engineering disciplines? The second question is: what kinds of engineering fields benefit most from PHM? Here, I use the term PHM with the definition proposed by IEEE which is quoted in the introduction section of the paper  As to the first question, I suggest software engineering and survivability analysis are two fields where PHM can play significant roles. With software engineering, I refer to applying PHM principles and approaches for dealing with software reliability, quality assurance, and even software process management, rather than building PHM software mentioned in the previous subsection. For survivability analysis, borrowing the procedures and practices of PHM should be particularly helpful for expanding its role beyond its originating domain \(network systems that control critical national infrastructures is a strong advocate for the expansion of survivability analysis to PHM. Therefore, the interaction between PHM and survivability analysis should be bidirectional. Indeed, I see the close relationships between PHM, software engineering, and survivability as well-justified because they all share some critical issues including reliability survivability, security, and dependability  


 The answer to the second question is much more elusive and I cannot present a full answer without comparative analysis of several engineering fields where PHM has been actively practiced. Of course, it is obvious that fields which demand mission critical reliability and dependability also demand better PHM solutions. One additional observation I would like to make is that PHM seems to play more crucial roles for engineering practices that depend on the systematic records of 'historical' data, such as reliability data in airplane engine manufacturing, rather than on the information from ad hoc events.  This may explain the critical importance of PHM in aerospace engineering particularly in commercial airplane design and manufacturing.  For example, comparing the tasks to design and build a space shuttle vs. to design and manufacture commercial jumbo jets, PHM should be more critical in the latter task  17    Figure 2. States of a monitoring sensor node and its failure modes \(after Ma &amp; Krings 2008e     Figure 3. Core Modules and their Relationships of the Life System Inspired PHM Architecture    REFERENCES  Adamides, E. D., Y. A. Stamboulis, A. G. Varelis. 2004 Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems Model-Based Assessment of Military Aircraft Engine Maintenance Systems. Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 55, No. 9:957-967  Anderson, R. 2001. Security Engineering. Wiley  Anderson, R. 2008. Security Engineering. 2nd ed. Wiley  Bird, J. W., Hess, A. 2007.   Propulsion System Prognostics R&amp;D Through the Technical Cooperation Program Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, 3-10 March 2007, 8pp  Bock, J. R., Brotherton, T., W., Gass, D. 2005. Ontogenetic reasoning system for autonomic logistics. Aerospace Conference, 2005 IEEE 5-12 March 2005.Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2005.1559677  Brotherton, T., P. Grabill, D. Wroblewski, R. Friend, B Sotomayer, and J. Berry. 2002. A Testbed for Data Fusion for Engine Diagnostics and Prognostics. Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE Aerospace Conference  Brotherton, T.; Grabill, P.; Friend, R.; Sotomayer, B.; Berry J. 2003. A testbed for data fusion for helicopter diagnostics and prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2003. Proceedings 2003 IEEE  Brown, E. R., N. N. McCollom, E-E. Moore, A. Hess. 2007 Prognostics and Health Management A Data-Driven Approach to Supporting the F-35 Lightning II. 2007 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Byington, C.S.; Watson, M.J.; Bharadwaj, S.P. 2008 Automated Health Management for Gas Turbine Engine Accessory System Components. Aerospace Conference 2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 


2008 IEEE, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526610 Environment Covariates &amp; Spatial Frailty Applications: AL; Life Cycle Mgmt; Real-Time Alerts CBM+, RCM, TLCSM; Secret Sharing and Shared Control 18 Chen, Y. Q., S. Cheng. 2005. Semi-parametric regression analysis of mean residual life with censored survival data Biometrika \(2005  29  Commenges, D. 1999. Multi-state models in Epidemiology Lifetime Data Analysis. 5:315-327  Cook, J. 2004. Contrasting Approaches to the Validation of Helicopter HUMS  A Military User  s Perspective Aerospace Conference, 2004 IEEE  Cook, J. 2007. Reducing Military Helicopter Maintenance Through Prognostics. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352830  Cox, D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables.  J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B. 34:184-220  Crowder, M. J.  2001. Classical Competing Risks. Chapman amp; Hall. 200pp  David, H. A. &amp; M. L. Moeschberger. 1978. The theory of competing risks. Macmillan Publishing, 103pp  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M. Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013  Hanski, I. 1999. Metapopulation Ecology. Oxford University Press  Hallam, T. G. and S. A. Levin. 1986. Mathematical Ecology. Biomathematics. Volume 17. Springer. 457pp  Hess, A., Fila, L. 2002.  The Joint Strike Fighter \(JSF concept: Potential impact on aging aircraft problems Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. IEEE. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2002.1036144  Hess, A., Calvello, G., T. Dabney. 2004. PHM a Key Enabler for the JSF Autonomic Logistics Support Concept. Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2004. IEEE  Hofbauer, J. and K. Sigmund. 1998. Evolutionary Games and Population Dynamics. Cambridge University Press 323pp  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Huzurbazar, A. V. 2006. Flow-graph model for multi-state time-to-event data. Wiley InterScience  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis. Springer. 481pp  Kacprzynski, G. J., Roemer, M. J., Hess, A. J. 2002. Health management system design: Development, simulation and cost/benefit optimization. IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings, 2002. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2002.1036148  Kalbfleisch, J. D., and R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data. Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed  Kalgren, P. W., Byington, C. S.   Roemer, M. J.  2006 Defining PHM, A Lexical Evolution of Maintenance and Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference 


Logistics. Systems Readiness Technology Conference IEEE. DOI: 10.1109/AUTEST.2006.283685  Keller, K.; Baldwin, A.; Ofsthun, S.; Swearingen, K.; Vian J.; Wilmering, T.; Williams, Z. 2007. Health Management Engineering Environment and Open Integration Platform Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE, Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/AERO.2007.352919  Keller, K.; Sheahan, J.; Roach, J.; Casey, L.; Davis, G Flynn, F.; Perkinson, J.; Prestero, M. 2008. Power Conversion Prognostic Controller Implementation for Aeronautical Motor Drives. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526630  Klein, J. P. and M. L. Moeschberger. 2003. Survival analysis techniques for censored and truncated data Springer  Kingsland, S. E. 1995. Modeling Nature: Episodes in the History of Population Ecology. 2nd ed., University of Chicago Press, 315pp  Kot, M. 2001. Elements of Mathematical Ecology Cambridge University Press. 453pp  Krings, A. W. and Z. S. Ma. 2006. Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks Military Communications Conference, 23-25 October, 7 pages, 2006  Lamport, L., R. Shostak and M. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine Generals Problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems, 4\(3  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data. John Wiley &amp; Sons. 2nd ed  Line, J. K., Iyer, A. 2007. Electronic Prognostics Through Advanced Modeling Techniques. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352906  Lisnianski, A., Levitin, G. 2003. Multi-State System Reliability: Assessment, Optimization and Applications World Scientific  Liu, Y., and K. S. Trivedi. 2006. Survivability Quantification: The Analytical Modeling Approach, Int. J of Performability Engineering, Vol. 2, No 1, pp. 29-44  19 Luchinsky, D.G.; Osipov, V.V.; Smelyanskiy, V.N Timucin, D.A.; Uckun, S. 2008. Model Based IVHM System for the Solid Rocket Booster. Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE.DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526644  Lynch, N. 1997. Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann Press  Ma, Z. S. 1997. Demography and survival analysis of Russian wheat aphid. Ph.D. dissertation, Univ. of Idaho 306pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008a. New Approaches to Reliability and Survivability with Survival Analysis, Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models, and Evolutionary  Game Theory. Ph.D. dissertation Univ. of Idaho. 177pp  Ma, Z. S. 2008b. Survivability Analysis of Biological Species under Global Climate Changes: A New Distributed and Agent-based Simulation Architecture with Survival Analysis and Evolutionary Game Theory. The Sixth 


International Conference on Ecological Informatics. Dec 25, 2008. Cancun, Mexico  Ma, Z. S. and E. J. Bechinski. 2008. A Survival-Analysis based  Simulation Model for Russian Wheat Aphid Population Dynamics. Ecological Modeling, 216\(2 332  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a.  Survival Analysis Approach to Reliability Analysis and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT, 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008b. Competing Risks Analysis of Reliability, Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management \(PHM  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008.  Big Sky, MT. 20pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I Dependence Modeling", Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, 2008, Big Sky, MT. 21pp  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings., R. E. Hiromoto. 2008d Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability IEEE International Conference of Biomedical Engineering and Informatics, BMEI 2008.  6 Pages  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008e. Dynamic Hybrid Fault Models and their Applications to Wireless Sensor Networks WSNs Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and Mobile Systems. \(ACM MSWiM 2008 Vancouver, Canada  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008f. Dynamic Populations in Genetic Algorithms. SIGAPP, the 23rd Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Ceara, Brazil, March 16-20, 2008. 5 Pages  Ma, Z. S. &amp; A. W. Krings. 2008g. Bio-Robustness and Fault Tolerance: A New Perspective on Reliable, Survivable and Evolvable Network Systems, Proc. IEEE  AIAA AeroSpace Conference, March 1-8, Big Sky, MT, 2008. 20 Pages  Ma, Z. S.  and A. W. Krings. 2009. Insect Sensory Systems Inspired Computing and Communications.  Ad Hoc Networks 7\(4  MacConnell, J.H. 2008. Structural Health Management and Structural Design: An Unbridgeable Gap? 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference, DOI:10.1109/AERO.2008.4526613  MacConnell, J.H. 2007. ISHM &amp; Design: A review of the benefits of the ideal ISHM system. Aerospace Conference 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352834  Marshall A. W., I. Olkin. 1967. A Multivariate Exponential Distribution. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 62\(317 Mar., 1967  Martinussen, T. and T. H. Scheike. 2006. Dynamic Regression Models for Survival Data. Springer. 466pp  Mazzuchi, T. A., R. Soyer., and R. V. Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Millar, R.C., Mazzuchi, T.A. &amp; Sarkani, S., 2007. A Survey of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of 


of Advanced Methods for Analysis and Modeling of Propulsion System", GT2007-27218, ASME Turbo Expo 2007, May 14-17, Montreal, Canada  Millar, Richard C., "Non-parametric Analysis of a Complex Propulsion System Data Base", Ph.D. Dissertation, George Washington University, June 2007  Millar, R. C. 2007. A Systems Engineering Approach to PHM for Military Aircraft Propulsion Systems. Aerospace Conference, 2007 IEEE. DOI:10.1109/AERO.2007.352840  Millar, R. C. 2008.  The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Aerospace Conference, 2008 IEEE, 1-8 March 2008. Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/AERO.2008.4526633  Nowak, M. 2006. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Harvard University Press. 363pp  Oakes, D. &amp; Dasu, T. 1990. A note on residual life Biometrika 77, 409  10  Pintilie, M. 2006. Competing Risks: A Practical Perspective.  Wiley. 224pp  20 Smith, M. J., C. S. Byington. 2006. Layered Classification for Improved Diagnostic Isolation in Drivetrain Components. 2006 IEEE AeroSpace Conference  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000. Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model. Springer  Vincent, T. L. and J. L. Brown. 2005. Evolutionary Game Theory, Natural Selection and Darwinian Dynamics Cambridge University Press. 382pp  Wang. J., T. Yu, W. Wang. 2008. Research on Prognostic Health Management \(PHM on Flight Data. 2008 Int. Conf. on Condition Monitoring and Diagnosis, Beijing, China, April 21-24, 2008. 5pp  Zhang, S., R. Kang, X. He, and M. G. Pecht. 2008. China  s Efforts in Prognostics and Health Management. IEEE Trans. on Components and Packaging Technologies 31\(2             BIOGRAPHY  Zhanshan \(Sam scientist and earned the terminal degrees in both fields in 1997 and 2008, respectively. He has published more than 60 peer-refereed journal and conference papers, among which approximately 40 are journal papers and more than a third are in computer science.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in semiconductor and software industry. His current research interests include: reliability, dependability and fault tolerance of distributed and software systems behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and 


behavioral and cognitive ecology inspired pervasive and resilient computing; evolutionary &amp; rendezvous search games; evolutionary computation &amp; machine learning bioinformatics &amp; ecoinformatics                 pre></body></html 


