Prevention of SQL Injection Attack Using Query Transformation and Hashing Debabrata Kar Department of Computer Science and Engineering Silicon Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar, India debabrata.kar@silicon.ac.in Suvasini Panigrahi School of Computer Engineering KIIT University Bhubaneswar, India spanigrahifcs@kiit.ac.in   Abstract  In this Internet age, web applications have become an integral part of our lives, but security and privacy of our sensitive data has become a big concern. Over last several years SQL Injection has been the most prevalent form of attack on web databases. Much research has been done in this area, but most of the approaches in the literature have high computational overhead or difficult to deploy in practical scenarios. In this paper we have proposed a lightweight approach to prevent SQL Injection attacks by a novel query transformation scheme and hashing. We implemented it on a prototype e-commerce application and the results of our experiments show that it can successfully and efficiently block a variety of SQL Injection attempts. This approach can also be easily implemented on any language or database platform with little modification Keywords  SQL Injection, SQLIA Prevention, Query Transformation, Query Structure, Hashing I   I NTRODUCTION  In today s Internet driven world, we have become dependent on web applications like email, e-commerce, social networking, online banking, blogs, forums, online gaming and so on. The web applications on the Internet are usually dynamic and driven by one or more databases in the backend While the Internet and web applications have made our lives much simpler, security & privacy of the sensitive data in the backend databases has become a big concern. Web applications, being accessible to everyone, are exposed to various forms of security threats like Denial of Service \(DoS Structured Query Language \(SQL\jection, Cross-site Scripting \(XSS\, Remote File Inclusion attacks etc. Out of various threats, SQL injection has been the most prevalent form of attack on websites. In fact it has been on the top among the top-10 security threats listed by OWASP [1 s i n c e l ast  several years. According to TrustWave 2012 Global Security Report [2 on g all w e b base d a tta cks, SQL in j e cti on  remained the number one attack method for the fourth year in a row. The problem has become more serious after 2008 because attackers have started using sophisticated botnets  o  automatically discover vulnerable websites from search engines and launch mass SQL injection attacks on them Defensive coding practices by sanitizing and filtering user input data provides some degree of protection from SQL injection attacks, but many programmers are not aware of this serious security threat. Some organizations use Network Intrusion Detection System \(NIDS\or generic Database Intrusion Detection System \(DIDS\block attack attempts by matching with a set of previously known attack signature patterns. However, signature-based detection can be bypassed 4  6  by expe rienc e d att ac k e rs w ith a little ef f o rt M u ch research has been done in this area but many of the methods proposed in the literature are either computationally heavy or difficult to deploy in production environments In this paper, we have proposed a lightweight approach to prevent SQL Injection attacks by using a novel query transformation scheme followed by hashing. We ascertain that this method is effective to prevent a variety of SQL injection attempts. For this work we have considered PHP and MySQL however our approach can be easily ported to other platforms with minimal modifications. Our experimental results show that this approach can protect web applications without noticeable difference in their performance The rest of the paper is organized in the following manner Section 2 discusses the background and explains the basics of SQL injection attacks. Section 3 outlines the related research in this area. In Section 4 we introduce the key idea behind the proposed query transformation scheme. We detail our approach in Section 5 and show the experimental evaluation in Section 6 Finally we note the limitations in Section 7 and conclude the paper with direction for future work II  B ACKGROUND  over SQL injection was originally published in a black-hat community website called Phrack Magazine in Dece mber  1998 by rain.forest.puppy \(rfp\Under the section titled  ODBC and MS SQL Server 6.5   rfp described the methods of injecting SQL keywords into web pages through query string parameters and form field values thereby being able to extract information from the backend database. It was later named as SQL Injection by Chip Andrews in October 2000 SQL injection problem has been around for a decade since its discovery. There have been many instances of SQL injection attacks on numerous websites in the history causing huge loss to the organizations due to leakage of sensitive information. It is estimated that over 180,000 web pages are compromised daily due to SQL injection attacks alone 1317 978-1-4673-4529-3/12/$31.00 c  2012 IEEE 


A  SQL Injection Attack An SQL Injection Attack \(SQLIA\a subset of the unverified/unsanitized input vulnerability and occurs when an attacker attempts to change the logic, semantics or syntax, and behavior of a dynamically generated SQL statement by inserting additional SQL keywords and/or operators into the statement through URL query string or HTML form values usually with a malicious intent. SQL injection vulnerability on a web page exists if user inputs or query string parameters are used to construct dynamic SQL queries without properly validating them. According to OWASP, this is the most common flaw found in web applications To explain the basic mechanism of SQL injection, we take the classic example of a login form, commonly seen on many websites. A typical PHP code snippet that validates login credentials against the values stored in databases is as below php sql = "SELECT * FROM tbl_users WHERE username _POST['user_name  AN D p a s s w ord   _POST['user_pass    result = mysql_query\($query, $connection   If the user enters  john  as the user name and  mypass  as the password, the resulting SQL query that will be executed against the database is SELECT * FROM tbl_users WHERE username = 'john AND password = 'mypass  However, if an attacker enters  abcd' OR 1 = 1  as the user name and  xyz  as the password, then the resulting query after substituting these values would be SELECT * FROM tbl_users WHERE username abcd' OR 1 = 1 -- ' AND password = 'xyz  It may be noted that the single quote after  abcd  in the input serves as the string terminator for the username value while the added clause  OR 1 = 1  always evaluates to TRUE The double-dash at the end of the inputted username, which is the comment character in Transact-SQL, effectively comments out the rest of the query. When executed, the query returns all records from the tbl_users table with the record pointer at the first row of the result set. The attacker therefore successfully logs in as the first user in the table. The fundamental fact with SQL injection is the ability of an attacker to change the syntax and semantics of a dynamically generated query by carefully inserting special characters and SQL keywords into the input fields which drastically alters the behavior of the query originally intended by the programmer, resulting in an unauthorized access into the protected area of the website B  Types of SQL Injection Depending on the way and intent of injecting special characters and SQL keywords into form input fields or URL parameter values, SQL injection has been classified by Halfond et al. [8  in t o th e f o ll ow in g  cat ego ries  1  Tautologies 2  Illegal or logically incorrect queries 3  UNION based queries 4  Piggy-backed queries 5  Stored procedure attacks 6  Inference based attacks 7  Alternate encodings   The above SQL injection methods mostly rely on the information revealed through error messages displayed on the vulnerable web page which the attacker uses to make an inference and craft the next injection attempt. Where error messages have been suppressed, the attacker can still use Blind or Time-based attack methods. In blind method, the attacker resorts to blind guessing of information character by character using the output in form of true/false depending on the point at which the behavior of the web page changes. In time-based attacks, the attacker introduces a delay by injecting an additional SLEEP n ll into the query and then observing if the web page was actually delayed by n seconds. If so, then the attacker can make the inference from the amount of delay injected versus the time-gap after which the web page loads III  R ELATED W ORK  Being a decade old problem that is persisting till date, there has been extensive work on detection and prevention of SQLIA by a number of researchers. Based on the approaches used by the authors in the literature, we discuss the related work under the following categories A  Defensive Coding Practices Defensive coding practices have been always advised as a first-hand protection against SQL injection attacks. Livshits et al. [9 r o pos ed  a W e b A p p lic ati on Con stru cti on Fram ew ork to  protect against code injection attacks. Enforcing security by strong variable typing system was proposed by Robertson et al 10  Use of C tem pla tes h a s be en p r o pos ed by Gil et a l   1 1   to produce safe SQL queries from applications B  Code Analysis Livshits et al. [12 u s ed sta ti c code analy sis to de te rm in e potential vulnerabilities in Java Applications. Jovanovic et al  de vi sed  Pixy a static analysis tool for PHP 4 applications Static analysis to model strings using a context-free grammar was used by Wassermann et al. [1 o  de te ct v u l n e ra bl e  hotspots. Huang et al. [1  p r o p o se d W e bSSA RI u s in g sta tic  analysis to determine vulnerable parts of code and use that information to create runtime guards for protection. Halfond et al. [16 p r esen te d A M NES IA th at u s ed st ati c analy sis to bu i l d  query models and monitoring the runtime  queries according to the model. CANDID, presented by Bandhakavi et al. [1 w a s  based on augmenting the source code by additional queries with candidate variables and then matching the runtime queries with structure of the candidate queries. Code analysis however is error-prone and requires access to the source code C  SQL Query Randomization Boyd et al. [18 p r es ente d SQL Rand w h ich ap p e nds a  random key to every SQL keyword in the queries used in the 1318 2013 3 rd IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 


application code. SQLRand however used statically generated keys which can be determined by brute-force. Later, a dynamic key management scheme was proposed by Mokhov et al. [19   D  Penetration Testing Since SQL injection vulnerability exists primarily due to weakness in input validation, lot of work has been done on penetration testing to find out vulnerabilities so that they can be fixed. Benedikt et al. [20 dev elop ed Ve ri W e b t o autom atic a lly  discover and test dynamic websites. Kals et al. [21  p r esen t e d  SecuBat web vulnerability scanner to find SQL injection and XSS vulnerabilities. Wasserman et al. [22 p r esen te d a technique to automatically generate test inputs for testing of dynamic PHP applications with specific focus to generate test oracles for SQL injection E  Taint-based Approaches Variable tainting based approaches have been used to track information flow during execution of a program. Positive tainting with syntax aware evaluation was proposed by Halfond et al. [23  to c o u n t e r S Q L in jecti on  att ack s Ngu y e n T u on g et  al. [2 c laim ed th at w e b a p p lic ati on s can be  su f f icient ly  hardened by using precise tainting. PHP Aspis, developed by Papagiannis et al. [2 u s e d p a rt ial t aint check in g a p p r oa ch t o  protect PHP applications from injection attacks F  SQL Syntax Tree and Graph Based Methods Buehrer et al. [26 u s e d a sim ple J a va bas ed  pa rse t re e  validation approach to prevent injection attacks. Their approach however requires rewriting the portion of code containing SQL queries to invoke the parse-tree validator Zhang et al. [27  pr o pos e d u s in g v a ria b le t r a c kin g al on g w ith  tree validation to detect injection vulnerabilities. Logical trees for the WHERE clause part of queries with semantic analysis was used in [28 t o  p r event in jecti on  att ack s   G  HTTP Packet Inspection Since all SQL injection attacks are through the web interface over HTTP, researchers have tried to detect injection attempts by finding anomalies in the HTTP traffic. Kiani et al 29  pr o p o se d th a t H TTP re qu est l e ng th bas ed m odels of  a w e b application can be effectively used to detect SQL injection attempts. Kirchner et al. [30 cre ate d a s elflea rn in g anom aly detection framework for HTTP traffic without signatures of previously known attacks. Similarly, HMMPayl [31 in s p e cte d  HTTP traffic to detect anomalies and attack attempts However, matching multiple patterns on-the-fly on large HTTP payloads adds lot of overhead processing on the server H  Fingerprinting and Learning based Methods Lee et al. [32  pr o pos e d D I D A FIT a f r a m e w o rk to cr ea te  fingerprints of legitimate transactions using compact regular expressions which can be matched at runtime to detect anomalies. A learning based method using a mixture of string models was proposed in [33  Ch o i  e t al  3 4  pr o p o se d u s e of  N-Gram analysis for feature selection and further classification with Support Vector Machines \(SVM\for detecting attack attempts. Learning normal query behaviors has been proposed by Kadirvelu et al. [3 u s in g Gene Ex p r essi o n  P r og r a mm i n g   All learning based methods involve training a model using data collected during normal use and then use the trained model to detect any abnormal behavior at run-time IV  P RELIMINARIES  The idea of collecting legitimate queries during normal use in a secured environment and then matching runtime queries with that repository is not very new, however there are two major practical challenges to overcome 1  Reducing the size of the legitimate query repository 2  Performing fast and efficient matching at runtime  A web application can issue thousands of SQL queries to the database server for execution. A small scale e-commerce website, written with PHP and MySQL database at the backend, could contain about 80-100 PHP pages. If each page issues 20-30 SQL queries during its execution, about 16003000 different SQL queries will be generated by the entire website. Assuming that 100 concurrent users browse the website every minute, a SQLIA detector will require to find a match for about 3-5 queries every millisecond searching through a pool of 1600-3000 normal queries. This can impose a huge processing overhead on the database server causing degradation of performance. For a large website with larger number of concurrent users, this method becomes infeasible even with a high-capacity dedicated server. Therefore the size of the legitimate query repository must be minimized. In addition, since the repository can still contain a large number of records, a fast and efficient searching method is required for matching of queries generated during runtime A common approach that has been used in the literature in this regard is to remove the query attribute values \(the variable part\d store only the skeleton \(the constant part\ of the queries. For example, consider the following two SQL queries 1  SELECT * FROM products WHERE category_id = 105 AND brand_id = 2 2  SELECT * FROM products WHERE category_id = 5 AND brand_id = 102  By removing the attribute values for category_id and brand_id columns and replacing them with a    both queries reduce to the same skeletal form as SELECT * FROM products WHERE category_id AND brand_id Thus by storing only the skeleton of the queries, the search space can be reduced by a good extent. This is same as storing the parametrized or prepared statement form of each query generated during normal use. At runtime, the attribute values can be removed and the skeleton query can be matched with the legitimate query repository. However, consider the following two queries in skeletal form 1  SELECT * FROM products WHERE category_id = ? AND brand_id 2013 3 rd IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 1319 


2  SELECT * FROM products WHERE supplier_id = ? AND brand_id  These two skeleton queries have to be stored separately because one of them uses the brand_id attribute while the other uses the supplier_id attribute in the WHERE clause. Therefore removing the query attribute values alone is not sufficient to minimize the size of the legitimate query repository V  P ROPOSED A PPROACH  We propose a novel query transformation scheme that transforms a query into its structural form instead of the parametrized form We assume that any query generated by the website is equally vulnerable to some form of injection attack An attacker will try various means to alter the structure and hence the behavior of dynamically generated queries by inserting SQL keywords, special characters and alpha-numeric values. Therefore, we defend that, except for the SQL keywords and special characters, identifier tokens in the query such as table and column names along with the parameter values are irrelevant as far as the structural form of the query is concerned. If we hide the table and column names from the two parametrized queries cited above, we get 1  SELECT * FROM <table> WHERE column> = ? AND <column 2  SELECT * FROM <table> WHERE column> = ? AND <column It may be observed that both the queries now reduce to exactly the same structural form Therefore, in this example we need to store only one structural form instead of two skeleton queries in the repository. To further illustrate the concept, let us consider another query on a different table SELECT * FROM suppliers WHERE city_id AND zip_code Using the same principle of omitting table name and column names, this query will also reduce to the same structural form of the previous two queries as shown below SELECT * FROM <table> WHERE <column> = ? AND column Thus by ignoring the identifier tokens, many different queries will transform into the same structural form. If any of these three example queries becomes a victim of some form of SQL injection, for example a tautological attack, the structural form of the injected query will be SELECT * FROM <table> WHERE <column> = ? AND column> = ? OR As the structural form of the injected query is substantially different from that of the legitimate queries it can be easily determined as an SQL injection attempt. The major advantage with our approach is that a number of different queries can potentially reduce to the same structural form, minimizing the size of the search space for run-time matching. Based on this key idea, we now present our query transformation scheme A  The Query Transformation Scheme As stated earlier, our goal is to convert the queries into their structural form instead of parametrized form To achieve that we formulate a transformation scheme as given in Table I. The scheme has been designed to handle largely possible varieties of queries, including any query that refers objects from the system databases and/or tables All of these transformations can be easily done by substring replacement with appropriate regular expressions using the preg_replace function available in PHP TABLE I  T HE Q UERY T RANSFORMATION S CHEME  Step Token Transformation 1 2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14 15 16 SQL Keywords, Functions System Database  System Table  Column of System Table  User Database  User Table  Column of User Table  Single Quoted String  Double Quoted String  Integer Values  Decimal Values  Hexadecimal Values  Table Aliases  Column Aliases  Newline/Tab/Space\(s  Any other symbol To Uppercase SYSDB SYSTBL SYSCOL USRDB USRTBL USRCOL STR STR INT DEC HEX ALS ACOL Single Space  No Transformation  Consider the following example query \(intentionally written in bad case to illustrate the effect of transformation SeLECt * FroM customers WhERe first_name LiKe '%John%' AnD \(city_id = 23 oR zip_code 45345 Applying the query transformation as per our scheme as described above, the query is transformed into SELECT * FROM USRTBL WHERE USRCOL LIKE STR%' AND \(USRCOL = &INT OR USRCOL INT It may be noted that the structural form of the query still preserves the data types expected for the attribute values along with how they are delimited in the original query B  Hashing of the Transformed Queries In order to store the transformed queries and perform efficient searching during run-time, we propose to apply a suitable hashing function to generate unique hash keys for each transformed query by using a suitable hash function Generating unique hash key for each transformed query offers two advantages i only the hash keys can be stored instead of the transformed queries thereby saving lot of storage space in the legitimate query repository, and ii a primary index can be created on the hash keys, as they are unique, to facilitate fast and efficient searching at run-time. It is however required that the hash function is fast because it will be used during run-time. Also it should have a very low collision rate 1320 2013 3 rd IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 


 Fig.1 The BookStore E-Commerce Application Prototype PHP \(version 5 and above\ has built-in support for over 40 hash algorithms through its hash function which generates hash keys ranging from 8 to 128 characters. Considering that a smaller key is prone to collision, while a larger key requires more storage space, a key size of 32 characters is ideal for our purpose. To select a suitable hash algorithm, we performed a benchmark test by applying the algorithms which generate keys of 32 characters on arbitrary strings of length 500 to 2000 characters. Each algorithm was applied 1000 times on each string and the average time taken to compute the hash key was measured in milliseconds. A standard desktop computer with Intel  Core   i3 2.10GHz processor and 2GB RAM was used for the benchmarking. The results of the bench marking test of various hash functions are given in Table II TABLE II  B ENCHMARK R ESULT OF H ASH A LGORITHMS  Hash Algorithm String Length 500 1000 1500 2000 MD2 MD4  MD5  RIP EMED128 TIGER128,3  TIGER128,4  HAVAL128,3  HAVAL128,4  HAVAL128,5 0.39846 0.00402 0.00557 0.01169 0.01134 0.01580 0.01451 0.02293 0.02605 0.77839 0.00715 0.00979 0.02576 0.01939 0.02936 0.02674 0.03658 0.06626 1.16861 0.01336 0.01516 0.02190 0.03040 0.04007 0.04536 0.07565 0.08524 1.54123 0.01538 0.01915 0.03103 0.03912 0.05144 0.05120 0.07933 0.10396  The results reveal that the MD4 algorithm has the best performance. However the security of MD4 algorithm has been severely compromised in the past. Though MD5 algorithm turns out to be 13% to 39% slower than MD4, it has a high collision resistance of 2 20.96 and uniform distribution of generated hash keys. Therefore, we decide that MD5 hashing is best suitable for generating hash keys of transformed queries Another advantage is that there is also a direct md5 function available in PHP since version 4 VI  E XPERIMENTAL E VALUATION  To evaluate our approach, we developed a Book Store ecommerce web application prototype using PHP 5.4.5 and MySQL 5.5.25a \(Fig. 1\ with standard features such as browsing books by genre or author, book details, searching author details, book reviews, advertisements, shopping cart checkout system, contact form and back-end administration interface etc. as seen on real online book stores. The code of the web application was intentionally written with weak or no input validation to ensure that every web page is vulnerable to multiple types of SQL injection attacks With MySQL general query logging switched on, we browsed all parts of the web application in a secured intranet environment simultaneously from 5 client computers. Total 33,980 queries were logged in the MySQL general query log out of which 1,354 unique queries were extracted. All of these are legitimate queries. These queries were then converted to structural form using our query transformation scheme which produced only 93 unique query structures. These structural forms of queries were then hashed with MD5 algorithm and the hash keys generated were stored in a legal_queries table in the application  s MySQL database. We observed that the number of unique skeleton queries with only parameter value removal came out as 135. Therefore it is proved that our query transformation scheme reduced the legitimate query repository by an appreciable 31.11% in this experiment. For a larger web application, the reduction will definitely be more We th en modified the web application s database access component to process every query generated at run-time through the same transformation scheme, generate its MD5 hash key and look up the same in the legal query repository. If the hash key is found in the legal_queries table, then the query is executed; otherwise an E_USER_ERROR is triggered using PHP s trigger_error function with error message  Possible SQL Injection Attempt   The web application was installed on a desktop computer having configuration mentioned above under Microsoft IIS 7.0 The overhead due to this additional processing was measured under various load conditions with 50 to 300 concurrent requests per second. On an average we noticed a delay of 6.17 to 17.58 milliseconds per page request, which is negligible in actual production environment The web application was then subjected to SQL injection attacks using a mixture of automated & manual scanning hacking tools such as HP Scrawler \(free version\, NetSparker community edition\, WebCruiser Pro, SQL Power Injector sqlmap, The Mole, IronWasp, and jSQL Injector. Since every query generated by the application is transformed, hashed and then the hash key is searched in the legitimate query repository before execution, none of the SQL injection attempts were successful. Therefore we conclude that this approach provides 100% protection against SQL injection attacks VII  L IMITATION  Though the proposed query transformation scheme and hashing provides full protection from most varieties of SQL injection, but it suffers from one limitation. This approach cannot prevent second order SQL injection attempts since the parameter values \(especially the string values\e removed during the transformation process. While prevention of SQL injection attacks is our primary goal in this work, it is worthwhile to mention that this approach can neither be applied to prevent XSS attacks, because XSS attacks also 2013 3 rd IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 1321 


happen by embedding executable code \(usually in JavaScript inside string parameters entered through web forms VIII  C ONCLUSION  In this paper we have presented a lightweight method to prevent SQL injection attacks by a novel query transformation scheme to convert SQL queries into their structural form and then applying MD5 hashing to generate unique hash keys for each legal query collected during normal use. At run-time, hash key for every dynamic query is generated in the same manner and matched against the previously stored hash keys to prevent SQL injection attempts. This approach minimizes the size of the legitimate query repository and facilitates fast and efficient searching at run-time using a primary index. Our experimental results show that this approach can effectively prevent all types of SQL injection attempts except second order SQL injection This approach does not require major changes to application code and has negligible effect on performance even at higher load conditions due to its low processing overhead. It can also be easily applied to any other language & database platform without major changes. Further research on the query transformation scheme is needed to make it suitable for prevention of second order SQL injection attempts R EFERENCES  1  OWASP, çTop 10 Security Threats 2010.é https://www.owasp.org  index.php/Top_10_2010-Main, 2010 2  TrustWave, çExecutive Summary: Trustwave 2012 Global Security Report.é https://www.trustwave.com/global security-report, 2012 3  D. Maciejak and G. Lovet, çBotn et-Powered Sql Injection Attacks: A Deeper Look Within,é in Virus Bulletin Conference, pp. 286 288, 2009 4  O. Maor and A. Shulman, çSQL Injection Signatures Evasion White Paper, Imperva, Inc., April 2004 5  S. Quartini and M. Rondini, çBlind Sql Injection w ith Regular Expressions Attack.é http://www.ihteam.net/papers/blind sqliregexpattack.pdf, December 2011 6  J. Dahse, çExploiting hard filtered SQL Injections.é http://websec  wordpress.com/2010/03/19/exploiting-hard-filtered-sql-injections March 2010 7  RFP NT Web Technology Vulnerabilities.é http://phrack.org  issues.html?issue=54&id=8#article, December 1998 8  W. Halfond, J. Viegas, and A. Orso, çA Classification of SQL injection Attacks and Countermeasures,é in International Symposium on Secure Software Engineering \(ISSSE\ pp. 12  23, 2006 9  B. Livshits and ⁄. Erlingsson, çUsing Web Application Construction Frameworks to Protect Against Code Injection Attacks,é in Proceedings of the 2007 Workshop on Programming Languages and Analysis for Security, pp. 95  104, ACM, 2007   W. Robertson and G. Vigna, çStatic Enforcement of Web Application Integrity through Strong Typing,é in Proceedings of the 18th conferenceon USENIX security symposium, pp. 283  298, USENIX Association, 2009   J. Gil and K. Lenz, çSimple and Safe SQL Queries with C Templates,é in Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Generative Programming and Component Engineering, pp. 13  24 ACM, 2007   V. Livshits and M. Lam, çFinding Security Vulnerabilities in Java Applications with Static Analy sis,é in Proceedings of the 14th conference on USENIX Security Symposium, vol. 4, pp. 18  18 USENIX Association, 2005   N. Jovanovic, C. Kruegel, and E. Kirda, çPixy: A Static Analysis Tool for Detecting Web Application Vulnerabilities,é in Security and Pri vacy 2006 IEEE Symposium on, pp. 257  263, IEEE, May 2006   G. Wassermann and Z. Su, çSound and Precise Analysis of Web Applications for Injection Vulnerabilities,é ACM SIGPLAN Notices vol. 42, no. 6, pp. 32  41, 2007. ACM   Y. Huang, F. Yu, C. Hang, C. Tsai D. Lee, and S. Kuo, çSecuring Web Application Code by Static Analysis and Runtime Protection,é in Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on World Wide Web pp. 40  52, ACM, 2004   W. Halfond and A. Orso, çAMNESIA: Analysis and Monitoringfor NEutralizing SQLInjection Attacks,é in Proceedings of the 20th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, pp. 174  183, ACM, 2005   S. Bandhakavi, P. Bisht, P. Madhusudan, and V. Venkatakrishnan CANDID: Preventing SQL Injection Attack s Using Dynamic Candidate Evaluations,é in Proceedings of the 14th ACM conference on Computer and communications security, pp. 12  24, ACM, 2007   S. Boyd and A. Keromytis, çSQLrand: Preventing SQL injection attacks,é in Applied Cryptography and Network Secu rity, pp. 292  302 Springer, 2004   S. Mokhov, J. Li, and L. Wang, çSimple Dynamic Key Management in SQL Randomization,é in New Technologies, Mobility and Security NTMS\, 2009 3rd International Conference on, pp. 1  5, IEEE, 2009   M. Benedikt, J. Freire, an d P. Godefroid, çVeriWeb: Automatically Testing Dynamic Web Sites,é in In Proceedings of 11th International World Wide Web Conference \(WWWê2002\, Citeseer, 2002    S. Kals, E. Kirda, C. Kruegel, and N. Jovanovic, çSecubat: A Web Vulnerability Scanner,é in Pr oceedings of the 15th International Conference on World Wide Web, pp. 247  256, ACM, 2006   G. Wassermann, D. Yu, A. Chander, D. Dhurjati, H. Inamura, and Z. Su Dynamic Test Input Generation for Web Applications,é in Proceedings of the 2008 International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis pp. 249  260, ACM, 2008   W. Halfond, A. Orso, and P. Manolios, çUsing Positive Tainting and SyntaxAware Evaluation to Counter SQL Injection Attacks,é in Proceedings of the 14th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering, pp. 175  185, ACM, 2006   A. Nguyen-Tuong, S. Guarnieri, D. Greene, J. Shirley, and D. Evans Automatically Hardening Web Applications Using Precise Tainting Security and Privacy in the Age of Ubiquitous Computing, pp. 295   307, 2005   I. Papagiannis, M. Migliavacca, and P. Pietzuch, çPHP Aspis: Using Partial Taint Tracking to Protect Against Injection Attacks,é in 2nd USENIX Conference on Web Application Development, pp. 13  24 2011   G. Buehrer, B. Weide, and P. Sivi lotti, çUsing Parse Tree Validation to Prevent SQL Injection Attacks,é in Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Software Engineering and Middleware, pp. 106  113 ACM, 2005   Z. Zhang, Q. Zheng, X. Guan, Q. Wang, and T. Wang, çA Method for Detecting Code Security Vulnerability Based on Variables Tracking with ValidatedTree,é Frontiers of Electrical and Electronic Engineering in China, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 162  166, 2008. Springer   G. Lu and K. L¸, çLogical Trees: An Essential Method of Parsing SQL St atement with Semantic Analysis,é 2011. Brunel University, UK    M. Kiani, A. Clark, and G. Mohay, çLength based Modelling of HTTP Traffic for Detecting SQL Injection Attacks,é Proceedings of Recent Advances in Security Technology \(RNSAê2007\ Conference, p. 6 7 2007   M. Kirchner, çA Framework for Detecting Anomalies in HTTP Traffic Using Instance-based Learning and kNearest Neighbor Classification in Security and Communication Networks \(IWSCN\ 2010 2nd International Workshop on, pp. 1  8, IEEE, 2010   D. Ari u and G. Giacinto, çHMMPayl: An Application of HMM to the Analysis of the HTTP Payload,é in Workshop On Applications Of Pattern Analysis, Cumberland Lodge, pp. 81  87, 2010   S. Lee, W. Low, and P. Wong, çLearning Fingerprints for a Database Intrusion Detect ion System,é Computer Security ESORICS 2002, pp 264  279, 2002. Springer 1322 2013 3 rd IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 


  F. Valeur, D. Mutz, and G. Vigna, çA Learning based Approach to the Detection of SQL Attacks,é Detection of Intrusions and Malware, and Vulnerability Assessment, pp. 533  546, 2005. Springer   J. Choi, H. Kim, C. Choi, and P. Kim, çEfficient Malicious Code Detection Using NGram Analysis and SVM,é in Network Based Information Systems \(NBiS\ 2011 14th International Conference on, pp 618  621, IEEE, 2011   S. Kadirvelu and K. Arputharaj Intelligent Agent Based Prevention System for Web Applications from SQL Injection Attacks Using Gene Expression Programming,é European Journal of Scientific Research vol. 49, no. 2, pp. 286  292, 2011  2013 3 rd IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 1323 


TABLE III C OMPARISON OF SCALING OF A VERAGE T IME P ER I TERATION BETWEEN VBMF AND ALSWR  Algorithm Number of Average Time per Nodes Iteration Sec 2 775.3 VBMF 4 600.6 6 475.1 8 401.5 10 348.1 2 123.5 4 123.1 ALSWR 6 124.0 8 123.1 10 119.7 Fig 6 Average Time Per Iteration Vs Number of Nodes cluster One can see that there is an approximate linear decrease in the time per iteration for VBMF A perfect linear scaling is absent perhaps because time taken for data shufîing between nodes is very signiìcant in our computations As the number of nodes increases this becomes more signiìcant and therefore can cause deviation from linear scaling In the case of ALSWR average time per iteration follows almost a at curve instead of a linear trend And the average time per iteration is much lower for ALSWR compared to VBMF Absence of linear scaling seen in ALSWR is quite surprising Since ALSWR is not a probabilistic algorithm it uses only two matrices U and V in the iteration process In VBMF we are considering multiple matrices six in number and due to that the number of jobs are more Most of the jobs except related to cost are independent and use data from previous iteration resulting in the approximate linear scaling In ALSWR for each iteration there are only two matrices to be solved  U and V  The computation of those matrices are dependent on each other Due to this only one job is running at a time In our experiments with ALSWR we found that there are relatively less MapReduce job tasks two-three in each iteration As a result the scaling factor is considerably limited However we need to carry out studies with larger data sets to conìrm this VI C ONCLUSION AND S UMMARY In this work we introduced the parallelization of Variational Bayesian Matrix Factorization method using the MapReduce framework Compared to other matrix factorization methods presence of several different variational parameters makes this problem more difìcult However the inherent factorization of variational parameters helps in parallelizing the update equations using MapReduce We evaluated the performance of MapReduce implementation on CiteULike dataset and found near linear scaling We also compared the scaling performance to that of ALSWR algorithm in Mahout machine learning library Surprisingly we did not nd a linear scaling for ALSWR We need to study both the algorithms on much bigger data sets to really explain the observed difference in the scaling behavior This will be undertaken in future To understand the scalability of Variational Bayesian methods in general we are also planning to study the MapReduce parallelization of other machine learning algorithms using the variational approximation A CKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors would like to thank our collaborators Prof Zoubin Ghahramani and Dr Jose Miguel Hernndez-Lobato from Cambridge University for introducing us to the Variational Bayesian Inference methods and discussing with us VBMF algorithm details The authors would also like to thank Mrs Rajeshwari Ganesan and Mrs Nidhi Tiwari for valuable suggestions on the optimization of Hadoop conìguration Dr Santonu Sarkar for a critical review of the manuscript Dr Shamsuddin Laha for suggesting a scheme of iteration which makes the MapReduce implementation more feasible and Mr Krupa Benhur Gadde for helping us with Hadoop infrastructure Dr Lokendra Shastriês mentoring and technically stimulating discussions were very valuable in this project R EFERENCES  S Zhang W  W ang J F ord and F  Mak edon Learning from Incomplete Ratings Using Non-negative Matrix Factorization in Proceedings of the 6th SIAM Conference on Data Mining  pp 549-563 2006  Y  Zhou D W ilkinson R Schreiber and R P an Lar ge-Scale P arallel Collaborative Filtering for the Netîix Prize in Algorithmic Aspects in Information and Management  vol 5034 pp 337-348 2008  T  Raik o A Ilin and K Juha Principal component analysis for lar ge scale problems with lots of missing values in ECML  2007 pp 691698  J M Hernndez-Lobato Z Ghahramani NetBox a Probabilistic Method for Modeling and Mining Market Basket Data Submitted to ICDM 2013   N Houlsby  J  M  Hernndez-Lobato F  Huszr  and Z Ghahramani Collaborative Gaussian processes for preference learning in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems  vol 26 pp 1-9 2012  R Nallapati W  Cohen and J Laf ferty   P arallelized v ariational EM for latent Dirichlet allocation An experimental evaluation of speed and scalability in ICDMW  2007  K Zhai J Bo yd-Graber  N  Asadi and M Alkhouja Mr  L D A  A Fle xible Large Scale Topic Modeling Package using Variational Inference in MapReduce in Proceedings of the 21st international conference on World Wide Web WWW12  pp 879-888 2012  T  S Jakk ola V ariational Methods for inference and learning in graphical models Ph.D dissertation Dep.Elect.Eng.Comp.Sci MIT 1997  M Jordan Z Ghahramani T  S Jakk ola and L Saul An introduction to variational methods for graphical models in Learning in Graphical Models  M Jordan Ed Cambridge MA MIT Press pp 105-162 1998  C Liu H Y ang J F an L He and Y  W ang Distrib uted Nonne gati v e Matrix Factorization for web-scale dyadic data analysis on mapreduce in Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World wide web pp 681-690 2010  L Xiang Q Y uan S Zhao L Chen X Zhang Q Y ang and J Sun Temporal Recommendation on Graphs via Long and Short term preference Fusion in Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining  pp 723-732 2010  R P an Y  Zhou B Cao N.N Liu R Luk ose M Scholz Q Y ang One-class Collaborative Filtering in Proceedings of the 8th IEEE International Conference on Data Mining  pp 502-511 2008 152 


Effect of Force Feedback on Rubber Hand Illusion 536 Masayuki Hara, Hiroyuki Nabae, Akio Yamamoto, and Toshiro Higuchi A Study of Communication Modalities in a Virtual Collaborative Task 542 Jinling Wang, Amine Chellali, and Caroline G.L. Cao Haptic Cues for Vision Impaired Art Makers: "Seeing" through Touch 547 Lisa Bowers, Mike Bowler, and Farshid Amirabdollahian Haptic Visualization with 2D Lateral Force Using SPIDAR-Mouse in Molecular Docking 553 Kikuo Asai, Norio Takase, and Makoto Sato SMC: Systems Science - SYS-03 Neo-satisficing Control for Cooperative Systems: A Non Heuristic Alternative to Optimization-Based Multiagent Control 559 Wynn C. Stirling Sequential Distributed Model Predictive Control for State-Dependent Nonlinear Systems 565 Salah G. Abokhatwa and Reza Katebi An Augmented Lagrangian Method in Distributed Dynamic Optimization Based on Approximate Neighbor Dynamics 571 S. Hentzelt and K. Graichen An Investigation into the Viability of a Mobile Ultrasonic Array as a Sensor Substitute in an Autonomic Intelligent Environment 577 Guanitta Brady, Roy Sterritt, and George Wilkie A Multi-agent System for Autonomous Control of Game Parameters 583 Luc Pons and Carole Bernon Controlling Multiple Robots through Multiple 1D Homographies 589 Miguel Aranda, Gonzalo LÛpez-Nicol·s, and Carlos Sag¸Ès SMC: Systems Science - SYS-02 Fault Isolation by Comparison of Event Lists Using a Weighted Distance 595 Nabil Bouchair, Philippe Gayet, and Sylvie Charbonnier Fuzzy Scorecards, FHOWA, and a New Fuzzy Similarity Based Ranking Method for Selection of Human Resources 601 Pasi Luukka and Mikael Collan Simulation Gaming to Study Design and Management Decision-Making in Flexible Engineering Systems 607 Michel-Alexandre Cardin, Howard Ka-Ho Yue, Fu Haidong, Tang Loon Ching Jiang Yixin, Zhang Sizhe, and Huang Boray 
xiii 


Towards Understanding the Cost of Adaptation in Decomposition-Based Optimization Algorithms 615 Ioannis Giagkiozis, Robin C. Purshouse, and Peter J. Fleming Bootstrap Interval Estimation Methods for Cost-Optimal Software Release Planning 621 Shinji Inoue and Shigeru Yamada A New Multiple Traveling Salesman Problem and Its Genetic Algorithm-Based Solution 627 Jun Li, Qirui Sun, MengChu Zhou, and Xianzhong Dai SMC: Systems Science - SYS-04 An Interactive Decision Support Method for Measuring Risk in a Complex Supply Chain under Uncertainty 633 A.N. Zhang, Mark Goh, M. Terhorst, A.J.L. Lee, and M.T. Pham A Novel Spatial Belief Rule-Based Intelligent Decision Support System 639 Alberto Calzada, Jun Liu, Hui Wang, and Anil Kashyap Allocating Data Cubes on a Grid Environment Endorsing an Alternative Approach 645 Miguel Pinto and Orlando Belo A Non-parametric Harmony-Based Objective Reduction Method for Many-Objective Optimization 651 Alan R.R. Freitas, Peter J. Fleming, and Frederico G. Guimar„es Collaborative Analytics with Genetic Programming for Workflow Recommendation 657 Chee Seng Chong, Tianyou Zhang, Kee Khoon Lee, Gih Guang Hung Terence, and Bu-Sung Lee A Decision Support Model for Uncertainty Reasoning in Safety and Security Tasks 663 Steffen Michels, Marina Velikova, Arjen Hommersom, and Peter J.F. Lucas Collaborative Technologies and Applications - H13-01 An Overall Lifecycle Modeling Method for E-Learning Services and the Cooperative Mechanism Based on PCDA 669 Wenan Tan, Anqiong Tang, Tong Wang, W. Tan, Leer Li, and Zijian Zhang Information, Data Entry, and Reporting Requirements for a Resident Handoff of Care Support Tool 675 Ellen J. Bass, Kimberly Brantley, Thomas Perez, Matthew L. Bolton Adam Helms, Luther Bartelt, Rick Hall, George Hoke, Margaret Plews-Ogan Linda Waggoner-Fountain, and Stephen Borowitz 
xiv 


Facilitating Collaborative Learning in TaaS: A Mobile Cloud System for Enhancing Teamwork Performance 681 Geng Sun and Jun Shen Crowdsourcing Environments in E-Learning Scenario: A Classification Based on Educational and Collaboration Criteria 687 Carlos Eduardo Barbosa, Vanessa Janni Epelbaum, Marcio Antelio Jonice Oliveira, and Jano Moreira de Souza Characterization of Pediatric Resident Handover at Change of Shift to Inform Process Improvement 693 Ellen J. Bass, Linda A. Waggoner-Fountain, M.S. Richard Sledd M.S. Justin DeVoge, and Stephen M. Borowitz The Role of Collaboration Tools in Problem Solving Experience of Global Technical Support Center 699 Petri Mannonen and Venlakaisa Hıltt Modular Collaborative Simulation in Multibody System Dynamics of Complex Mechatronic Products 705 Heming Zhang, Huachao Mao, and Gongzhuang Peng Collaborative Discovering Influences of News in Social Network Sites 712 Li Ho Leung, Vincent T.Y. Ng, and Simon C.K. Shiu Decision Support Systems Based on Multicriteria Models S07-02 Multi-criteria Decision Making for Locating Multimodal Transfer Nodes in Passenger Transport Systems 718 Johanna Camargo-PÈrez, Jairo R. Montoya-Torres, and Martha H. Carrillo RamÌrez Group Decision Support Model for Prioritizing Information Systems Based on a Multicriteria Method 724 Ana Paula Henriques de Gusm„o, Ana Paula Cabral Seixas Costa and Maisa Silva MendonÁa A Framework to Select Edge Detection Method Using Multi-criteria Decision Making 730 Sidra Naeem and Sajid Siraj Municipal Human Development Index for Brazilian Cities Based on ELECTRE TRI-C 736 D.V.S. Pereira, C.M.M. Mota, and J.A.G. Miranda A Fuzzy-Based Possibility Measure Approach for Multi-expert Multi-criteria Selection Problem 741 Idris Igoulalene and Lyes Benyoucef 
xv 


Group Decision Approach to Adopt Green IT Practices Based on S.W.O.T Analysis 747 L.C. Silva, T. Poleto, J.A. de Moura, S.F.D. Daher, and A.P.C.S. Costa Distributed Adaptive Systems - S05-01 Agent Evaluation in Distributed Adaptive Systems 752 Haibin Zhu, Luming Feng, and Robert Pickering Managing Deregulated Energy Markets: An Adaptive and Autonomous Multi-agent System Application 758 Nicola Capodieci and Giacomo Cabri A Predictive Q-Learning Algorithm for Deflection Routing in Buffer-less Networks 764 Soroush Haeri, Majid Arianezhad, and Ljiljana Trajkovic Interactive Visualization of Dynamic and High-Dimensional Particle Swarm Behavior 770 Mark P. Wachowiak and Bryan B. Sarlo Dynamic Cluster Formation and Management in a Factory Wireless Sensor Network 776 Mohammad Gholami and Robert W. Brennan RECON: An Adaptive Human-Machine System for Supporting Intelligence Analysis 782 William Ross, Alexis Morris, Mihaela Ulieru, and Alexandre Bergeron Guyard Granular Computing - C05-01 A Rough-Set Feature Selection Model for Classification and Knowledge Discovery 788 Usman Qamar An Automatic Data Clustering Algorithm Based on Differential Evolution 794 Chun-Wei Tsai, Chiech-An Tai, and Ming-Chao Chiang Fuzzy Rule-Based System through Granular Computing 800 S. Sakinah, S. Ahmad, and Witold Pedrycz An Echo-Aided Bat Algorithm to Support Measurable Movement for Optimization Efficiency 806 Yi-Ting Chen, Tsair-Fwu Lee, Mong-Fong Horng, Jeng-Shyang Pan and Shu-Chuan Chu Incremental Induction of Probabilistic Rules Based on Incremental Sampling Scheme 812 Shusaku Tsumoto and Shoji Hirano 
xvi 


Computation of Maximal Characteristic Neighborhoods for Incomplete Information Systems 818 Fengming M. Chang and Chien-Chung Chan SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-05 Improved Quantum-Inspired Tabu Search Algorithm for Solving Function Optimization Problem 823 Yi-Jyuan Yang, Shu-Yu Kuo, Fang-Jhu Lin, I-I Liu, and Yao-Hsin Chou Leveraging Genetic Algorithm to Compose Web Services in a Context-Aware Environment 829 Zhichao Zhang, Shaoqiu Zheng, Weiping Li, Ying Tan, Zhonghai Wu, and Wei Tan Development of Learning Styles and Multiple Intelligences through Particle Swarm Optimization 835 F·bio F. de Moura, Lucas M. Franco, Sara L. de Melo, and M·rcia A. Fernandes A Dynamic Multiobjective Evolutionary Algorithm for Multicast Routing Problem 841 Marcos L.P. Bueno and Gina M.B. Oliveira A Novel Visibility Restoration Algorithm for Single Hazy Images 847 Wei-Jheng Wang, Bo-Hao Chen, and Shih-Chia Huang SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-06 Tracking Visitor's Fields of Interest in Large Scale Art Installations 852 Brandon J. DeHart and Rob Gorbet Disparity Diffusion/Absorption-Based Stereo Matching Using Cellular Evolutionary Neural Network with Initial Disparity Optimization 858 Tomohiro Nagata and Tomoharu Nagao Data Modeling Using Channel-Remapped Generalized Features 864 Houtan Rahmanian and Manfred Huber Human Motion Capture Using 3D Reconstruction Based on Multiple Depth Data 870 Wassim Filali, Jean-Thomas Masse, Frederic Lerasle, Jean-Louis Boizard and Michel Devy Computational Methods for Selective Acquisition of Depth Measurements in Machine Perception 876 Pierre Payeur, Phillip Curtis, and Ana-Maria Cretu 
xvii 


SMC: Human-Machine - HM-03 Evaluation of a Virtual Reality and Haptic Simulation of a Block Design Test 882 Michael Clamann, Wenqi Ma, and David B. Kaber Analysis of the Characteristics of Adaptive Systems 888 Michael C. Dorneich, Kellie A. McGrath, Rachel F. Dudley, and Max D. Morris An Approach Related to Uncertainty in Software Projects 894 Marcelo Marinho, Suzana Sampaio, and Hermano Moura Example of a Complementary Use of Model Checking and Agent-Based Simulation 900 Gabriel E. Gelman, Karen M. Feigh, and John Rushby A Robust Method for Human Pose Estimation Based on Geodesic Distance Features 906 Sebastian Handrich and Ayoub Al-Hamadi SMC: Systems Science - SYS-05 Using Cross-Efficiency Fuzzy Data Envelopment Analysis for Healthcare Facilities Performance Evaluation under Uncertainty 912 Nicola Costantino, Mariagrazia Dotoli, Nicola Epicoco, Marco Falagario and Fabio Sciancalepore Managing Cycles of Innovation Processes of Product-Service Systems 918 Sebastian A. Schenkl, Florian G.H. Behncke, Clemens Hepperle Stefan Langer, and Udo Lindemann Towards a Framework to Assess Legacy Systems 924 Basem Y. Alkazemi, Mohammed K. Nour, and Abdulqader Qada Meelud Formation Control of a Group of Micro Aerial Vehicles \(MAVs 929 Mehmet Ali Guney and Mustafa Unel Optimization of Single-Manufacturer Multiple-Contractors Outsourcing Relationship in Integrated Approach of Production, Maintenance and Quality 935 Mohammed Haoues, Nadia Kinza Mouss, Mohammed Dahane, and Nidhal Rezg Cooperative Steering Assist Control System 941 Chouki Sentouh, Boussaad Soualmi, Jean-Christophe Popieul and Serge Debernard SMC: Systems Science - SYS-06 Challenges in Clinical Named Entity Recognition for Decision Support 947 Azad Dehghan, John A. Keane, and Goran Nenadic 
xviii 


IdeaGraph: A Graph-Based Algorithm of Mining Latent Information for Human Cognition 952 Hao Wang, Fanjiang Xu, Xiaohui Hu, and Yukio Ohsawa AMOSA Based Approach for Process Plan Generation in Reconfigurable Manufacturing System with Machine Load Balancing 958 Abderahmane Bensmaine, Mohammed Dahane, and Lyes Benyoucef Decision Support System to Project Software Management 964 Vilmar Santos Nepomuceno and Marcele Elisa Fontana Minimizing Impact of Bounded Uncertainty on McNaughton's Scheduling Algorithm via Interval Programming 970 Ahmad Hossny, Saeid Nahavandi, and Douglas Creighton Intelligent Stock Trading System Based on QTS Algorithm in Japanís Stock Market 977 Yao-Hsin Chou, Shu-Yu Kuo, Chun Kuo, and Yung-Che Tsai Soft Computing - C12-02 Multi Reservoir Support Vector Echo State Machine for Multivariate Time Series Prediction 983 Min Han and Xinying Wang Prediction of Concrete Strength Using Floating Centroids Method 988 Lin Wang, Bo Yang, and Ajith Abraham Neural Combinatorial Learning of Goal-Directed Behavior with Reservoir Critic and Reward Modulated Hebbian Plasticity 993 Sakyasingha Dasgupta, Florentin Wˆrgˆtter, Jun Morimoto and Poramate Manoonpong Credal Classification of Uncertain Data Using Belief Functions 1001 Zhun-ga Liua, Quan Pana, Jean Dezertb, and Gregoire Mercierc An Alternative to SOCIFS Writer Identification Framework for Handwritten Authorship 1007 Satrya Fajri Pratama, Azah Kamilah Muda, Ajith Abraham, and Noor Azilah Muda An Information-Theoretic Approach for Setting the Optimal Number of Decision Trees in Random Forests 1013 Alfredo Cuzzocrea, Shane Leo Francis, and Mohamed Medhat Gaber 
xix 


Collaborative Technologies and Applications - H13-02 A Personalized Hybrid Recommendation System Oriented to E-Commerce Mass Data in the Cloud 1020 Fang Dong, Junzhou Luo, Xia Zhu, Yuxiang Wang, and Jun Shen OPERAM: A Collaborative Semantic Workspace for Software Verification 1026 Edenilson JosÈ da Silva, Emerson Torquato, Milton Pires Ramos and Emerson Cabrera Paraiso Towards a Framework for Crowdsourced Collection, Cleaning and Measurement of Digital Content 1032 Carlos Gomes, Daniel Schneider, Jano de Souza, and Geraldo Xexeo Pulse Width Modulation \(PWM Active and Reactive Power Measurement 1040 Anastasios G. Bakaoukas, Kuo-Ming Chao, and Weidong Li Environmental Sensing, Networking, and Decision Making S25-01 Comparative Data Fusion between Genetic Programing and Neural Network Models for Remote Sensing Images of Water Quality Monitoring 1046 Ni-Bin Chang and Benjamin Vannah Indoor Positioning with Virtual Fingerprint Mapping by Using Linear and Exponential Taper Functions 1052 Hakan Koyuncu and Shuang Hua Yang Scientific Issues and Progress of the Chinese Integrated Earth Observation Sensor Web Project 1058 Nengcheng Chen, Fangling Pu, Chuli Hu, Xiang Zhang, Wenying Du and Liangpei Zhang A Quantized Consensus Algorithm for a Multi-agent Assignment Problem 1063 Maria Pia Fanti, Walter Ukovich, Agostino Marcello Mangini and Giovanni Pedroncelli Real-Time Traffic Camera-Light Control Systems for Intersections Subject to Accidents: A Petri Net Approach 1069 Liang Qi, MengChu Zhou, and ZhiJun Ding Hyper-heuristic Based Resource Scheduling in Grid Environment 1075 Rajni Aron, Inderveer Chana, and Ajith Abraham Real Time Detection of Soil Moisture and Nitrates Using On-Board In-Situ Impedance Spectroscopy 1081 Gunjan Pandey, Ratnesh Kumar, and Robert J. Weber 
xx 


An Hybrid Senor Localization Algorithm for Wireless Sensor Networks 1087 Lichuan Liu and Geetha Mavidi Granular Computing - C05-02 Degree Anonymization for K-Shortest-Path Privacy 1093 Shyue-Liang Wang, Ching-Chuan Shih, I-Hsien Ting, and Tzung-Pei Hong Applying NSGA-II for Solving the Ontology Alignment Problem 1098 Giovanni Acampora, Uzay Kaymak, Vincenzo Loia, and Autilia Vitiello Enhancing the Efficiency in Mining Weighted Frequent Itemsets 1104 Guo-Cheng Lan, Tzung-Pei Hong, Hong Yu Lee, Shyue-Liang Wang and Chun-Wei Tsai Intelligent Real-Time Automation and Agent-Based Systems S06-01 Multi-agent Simulation Research on Knowledge Management Strategies of R&D Enterprises 1109 Kou Xiao-dong, Wang Zhi-yu, and Yang Lin Cooperative Control of Multi-robots Using Mobile Agents in a Three-Dimensional Environment 1115 Chihiro Yokoyama, Munehiro Takimoto, and Yasushi Kambayashi Practical Performance Aspects of Using Real-Time Multi-agent Platform in Complex Systems 1121 Dariusz KrÛl and Filip Nowakowski SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-07 Reconstruction of Bifurcation Diagrams Using Extreme Learning Machines 1127 Yuta Tada and Masaharu Adachi Affective Engineering for Streetscape Analysis: Evaluation of Traditional Japanese Mud Walls Using a Self-Organizing Map 1132 Asumi Nagaoka, Rina Ogawa, and Toshio Tsuchiya An Enhanced GHSOM for IDS 1138 Maher Salem and Ulrich Buehler Quaternion Neural Networks Applied to Prostate Cancer Gleason Grading 1144 Aaron Greenblatt, Clara Mosquera-Lopez, and Sos Agaian Similarity-Based Image Retrieval Considering Size and Color of Artifacts by Self-Organizing Map with Refractoriness 1150 Takahiro Yamane, Ryuya Ohno, and Yuko Osana Pattern Separation Ability in Chaotic Quaternionic Associative Memory 1157 Saori Kato and Yuko Osana 
xxi 


Shape from Shading by Model Inclusive Learning - Simultaneous Estimation of Reflection Parameters 1165 Yasuaki Kuroe and Hajimu Kawakami Wrapper Feature Selection Significantly Improves Nonlinear Prediction of Electricity Spot Prices 1171 Martin Macaö and Lenka Lhotsk SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-08 Improved Neural Based Writer Adaptation for On-Line Recognition Systems 1175 Lobna Haddad, Tarek M. Hamdani, and Adel M. Alimi Segmentation of Human Body Movement Using Inertial Measurement Unit 1181 Takashi Aoki, Gentiane Venture, and Dana Kulic A Classification System for Gray Scale Images by Using Combination of Simple Figures 1187 Ryoji Ohira, Noriko Yata, and Tomoharu Nagao A Self-Organizing Method Using Data Movement on Spherical Surface 1193 Kota Saito and Tomoharu Nagao Using Wavelet and Bayesian Decision Theory in Real-Time Prostate Volume Measurements 1199 Hossein Farid Ghassem Nia and Huosheng Hu A Framework for Real-Time Hand Gesture Recognition in Uncontrolled Environments with Partition Matrix Model Based on Hidden Conditional Random Fields 1205 Yi Yao and Chang-Tsun Li Local Difference of Gaussian Binary Pattern: Robust Features for Face Sketch Recognition 1211 Ann Theja Alex, Vijayan K. Asari, and Alex Mathew Shoreline Segmentation as a Proxy to Coastal Erosion Detection 1217 C.A.B. Mello, T.J. dos Santos, H.R. Medeiros, and P.S. Pereira SMC: Systems Science - SYS-07 Analysis of Joint Correlation between Arm and Lower Body in Dart Throwing Motion 1223 Junki Nakagawa, Qi An, Yuki Ishikawa, Hiroyuki Oka, Kaoru Takakusaki Hiroshi Yamakawa, Atsushi Yamashita, and Hajime Asama An Investigative Approach to Software Aging in Android Applications 1229 Jean Araujo, Vandi Alves, Danilo Oliveira, Pedro Dias, Bruno Silva and Paulo Maciel 
xxii 


Holonic Goal-Driven Scheduling Model for Manufacturing Networks 1235 Guiovanni Jules, Mozafar Saadat, and Salman Saeidlou Energy Based Position Control of Jansen Walking Robot 1241 Shunsuke Nansai, Masami Iwase, and Mohan Rajesh Elara Design of Warehouse Including Temporary Storage Using Queuing Network Theory 1247 Motoyuki Ozaki, Tatsunori Hara, Toshimitsu Higashi, and Jun Ota Phase Locked Synchronization for Kuramoto Model, with Attractive and Repulsive Interconnections 1253 Ali El-Ati and Elena Panteley Control Stability of TP Model Transformation Design via Probabilistic Error Bound of Plant Model 1259 King Keung Wu and Yeung Yam State of the Art and Future Trends of Optimality and Adaptability Articulated Mechanisms for Manufacturing Control Systems 1265 Jose-Fernando Jimenez, Abdhelghani Bekrar, Damien Trentesaux Jairo R. Montoya-Torres, and Paulo Leit„o SMC: Systems Science - SYS-08 Network Analysis of the Inter-organizational Collaboration in Emergency Management System of China 1271 Yong Wang, Chuanfeng Han, and Liang Liu Interaction of Multi-interorganizational Relationships of Emergency Organizations of 2008 Wenchuan Earthquake in China 1276 Kong Jingjing and Han Chuanfeng A New Approach to Improve the Overall Accuracy and the Filter Value Accuracy of the GM \(1,1 1,1 1282 Arjab Singh Khuman, Yingjie Yang, and Robert John Measuring and Managing the Smartness of Cities: A Framework for Classifying Performance Indicators 1288 Raffaele Carli, Mariagrazia Dotoli, Roberta Pellegrino, and Luigi Ranieri Agent-Based Modeling and Simulation for Supply Chain Risk Management - A Survey of the State-of-the-Art 1294 Xianshun Chen, Yew-Soon Ong, Puay-Siew Tan, NengSheng Zhang and Zhengping Li A New Inspection Heuristic for a Condition-Based Maintenance Policy in a Spare Part Returns Context 1300 H. Boudhar, M. Dahane, and N. Rezg 
xxiii 


Block Matching with Particle Swarm Optimization for Motion Estimation 1306 Niyazi Sorkunlu, Ugur Sahin, and Ferat Sahin Agent-Based Modeling and Neural Network for Residential Customer Demand Response 1312 Fang Yuan Xu, Xue Wang, Loi Lei Lai, and Chun Sing Lai Soft Computing - C12-03 Genetic Programming Based Composite Filter for Rician Noise Reduction 1317 Muhammad Sharif, Muhammad Arfan Jaffar, and Muhammad Tariq Mahmood A Learning Classifier System Based on Genetic Network Programming 1323 Xianneng Li and Kotaro Hirasawa Fitness Landscape Approximation by Adaptive Support Vector Regression with Opposition-Based Learning 1329 Yan Pei and Hideyuki Takagi Deterministic Particle Swarm Optimizers with Collision for Discrete Multi-solution Problems 1335 Kazuki Maruyama and Toshimichi Saito A New Population Initialization Approach Based on Bordered Hessian for Portfolio Optimization Problems 1341 Yukiko Orito, Yoshiko Hanada, Shunsuke Shibata, and Hisashi Yamamoto A Set-Based Discrete Differential Evolution Algorithm 1347 Yu Liu, Wei-Neng Chen, Zhi-Hui Zhan, Ying Lin, Yue-Jiao Gong, and Jun Zhang Contradiction Resolution with Dependent Input Neuron Selection for Self-Organizing Maps 1353 Ryotaro Kamimura Steganalysis for JPEG Images Using Extreme Learning Machine 1361 Veenu Bhasin and Punam Bedi Decision Support Systems for Management Science - S10-02 Generic Expert System and Its Application in Knowledge Modelling and Inference 1367 Khalil AbuDahab, Dong-ling Xu, and Yu-wang Chen A Genetic Algorithm Search Heuristic for Belief Rule-Based Model-Structure Validation 1373 Emanuel-Emil Savan, Jian-Bo Yang, Dong-Ling Xu, and Yu-Wang Chen ReFlex: An Efficient Graph-Based Rule Engine to Execute Declarative Processes 1379 Renata M. de Carvalho, Nat·lia C. Silva, Ricardo M. F. Lima and M·rcio L. CornÈlio 
xxiv 


An Evaluation of Website Upgrade Options: A Case Study Comparison of ANFIS and RIMER 1385 Andrada Sabin, Dong-Ling Xu, Yu-Wang Chen, and Emanuel-Emil Savan Distributed Optimization and Collective Intelligence - C01-01 A Multi-agent Genetic Algorithm for Multi-objective Optimization 1391 Andranik S. Akopov and Maxim A. Hevencev Cohort Intelligence: A Self Supervised Learning Behavior 1396 Anand J. Kulkarni, Ishan P. Durugkar, and Mrinal Kumar Automatic Multi-sensor Task Allocation Using Modified Distributed Bees Algorithm 1401 Itshak Tkach, Yael Edan, Aleksandar Jevtic, and Shimon Y. Nof Optimized Energy-Efficient Iterative Distributed Localization for Wireless Sensor Networks 1407 Mansoor-ul-haque, Farrukh Aslam Khan, and Mohsin Iftikhar Service Science for Managing Creativity, Innovation and Openness - S11-01 Comparative Study of Service-Based Security-Aware Business Processes Automation Tools 1413 Fernando Lins, Julio Damasceno, Robson Medeiros, Erica Sousa and Nelson Rosa Towards Effective Event-Driven SOA in Enterprise Systems 1419 Quirino Zagarese, Angelo Furno, Gerardo Canfora, and Eugenio Zimeo Identifying Consonance Relationships between Worker and Organization for Fostering Creativity: A Knowledge Based Approach 1425 Angelo Gaeta, Pierluigi Ritrovato, Saverio Salerno, and Vincenzo Loia Boosting the Innovation Process in Collaborative Environments 1432 Valerio Bellandi, Paolo Ceravolo, Ernesto Damiani, Fulvio Frati Guido Lena Cota, and Jonatan Maggesi Keynote C 
xxv 


Automation Technology and Innovative Intelligence Applications - C10-01 Design and Implementation of a Single-Stage High-Efficacy LED Driver with Dynamic Voltage Regulation 1438 Shun-Yuan Wang, Chwan-Lu Tseng, Shou-Chuang Lin, Shun-Chung Wang Ching-Lin Chen, and Jen-Hsiang Chou Fuzzy Cognitive Map Based Situation Assessment Framework for Navigation Goal Detection 1444 Nuwan Ganganath, Martin Walker, and Henry Leung Adaptive Visual Servoing of Micro Aerial Vehicle with Switched System Model for Obstacle Avoidance 1450 Cheng-Ming Huang, Ming-Li Chiang, and Li-Chen Fu Reduction of Torque and Flux Variations Using Fuzzy Direct Torque Control System in Motor Drive 1456 Guo-Ming Sung, Wen-Sheng Lin, and Sheng-Kai Peng Demand Response Optimization for Smart Home Scheduling Using Genetic Algorithm 1461 Chao-Rong Chen, Ming-Jen Lan, Chi-Chen Huang, Ying-Yi Hong and Steven H. Low Emerging Technologies in Medical Mechatronics - S13-01 Development of a Bed-Centered Telehealth System Based on a Motion-Sensing Mattress 1466 Yu-Wei Liu and Yeh-Liang Hsu Design and Assessment of a Real-Time Accelerometer-Based Lying-to-Sit Sensing System for Bed Fall Prevention 1471 Wen-Cheng Chou, Wen-Yen Lin, Ming-Yih Lee, and Kin Fong Lei Controlling the False Positive Rate of a Two-State Self-Paced Brain-Computer Interface 1476 Yi-Hung Liu, Chun-Wei Huang, and Yu-Tsung Hsiao Comparison of Baseline Tremor under Various Microsurgical Conditions 1482 Trent S. Wells, Sungwook Yang, Robert A. MacLachlan, James T. Handa Peter Gehlbach, and Cameron Riviere Automatic Steering of Manually Inserted Needles 1488 Guofan Wu, Xiao Li, Craig A. Lehocky, and Cameron N. Riviere 
xxvi 


Simple and Effective Machine Learning for Big Data - C11-01 Big Data Framework 1494 Firat Tekiner and John A. Keane The Incremental Risk Functional: Basics of a Novel Incremental Learning Approach 1500 Andreas Buschermˆhle, Jan Schoenke, Nils Rosemann, and Werner Brockmann A Study on Classification in Imbalanced and Partially-Labelled Data Streams 1506 R.J. Lyon, J.M. Brooke, J.D. Knowles, and B.W. Stappers A New Post Correction Algorithm \(PoCoA Recognition 1512 Zelun Zhang and Stefan Poslad Two Extensions to Multi-label Correlation-Based Feature Selection: A Case Study in Bioinformatics 1519 Suwimol Jungjit, M. Michaelis, Alex A. Freitas, and J. Cinatl SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-09 Localization of RGB-D Camera Networks by Skeleton-Based Viewpoint Invariance Transformation 1525 Yun Han, Sheng-Luen Chung, Jeng-Sheng Yeh, and Qi-Jun Chen Generalized Bass Diffusion Model \(GBDM Teaching Material Sharing Network Application 1531 Rong-Huei Chen and Shi-Chung Chang Eve: A Novel Open-Source Web-Based Agent Platform 1537 Jos de Jong, Ludo Stellingwerff, and Giovanni E. Pazienza Solving Problems with Extended Reachability Goals through Reinforcement Learning on Propositionally Constrained State Spaces 1542 Anderson V. de Araujo and Carlos H.C. Ribeiro On Practical Stability of a Network of Coupled Nonlinear Limit-Cycle Oscillators 1548 Elena Panteley and Ali El-Ati SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-10 Cryptanalysis of a Digital Watermarking Scheme Based on Support Vector Regression 1554 Madhuri Siddula, Somitra Sanadhya, and A.V. Subramanyam An Efficient Batch Verification Protocol for Value Added Services 1560 Neetesh Saxena and Narendra S. Chaudhari 
xxvii 


Dynamic Behaviour of Chaotic Cellular Automata - A Comparative Entropy Analysis of Regular Lattices and Small-World Structures 1566 Heverton B. MacÍdo, Gina M.B. Oliveira, and Carlos H.C. Ribeiro Privacy Visor: Method Based on Light Absorbing and Reflecting Properties for Preventing Face Image Detection 1572 Takayuki Yamada, Seiichi Gohshi, and Isao Echizen Motion Compensation Techniques in Permutation-Based Video Encryption 1578 Caio C. Sabino, Lais S. Andrade, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti Tsang Ing Jyh, and Jan Sijbers SMC: Human-Machine - HM-05 A Framework to Classify Processes in the Field of Human-Machine Systems Engineering 1582 Daniel Ley LIBRAS Sign Language Hand Configuration Recognition Based on 3D Meshes 1588 Andres JessÈ Porfirio, Kelly LaÌs Wiggers, Luiz E.S. Oliveira and Daniel Weingaertner Responses to Warnings and the Effect of Notifications in a Simulated Robot-Control Task 1594 Guillaume Doisy and Joachim Meyer A Novel Instrumented Cycle Ergometer with Automated In-Situ Capabilities 1599 N. Chakravorti, P.P. Conway, A.A. West, and S.E. Slawson A Machine Learning Method for Identification of Key Body Poses in Cyclic Physical Exercises 1605 Pablo Fern·ndez de Dios, Qinggang Meng, and Paul W.H. Chung SMC: Systems Science - SYS-09 Random Search for Dispatch and Conflict-Free Routing Problem of Capacitated AGV Systems 1611 Toshiyuki Miyamoto and Kensuke Inoue The Dynamic Quality Control Method Based on Similar Weighted Network and Its Application 1616 Guangzhou Diao, Liping Zhao, Yiyong Yao, and Jie Wang Estimation of Marbling Score in Live Cattle Based on ICA and a Neural Network 1622 Osamu Fukuda, Natsuko Nabeoka, and Tsuneharu Miyajima 
xxviii 


Control Scheme for Automatically Controlling the Milling System in between Optimal Working Points 1628 L. Rubio, A.P. Longstaff, S. Fletcher, A. Myers, and M. De La Sen In-Vivo Fault Analysis and Real-Time Fault Prediction for RF Generators Using State-of-the-Art Classifiers 1634 Girish Chandrashekar, Ferat Sahin, Eyup Cinar, Aaron Radomski and Dan Sarosky SMC: Systems Science - SYS-10 Muscle Force Control of a Kinematically Redundant Bionic Arm with Real-Time Parameter Update 1640 Haiwei Dong, Nadia Figueroa, and Abdulmotaleb El Saddik Congruence Transformation Invariant Feature Descriptor for Robust 2D Scan Matching 1648 Takayuki Nakamura and Yuuichi Tashita The Rod-Bearing Problem: A Cooperative Autonomous Robotics Application Based on Artificial Idiotypic Immune Networks 1654 Hossam Meshref The Iceberg Observation Problem: Using Multiple Agents to Monitor and Observe Ablating Target Sources 1660 Richard A. Coogle and Ayanna M. Howard Adaptive Intelligent Controller Design for a New Quadrotor Manipulation System 1666 Ahmed Khalifa, Mohamed Fanni, Ahmed Ramadan, and Ahmed Abo-Ismail Soft Computing - C12-04 An Ant Colony Optimization Approach for Nurse Rostering Problem 1672 Jie-jun Wu, Ying Lin, Zhi-hui Zhan, Wei-neng Chen, Ying-biao Lin and Jian-yong Chen Shape Extraction Method Using Search for Convex Hull by Genetic Algorithm 1677 Mitsukuni Matayoshi On the Use of Chaos in Nature-Inspired Optimization Methods 1684 Pavel Krˆmer, V·clav Sn·öel, and Ivan Zelinka Interactive Tabu Search with Paired Comparison for Optimizing Fragrance 1690 Makoto Fukumoto, Makoto Inoue, Keiji Kawai, and Jun-ichi Imai An Approach to Consider Diversity Issues from a Semantic Point of View 1696 Masaki Suzuki, Takaaki Motomura, Setsuo Tsuruta, Yoshitaka Sakurai and Rainer Knauf 
xxix 


Systems of Systems - S01-01 A Framework for Characterising Complex Systems and System of Systems 1702 Ali Hessami Dynamic Games among Agents with Partial Information of the Structure of the Interactions Graph: Decision Making and Complexity Issues 1709 Ioannis Kordonis and George P. Papavassilopoulos Economic and Societal Significance of the Systems of Systems Research Agenda 1715 Huseyin Dogan, Cornelius Ncube, Soo Ling Lim, Michael Henshaw Carys Siemieniuch, Murray Sinclair, Vishal Barot, Sharon Henson Mo Jamshidi, and Dan DeLaurentis Emergent and Adaptive Systems of Systems 1721 Eduardo Alonso and Michael Fairbank Incorporating Architecture Patterns in a SoS Optimization Framework 1726 R.S. Kalawsky, Y. Tian, D. Joannou, R.S. Kalawsky, Y. Tian, D. Joannou I. Sanduka, and M. Masin Systems of Systems: A Control Theoretic View 1732 Nicos Karcanias Automation Technology and Innovative Intelligence Applications - C10-02 Gesture Recognition Using Improved Hierarchical Hidden Markov Algorithm 1738 Kuang-Yow Lian and Ben-Huang Lin A Case Study of Object Identification Using a Kinect Sensor 1743 Zheng-Yang Huang, Jung-Tang Huang, and Chih-Ming Hsu Reversed Recursive Transformation for Forward Kinematics of Articulated Robotic Arms 1748 Hsiang-Lin Tu and Ping-Ho Chen Rate Command of Robot Joint Shaped by Fuzzified Weighting and Error-Projected Gradient-Descent 1754 Hsiang-Lin Tu and Ping-Ho Chen Path Planning for CNC Machines Considering Centripetal Acceleration and Jerk 1759 Abbas Shahzadeh, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi 
xxx 


Conflict Resolution - S16-01 Online Gaming for Sustainable Common Pool Resource Management and Tragedy of the Commons Prevention 1765 Tyler Pierce and Kaveh Madani Comparative Study of Workshop Discussions from the Viewpoint of Social Context 1771 Madoka Chosokabe, Haya Umeda, and Hiroyuki Sakakibara Stability Analysis of the Proposed Caspian Sea Governance Methods 1777 Iman Behmanesh, Kaveh Madani, Christopher D. Geiger, and Aram Bahrini The Way Forward after the Durban Climate Change Conference: A Strategic Analysis 1783 Yasir M. Aljefri, Keith W. Hipel, and Liping Fang Disaster Anxiety Measurement and Corpus-Based Content Analysis of Crisis Communication 1789 Seung-ji Baek, Hayeong Jeong, and Kiyoshi Kobayashi Medical Image and Signal Processing - S22-01 A Macrophage Simulator for Understanding Its Dynamic Behaviour from Video Images 1795 Benjamin Culeux, Tomoharu Nakashima, Toshinobu Hayashi, Manabu Nii and Yutaka Komai Interactive Fuzzy Connectedness Image Segmentation for Neonatal Brain MR Image Segmentation 1799 Syoji Kobashi, Kei Kuramoto, and Yutaka Hata Construction of an Interactive System Aims to Extract Expert Knowledge about the Condition Cultured Corneal Endothelial Cells 1805 Tomoyuki Hiroyasu, Kiyofumi Uehori, Utako Yamamoto, and Misato Tanaka Extracting Rules for Cell Segmentation in Corneal Endothelial Cell Images Using GP 1811 Tomoyuki Hiroyasu, Shunsuke Sekiya, Sakito Nunokawa, Noriko Koizumi Naoki Okumura, and Utako Yamamoto Consideration about Utilizing Text Architecture for Making Feature Vectors in Classifying Nursing-Care Texts 1817 Manabu Nii, Shouta Miyake, Kazunobu Takahama, Atsuko Uchinuno and Reiko Sakashita 
xxxi 


Shared Control - H03-01 Haptic Support for Bi-manual Control of a Suspended Grab for Deep-Sea Excavation 1822 Roel J. Kuiper, Jan C.L. Frumau, Frans C.T. van der Helm, and David A. Abbink Robot Assistance Selection for Large Object Manipulation with a Human 1828 Julie Dumora, Franck Geffard, Catherine Bidard, Nikos A. Aspragathos and Philippe Fraisse Shaping Couzin-Like Torus Swarms through Coordinated Mediation 1834 Shin-Young Jung, Daniel S. Brown, and Michael A. Goodrich The Effect of the Viewing Distance of Stimulus on SSVEP Response for Use in Brain-Computer Interfaces 1840 Chi-Hsu Wu and Heba Lakany Direct and Indirect Haptic Aiding for Curve Negotiation 1846 Luca Profumo, Lorenzo Pollini, and David A. Abbink SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-11 The Logic of Information Merge and Sequential Information 1853 Norihiro Kamide Modeling and Verifying Inconsistency-Tolerant Temporal Reasoning with Hierarchical Information: Dealing with Students' Learning Processes 1859 Norihiro Kamide Formalizing Inconsistency-Tolerant Relevant Human Reasoning: A Decidable Paraconsistent Relevant Logic with Constructible Falsity 1865 Norihiro Kamide A Robust Multiple Ant Colony System for the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem 1871 N.E. Toklu, R. Montemanni, and L.M. Gambardella SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-12 Meanshift Clustering Based Trend Analysis Distance for Fault Diagnosis 1877 Sabra El Ferchichi, Salah Zidl, Kaouther Laabidi, Moufida Ksouri and Salah Maouche Ensemble of Cost-Sensitive Hypernetworks for Class-Imbalance Learning 1883 Jin Wang, Ping-li Huang, Kai-wei Sun, Bao-lin Cao, and Rui Zhao Truncation Error Compensation in Kernel Machines 1889 Jason P. Rhinelander and Xiaoping P. Liu Hierarchical Classification of Bird Species Using Their Audio Recorded Songs 1895 Carlos N. Silla Jr. and Celso A.A. Kaestner 
xxxii 


An Evaluation of Symbolic Feature Sets and Their Combination for Music Genre Classification 1901 Hanna C.B. Piccoli, Carlos N. Silla Jr., Pedro J. Ponce de LÈon and Antonio Pertusa SMC: Human-Machine - HM-06 Conception and Design of a Hardware Simulator for Restoring Lost Biomechanical Function 1906 P. Beckerle, L. Lahnstein, J. Wojtusch, S. Rinderknecht, and O. von Stryk Quantitative Evaluation of Distracted Driving by Using a PrARX Model 1912 Kazuma Kato, Yuichi Tazaki, Tatsuya Suzuki, Blaine Levedahl, and Hiroyuki Okuda Optimization of Waiting Time in H-R Coordination 1918 Roy Someshwar and Yoav Kerner The Impact of Single-Operator versus Team Tele-operation of a Search Vehicle 1924 Adrian Matheson, Birsen Donmez, Faisal Ansari, and Saad Ahmed Modeling UASs for Role Fusion and Human Machine Interface Optimization 1929 T.J. Gledhill, Eric Mercer, and Michael A. Goodrich SMC: Systems Science - SYS-11 Business and IT Design with SEAM: An Illustration with the PhD Hiring Process at …cole Polytechnique FÈdÈrale de Lausanne 1938 George Popescu, Gorica Tapandjieva, and Alain Wegmann Scheduling Airline Reserve Crew to Minimise Crew Related Delay Using Simulated Airline Recovery and a Probabilistic Optimisation Model 1944 Chris Bayliss, Geert De Maere, Jason Atkin, and Marc Paelinck Control System of the Malaxing State for the Olive Paste Based on Computer Vision and Fuzzy Logic 1951 D. MartÌnez Gila, P. Cano Marchal, J. G·mez GarcÌa, and J. GÛmez Ortega A PLC-Based PI and Pi-Fuzzy Logic Controller for an Industrial Fan System 1957 Ronaldo R.B. Aquino, Zanoni D. Lins, Luiz F.A. Cordeiro, Thiago D. Cordeiro Davidson C. Marques, Leo Bottler, and Rodolfo G.S. Leite An Analysis Approach for Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis in Pantograph-Catenary System 1963 Ebru Karakˆse and Muhsin Tunay GenÁoglu 
xxxiii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-12 A Comparative Study of Collision Avoidance Techniques for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles 1969 Alexander Alexopoulos, Amr Kandil, Piotr Orzechowski and Essameddin Badreddin Mapping for Unknown Environments Using Triangulated Maps 1975 Amna AlDahak, Lakmal Seneviratne, and Jorge Dias Effective Combination of Search Policy Based on Probability and Entropy for Heterogeneous Mobile Sensors 1981 Ken Imai and Toshimitsu Ushio Effect of Virtual Work Braking on Distributed Multi-robot Reinforcement Learning 1987 Hiroshi Kawano Intersensory Causality Modeling Using Deep Neural Networks 1995 Kuniaki Noda, Hiroaki Arie, Yuki Suga, and Testuya Ogata Soft Computing - C12-05 Effects of the Number of Opponents on the Evolution of Cooperation in the Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma 2001 Hisao Ishibuchi, Takahiko Sudo, Koichiro Hoshino, and Yusuke Nojima Data Combination Privacy Preservation Adjusting Mechanism for Software as a Service 2007 Zhang Kun, Ajith Abraham, and Shi Yuliang Decentralized Longitudinal Tracking Control for Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control Systems in a Platoon 2013 Shi-Yuan Han, Yue-Hui Chen, Lin Wang, and Ajith Abraham Differential Search Algorithm Based Design of Fractional Order PID Controller for Hard Disk Drive Read/Write System 2019 Anguluri Rajasekhar, Millie Pant, and Ajith Abraham Particle Swarm Optimization with Protozoic Behaviour 2026 V·clav Sn·öel, Pavel Krˆmer, and Ajith Abraham Conflict Resolution - S16-02 Conflict Analysis on the Enforced-Move-by-Majority Rule in a Group Decisionmaking Situation 2031 Kei Fukuyama, Na Jong-il, and Takashi Kawabata 
xxxiv 


A Case Study of Grey-Based Preference in a Graph Model for Conflict Resolution with Two Decision Makers 2037 Hanbin Kuang, Keith W. Hipel, D. Marc Kilgourt, and M. Abul Bashar Game Theoretical Analysis of Water Allocation Rule in Lower Basin of Euphrates and Tigris Rivers 2042 Maiko Sakamoto, Yukio Tanaka, Kazimierz A. Salewicz, and Mikiyasu Nakayama Characterization of a Conflict 2050 Yasser T. Matbouli, Keith W. Hipel, and D. Marc Kilgour A Concept of State-Independent Stability within Graph Model for Conflict Resolution: Dual-Partitioning State Approach 2055 Kentaro Kojima Forecasting Model of Grey Numbers with Triangular Whitenization Weight Function 2061 Xue-mei Lia and Keith W. Hipel Innovative Technologies and Applications in Computer Intelligence - C04-01 ERSP: An Energy-Efficient Real-Time Smartphone Pedometer 2067 Thomas Olutoyin Oshin and Stefan Poslad Effects of Images Displayed for Praising or Scolding on Motivation in E-Learning 2073 Masakazu Takeue, Kenichi Takahashi, and Michimasa Inaba Density-Based Spatiotemporal Clustering Algorithm for Extracting Bursty Areas from Georeferenced Documents 2079 Keiichi Tamura and Takumi Ichimura A Clonal Selection Algorithm with Levenshtein Distance Based Image Similarity in Multidimensional Subjective Tourist Information and Discovery of Cryptic Spots by Interactive GHSOM 2085 Takumi Ichimura and Shin Kamada A Flexible Tour Route Planning Problem with Time-Dependent Parameters Considering Rescheduling Based on Current Conditions 2091 Takashi Hasuike, Hiroe Tsubaki, Hideki Katagiri, and Hiroshi Tsuda Possibilistic Mean Models for Linear Programming Problems with Discrete Fuzzy Random Variables 2097 Hideki Katagiri, Takeshi Uno, and Kosuke Kato 
xxxv 


Matrix and Tensor Analysis for Big Vision - C02-01 Image-Based 3D Human Pose Recovery with Locality Sensitive Sparse Retrieval 2103 Chaoqun Hong, Jun Yu, and Xuhui Chen Bayesian Matrix Factorization for Face Recognition 2109 Jiang Bian, Xinbo Gao, and Xiumei Wang Discovering User Preference from Folksonomy 2114 Xiaohui Guo, Richong Zhang, Jinpeng Huai, Hailong Sun, and Xudong Liu Self-Explanatory Convex Sparse Representation for Image Classification 2120 Bao-Di Liu, Yu-Xiong Wang, Bin Shen, Yu-Jin Zhang, Yan-Jiang Wang and Wei-Feng Liu Leveraging Human Fixations in Sparse Coding: Learning a Discriminative Dictionary for Saliency Prediction 2126 Ming Jiang, Mingli Song, and Qi Zhao Orthogonal Nonnegative Locally Linear Embedding 2134 Lei Weit, Naiyang Guan, Xiang Zhang, Zhigang Luo, and Dacheng Tao Medical Image and Signal Processing - S22-02 Comparison of Form in Potential Functions While Maintaining Upright Postures during Exposure to Stereoscopic Video Clips 2140 Hiroki Takada and Yasuyuki Matsuura Fuzzified Neural Network Based Human Physical Condition Monitoring Using MEMS Based Monitoring Devices 2146 Manabu Nii, Yoshihiro Kakiuchi, Toshinobu Hayashi, Kazunobu Takahama and Takayuki Yumoto A Study of Bone Thickness Measurement by Using Infrared Sensor for Pedicle Screw Insertion 2152 Muhamad Khairul Ali Hassan, Kouki Nagamune, Kenichiro Kakutani Koichiro Maeno, Kotaro Nishida, and Masahiro Kurosaka A Mechanical Analysis of Lachman Test Using a Quantitative Measurement System with Force Sensor 2157 Shogo Kawaguchi, Kouki Nagamune, Yuichiro Nishizawa, Shinya Oka Daisuke Araki, Yuichi Hoshino, Takehiko Matsushita, Ryosuke Kuroda and Masahiro Kurosaka Locally Sparsified Compressive Sensing for Improved MR Image Quality 2163 Fuleah A. Razzaq, Shady Mohamed, Asim Bhatti, and Saeid Nahavandi 
xxxvi 


Non-invasive Method of Characterization of Fibrosis and Carcinoma Using Low-Dose Lung CT Images 2168 Lakshmi Devan, Roy Santhosham, and Ranganathan Hariharan Meta-synthesis and Complex Systems - S09-01 Hall for Workshop of Meta-synthetic Engineering for Complex Product Design 2173 Jian Zhou, Fu Xiao, and Yaoqin Zhu Knowledge Creation Systems for Regional Revitalization 2178 Yoshiteru Nakamori A Meta-system for Conflict Resolution 2184 Cathal M. Brugha Applying Search Words and BBS Posts to Societal Risk Perception and Harmonious Society Measurement 2191 Xijin Tang The Evolution and Application of Network Analysis Methods 2197 Tian Ruya, Ma Ning, Li Qianqian, and Liu Yijun Benefit Compensation of Construction Diversion in Upstream Flood Discharge Control Based on Improved Shapley Method 2202 Lian Liu and Lixiang Sun Modeling and Automatic Control in Biomedical Systems S14-01 Iterative Learning Cascade Control of Continuous Noninvasive Blood Pressure Measurement 2207 Thomas Seel, Thomas Schauer, Sarah Weber, and Klaus Affeld Robust Control of Intracranial Pressure with an Electromechanical Extra-ventricular Drainage 2213 Inga M. Elixmann, Christine Goffin, Marian Walter, Klaus Radermacher Steffen Leonhardt, and Berno J.E. Misgeld Formulation and Simulation of a 3D Mechanical Model of Embryos for Microinjection 2219 Marzieh Asgari, Hamid Abdi, Chee Peng Lim, and Saeid Nahavandi Online Process Identification of Hypnosis 2225 H. Wolf, A. Sievert, W. Drewelow, T. Jeinsch, M. Janda, J. Bajorat, and O. Simanski Closed-Loop Ventilation of Oxygenation and End-Tidal CO2 2231 Anake Pomprapa, Berno Misgeld, Burkhard Lachmann, Marian Walter and Steffen Leonhardt 
xxxvii 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-13 Univariate Modelling of Electricity Consumption in South Africa: Neural Networks and Neuro-fuzzy Systems 2238 Lufuno Marwala and Bhekisipho Twala Collecting Random Samples from Facebook: An Efficient Heuristic for Sampling Large and Undirected Graphs via a Metropolis-Hastings Random Walk 2244 C.A. Pina-GarcÌa and Dongbing Gu Incremental Determinization and Minimization of Finite Acyclic Automata 2250 Gianfranco Lamperti and Michele Scandale Automated Planning with Adapted Enforced Hill Climbing 2258 Raulcezar M.F. Alves and Carlos R. Lopes On Solving Complex Optimization Problems with Objective Decomposition 2264 Yiu-ming Cheung and Fangqing Gu An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Erasable Itemsets Using the Difference of NC-Sets 2270 Tuong Le, Bay Vo, and Frans Coenen SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-14 Efficient Texture Classification Using Short-Time Fourier Transform with Spatial Pyramid Matching 2275 Hassan Dawood, Hussain Dawood, and Ping Guo Consensus Clustering Based on Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm 2280 Ahmed. A.A. Esmin and Rodrigo A. Coelho Foreground Detection Utilizing Structured Sparse Model via l1,2 Mixed Norms 2286 Zhangjian Ji, Weiqiang Wang, and Ke Lv A Novel Scheme for Term Weighting in Text Categorization: Positive Impact Factor 2292 M. Emmanuel, Saurabh M. Khatri, and D.R. Ramesh Babu Swarm Reinforcement Learning Method for a Multi-robot Formation Problem 2298 Hitoshi Iima and Yasuaki Kuroe SMC: Human-Machine - HM-07 Robot That Can Promote Learning by Observing in Collaborative Learning 2304 Felix Jimenez and Masayoshi Kanoh An Experiment on the Effectiveness of Remote, Robotic Inspection Compared to Manned 2310 yvind Netland, Gunnar Jenssen, Hilde Marie Schade, and Amund Skavhaug 
xxxviii 


Smartphone-Based Human Machine Interface with Application to Remote Control of Robot Arm 2316 Carlos Parga, Xiaoou Li, and Wen Yu An Optimal State Dependent Haptic Guidance Controller via a Hard Rein 2322 Anuradha Ranasinghe, Kaspar Althoefer, Thrishantha Nanayakkara Jacques Penders, and Prokar Dasgupta A Taxonomy of Robot Deception and Its Benefits in HRI 2328 Jaeeun Shim and Ronald C. Arkin Developmental Human-Robot Imitation Learning of Drawing with a Neuro Dynamical System 2336 Keita Mochizuki, Shun Nishide, Hiroshi G. Okuno, and Tetsuya Ogata SMC: Systems Science - SYS-13 Specification and Model-Based Diagnosis of Higher-Order Discrete-Event Systems 2342 Gianfranco Lamperti and Xiangfu Zhao Marking Observer of Labeled Petri Nets with Uncertainty in the Initial Marking 2348 Maria Paola Cabasino, Carla Seatzu, and Christoforos N. Hadjicostis The Effects of Temperature Variation on Data Center IT Systems 2354 Rafael Souza, Gustavo Callou, Kadna Camboin, Jo„o Ferreira, and Paulo Maciel Automated Generalized Petri Net Reduction Using an Evolutionary Approach Applied to a Manufacturing System Model 2360 Andre Bevilaqua, Edilson R.R. Kato, Emerson C. Pedrino, and Roberto H. Tsunaki Computationally Improved Optimal Deadlock Prevention Policy for Linear Programming Problems of Flexible Manufacturing Systems 2366 Yen-Liang Pan, Mu-Der Jenga, Sheng-Luen Chungb, and Yu-Xin Guoa An Evolutionary Approach for Fuzzy Knowledge Learning 2372 Christian Onassis S·nchez Barreto and Xiaoou Li SMC: Systems Science - SYS-14 Sonar-Based Detection and Tracking of a Diver for Underwater Human-Robot Interaction Scenarios 2378 Kevin J. DeMarco, Michael E. West, and Ayanna M. Howard Cooperative Exploration Using Potential Games 2384 George Philip, Howard M. Schwartz, Sidney N. Givigi, and Jr Semi-direct Teaching Method for Grasping Objects in Service Mobile Robot Systems - Teaching Data Generation 2390 Jorge David, Figueroa Heredia, and Ota Jun 
xxxix 


Evaluating 3D Polygon Maps for Mobile Robot Localisation 2396 Simon Thompson and Satoshi Kagami Tight Dynamic Movement Primitives for Complex Trajectory Generation 2402 Yosef Cohen and Sigal Berman Real-Time Robust Tracking with Commodity RGBD Camera 2408 Abdenour Amamra and Nabil Aouf Conflict Resolution - S16-03 Modeling the Continual Interactions by Repeated Games of Two Agents 2414 Yuankan Huang and Takehiro Inohara An Ontology-Based Computational Framework for Analyzing Public Opinion Framing in News Media 2420 Fernando Corrales Barboza, Hayeong Jeong, Kiyoshi Kobayashi and Shun Shiramatsu A Hierarchical Approach to Study Water Diversion Conflicts in China 2427 Shawei He, Keith W. Hipel, and D. Marc Kilgour Inverse Approach in Third Party Intervention 2433 Rami A. Kinsara, Keith W. Hipel, and D. Marc Kilgour A Game Theoretic Framework for Subcontractors Partnering in Resource Management 2437 Sadegh Asgari, Abbas Afshar, and Kaveh Madani Formal Strategic Analysis of the Conflict over Syria 2442 Majid Sheikhmohammady, Hadi Bitalebi, Adel Moatti, and Keith W. Hipel Hybrid Metaheuristics - C03-01 Heuristic Analysis Influence on the Solution of the Vehicle Routing Problem by Means of an Iterated Local Search 2448 Alberto Gomez, Paolo Priore, Jose Lopez, and Nazario Garcia Hybrid Imperialist Competitive Algorithm with Simplex Approach: Application to Electric Motor Design 2454 Julien Lepagnot, Lhassane Idoumghar, and Daniel Fodorean A Multi-objective Approach for Assignment Containers to AIVs in a Container Terminal 2460 Radhia Zaghdoud, Simon Collart-Dutilleul, Khaled Ghedira, Khaled Mesghouni and Kamel Zidi 
xl 


A Parallel Hybrid Genetic Algorithm on Cloud Computing for the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows 2467 AndrÈ Siqueira Ruela, Frederico Gadelha Guimar„es Ricardo Augusto Rabelo Oliveira, Brayan Neves, Vicente Peixoto Amorim and Larissa Maiara Fraga A Hybrid Technique Using Multi-objective Particle Swarm Optimization and Random Forests for PROBE Attacks Detection in a Network 2473 Arif Jamal Malik and Farrukh Aslam Khan Innovative Technologies and Applications in Computer Intelligence - C04-02 Strategy Selection by Reinforcement Learning for Multi-car Elevator Systems 2479 Masaki Ikuta, Kenichi Takahashi, and Michimasa Inaba Deep Belief Network for Modeling Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Policies 2485 Predrag D. Djurdjevic and Manfred Huber Artificial Neural Network Analysis of Twin Tunnelling-Induced Ground Settlements 2492 Seyed Amin Khatami, Alireza Mirhabibi, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi A New Approach Based on Support Vector Machine for Solving Stochastic Optimization 2498 Seyed Amin Khatami, Abbas Khosravi, and Saeid Nahavandi Neuroevolution by Particle Swarm Optimization with Adaptive Input Selection for Controlling Platform-Game Agent 2504 Akira Hara, Jun-ichi Kushida, Koji Kitao, and Tetsuyuki Takahama Profiling Student Learning Styles with Multilayer Perceptron Neural Networks 2510 Annabel Latham, Keeley Crockett, and David Mclean Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-01 Design of Data-Oriented GMDH-Based Controller 2516 S. Wakitani, G. Martins, and T. Yamamoto Integrated Modeling for Intelligent Battery Thermal Management 2522 Zhen Liu and Han-Xiong Li Embedded Design of an Emotion-Aware Music Player 2528 Carlos A. Cervantes and Kai-Tai Song Direct Adaptive Fuzzy-Wavelet-Neural-Network Control for Electric Two-Wheeled Robotic Vehicles 2534 Ching-Chih Tsai and Ching-Chih Tsai 
xli 


Model-Based Indirect Learning Method Based on Dyna-Q Architecture 2540 Kao-Shing Hwang, Wei-Cheng Jiang, Yu-Jen Chen, and Wei-Han Wang A System-Level Approach for Model-Based Verification of Distributed Software Systems 2545 Seyedehmehrnaz Mireslami and Behrouz H. Far Medical Image and Signal Processing - S22-03 Right Ventricle Segmentation by Temporal Information Constrained Gradient Vector Flow 2551 Xulei Yang, Si Yong Yeo, Yi Su, Calvin Lim, Min Wan, Liang Zhong and Ru San Tan An Early Development of Force Distribution Sensor Using Pressure-Sensitive Conductive Rubber for Soft Tissue Balance in Total Knee Arthroplasty 2556 Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune, Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masahiro Kurosaka An Evaluation Method of Force Concentration in PS Type of Total Knee Arthroplasty with Force Distribution Measurement System 2561 Takashi Kamiya, Shogo Kawaguchi, Mohd Hanafi Mat Som, Kouki Nagamune Tomoyuki Matsumoto, Ryosuke Kuroda, and Masaliiro Kurosaka An Improved Binarisation Algorithm for Nailfold Capillary Skeleton Extraction 2565 Niraj P. Doshi, Gerald Schaefer, and Shao Ying Zhu Production of the Grounds for Melanoma Classification Using Adaptive Fuzzy Inference Neural Network 2570 Yuji Ikuma and Hitoshi lyatomi Approaches to General Purpose GPU Acceleration of Digital Signal Processing in Optical Coherence Tomography Systems 2576 K.I. Kapinchev, F.R.M. Barnes, A. Bradu, and A.Gh. Podoleanu Smart Technologies for Civil Applications of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles - H11-01 Doing the Right Thing: Collision Avoidance for Autonomous Air Vehicles 2581 Chinmay Mishra, Mitul Mehta, Elias J. Griffith, and Jason F. Ralph Equivalence of BRISK Descriptors for the Registration of Variable Bit-Depth Aerial Imagery 2587 Elias J. Griffith, Yuan Chi, Michael Jump, and Jason F. Ralph Invariant Observer Design of a RGB-D Aided Inertial System for MAV in GPS-Denied Environments 2593 Dachuan Li, Qing Li, Nong Cheng, Jingyan Song, Qinfan Wu, and Liangwen Tang 
xlii 


Safer Flying Using an Immune-Inspired Adaptive Health Monitoring System 2600 Maizura Mokhtar and Joe Howe Scheduling UAV Surveillance Tasks, Lessons Learned from Trials with Users 2606 Jeremy Baxter, Scott Findlay, Martin Paxton, Andrew Berry, and Jon Platts QinetiQ SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-15 Gastric Lymph Node Cancer Detection of Multiple Features Classifier for Pathology Diagnosis Support System 2611 Takumi Ishikawa, Junko Takahashi, Hiroshi Takemura, Hiroshi Mizoguchi and Takeshi Kuwata Modelling Prey in Discrete Time Predator-Prey Systems 2617 Rory Mullan, David H. Glass, and Mark McCartney A Measuring and Analysis Method of Coupled Range of Motion of the Human Hands 2623 Natsuki Miyata, Yuki Shimizu, and Yusuke Maeda Multi-objective Optimization Using Pareto GA for Gene-Selection from Microarray Data for Disease Classification 2629 Goutam Chakraborty and Basabi Chakraborty Grasp Database That Covers Variation of Contact Region Usage 2635 Natsuki Miyata, Takayoshi Hironom, and Yusuke Maeda An Empirical Investigation of Virtual Screening 2641 Amir Ali Rafati-Afshar and Abdelhamid Bouchachia SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-16 Transition Learning between Balanced Ensemble Learning and Negative Correlation Learning 2647 Yong Liu, Qiangfu Zhao, and Neil Yen Profit Sharing That Can Learn Deterministic Policy for POMDPs Environments by Kohonen Feature Map Associative Memory 2651 Daichi Koma and Yuko Osana Using Genetic Algorithm to Improve Classification Accuracy on Imbalanced Data 2659 Jair Cervantes, Xiaoou Li, and Wen Yu An Anomaly Analysis Method Based on Morphological Features 2665 Xiangzeng Kong, Yaxin Bi, and David H. Glass Learning Multi-level Local Phase Relationship for Single Image Resolution Enhancement 2671 Saibabu Arigela, Vijayan K. Asari, and Maher B. Qumsiyeh 
xliii 


Feature Selection by Iterative Block Addition and Block Deletion 2677 Shigeo Abe SMC: Human-Machine - HM-08 Development of Humanoid Robot Simulator for Gait Learning by Using Particle Swarm Optimization 2683 Ping-Huan Kuo, Ya-Fang Ho, Kai-Fan Lee, Li-Heng Tai, and Tzuu-Hseng S. Li Multi-view Facial Expression Recognition Using Parametric Kernel Eigenspace Method Based on Class Features 2689 Woo-han Yun, Dohyung Kim, Chankyu Park, and Jaehong Kim Automatic Realtime User Performance-Driven Avatar Animation 2694 Stephanie Behrens, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, Eicke Redweik, and Robert Niese Advanced Human Affect Visualization 2700 Isabelle Hupont, Sandra Baldassarri, Eva Cerezo, and Rafael Del-Hoyo Gestic-Based Human Machine Interface for Robot Control 2706 Michael Tornow, Ayoub Al-Hamadi, and Vinzenz Borrmann Human Control of Leader-Based Swarms 2712 Phillip Walker, Saman Amirpour Amraii, Michael Lewis, Nilanjan Chakraborty and Katia Sycara SMC: Systems Science - SYS-15 A Game-Theoretic Social Model for Multiagent Systems 2718 Wynn C. Stirling A Distributed and Automatic Negotiation Protocol for Resource Allocation in the Management of Traffic Accidents 2724 M. Prades Farron, Luis A. Garcia, Vicente R. Tomas, and M. Capdevila Applicability of Bio-inspired and Graph-Theoretic Algorithms for the Design of Complex Fault-Tolerant Graphs 2730 Matthias Becker, Florian Schmidt, and Helena Szczerbicka Analysis of Fuzzy Agents Interactions and Fuzzy Agents Roles within a Collaborative Design Platform 2735 Alain-JÈrÙme FougÈres and Egon Ostrosi Requester vs. Helper-Initiated Protocols for Mutual Assistance in Agent Teamwork 2741 Narek Nalbandyan, Jernej Polajnar, Denish Mumbaiwala, Desanka Polajnar and Omid Alemi 
xliv 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-16 Energetically Optimal Gait Transition Velocities of a Quadruped Robot 2747 Iris Shmue and Raziel Riemer Cluster Synchronization of Predator Prey Robots 2753 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Matrix Transfer Protocol a Unified Communication Framework for Distributed Modules in Cognitive Robotics 2759 Gerd-J¸rgen Giefing INHA: Localization of Mobile Robots Based on Feature Matching with a Single Camera 2765 Jaehong Lee, Xuenan Cui, Seungjun Lee, Hakil Kim, and Hyoungrae Kim A Tabletop Objects Observation Method from Mobile Robot Using Kinect Sensor 2771 Takuro Egawa, Ippei Samejima, Yuma Nihei, Satoshi Kagami and Hiroshi Mizoguchi Path Planning for Mobile Robots Based on Improved Ant Colony Optimization 2777 Chen-Chien Hsu, Ru-Yu Hou, and Wei-Yen Wang Collaborative Manufacturing and Supply Chains - H15-01 A Review of Complex Systems Technologies for Supply Chain Risk Management 2783 LI Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Yee Qi Ming Gabriel, Nguyen Quoc Chinh Ong Yew Soon, and Chen Xianshun A Novel Two-Level Genetic Algorithm for Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2790 Liang Wan, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Wenwen Wang Application of Interval Theory and Genetic Algorithm for Uncertain Integrated Process Planning and Scheduling 2796 Wenwen Wang, Xinyu Li, Liang Gao, Xiaoyu Wen, and Liang Wan Integrated Iterated Local Search for the Permutation Flowshop Problem with Tardiness Minimization 2802 Tian Chen and Xiaoping Li Shuffled Frog Leaping Algorithm for a Bi-objective No-Idle Permutation Flow Shop 2808 Yamin Wang and Xiaoping Li MapReduce Based Method for Big Data Semantic Clustering 2814 Jie Yang and Xiaoping Li 
xlv 


Learning-Assisted Intelligent Scheduling System 2820 Ana Madureira, Jo„o Paulo Pereira, and Ivo Pereira Iterative Combinatorial Auction for Carrier Collaboration in Logistics Services 2826 Hamidreza Mehrizi and Chun Wang Computational Awareness - H04-01 Induction of High Performance Neural Networks Based on Decision Boundary Making 2831 Yuya Kaneda, Qiangfu Zhao, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Feature Point Detection in Image Morphing Based Steganography 2837 Qiangfu Zhao, Yutaro Minakawa, Yong Liu, and Neil Y. Yen Computational Awareness in a Tactile-Responsive Humanoid Robot Comedian 2843 Paul Kaefer, Kevin Germino, Dustin Venske, and Andrew B. Williams A Change Detection Method of Arguing Points by Factor Analysis for Case Method Support 2849 Masaki Samejima and Keiichi Hamada Facebook Watchdog: A Research Agenda for Detecting Online Grooming and Bullying Activities 2854 Marlies Rybnicek, Rainer Poisel, and Simon Tjoa Agent-Based Simulation for Investigating Signaling Effects in Markets with Asymmetric Information 2860 Tadahiko Murata and Du Nisuo Explore New Eye Tracking and Gaze Locating Methods 2866 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, Joe Eyles, and Honghai Liu Computational Intelligence for Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing - C08-01 An Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based System for Customised Knowledge Delivery within Pervasive E-Learning Platforms 2872 Khalid Almohammadi and Hani Hagras A Big Bang-Big Crunch Optimization for a Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Based Human Behaviour Recognition System in Intelligent Environments 2880 Bo Yao, Hani Hagras, Daniyal Alghazzawi, and Mohammed J. Alhaddad A Computing with Words Framework for Ambient Intelligence 2887 Aysenur Bilgin, Hani Hagras, Areej Malibari, Daniyal Alghazzawi and J. Mohammed 
xlvi 


Social Feedback in Display Ecosystems 2893 Bernhard Anzengruber, Gabriella Castelli, Alberto Rosi, Alois Ferscha and Franco Zambonelli Improved Semantic-Based Human Interaction Understanding Using Context-Based Knowledge 2899 Kamrad Khoshhal Roudposhti and Jorge Dias A Brief Introduction to Classification for Smart Grid 2905 Chun-Wei Tsai, Alexander Pelov, Ming-Chao Chiang, Chu-Sing Yang and Tzung-Pei Hong Recognizing Human Actions by a Bag of Visual Words 2910 Pasquale Foggia, Gennaro Percannella, Alessia Saggese, and Mario Vento A Novel Two-Layer Hierarchical Differential Evolution Algorithm for Global Optimization 2916 Yinzhi Zhou, Xinyu Li, and Liang Gao Innovations in Intelligent Computation and Applications C15-01 Facial Skin Beautification Using Region-Aware Mask 2922 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Conversation System Based on Computational Intelligence for Robot Partner Using Smart Phone 2927 Jinseok Woo and Naoyuki Kubota Mining Sequential Purchasing Behaviors from Customer Transaction Databases 2933 Show-Jane Yen, Jia-Yuan Gu, and Yue-Shi Lee Student Engagement Modeling Using Bayesian Networks 2939 Choo-Yee Ting, Wei-Nam Cheah, and Chiung Ching Ho Uniform Cellular Automata Linear Rules for Edge Detection 2945 Selman Uguz, Ugur Sahin, and Ferat Sahin Intelligent Network Computing and Applications - C07-01 Dealing with Unfair Ratings 2951 Xinfeng Ye Network Information Flow Control: Proof of Concept 2957 Alwaleed Alghothami and Florian Kammuller Homogeneity Based Blind Noisy Image Quality Assessment 2963 Xiaotong Huang, Li Chen, Jing Tian, Xiaolong Zhang, and Xiaowei Fu 
xlvii 


Performance Evaluation of Self-Configured Two-Tier Heterogeneous Cellular Networks 2968 Nien-Tsu Chou, Shih-Hao Lin, Shin-Ming Cheng, and Shih-Hao Chang Metasynthesis and Complex Systems - S09-02 A Computational Study for Feature Selection on Customer Credit Evaluation 2973 Jun Huang, Haibo Wang, Wei Wang, and Zhibin Xiong Distribution of Node Characteristics in Transfractal Network Systems and Additive Scale Invariance 2979 Ying Tan, Hong Luo, and Shou-Li Peng The Decision of Price Risk of Portfolio in Inventory Financing 2985 Juan He, Jian Wang, and Xianglin Jiang A Consensus Model for Multiple Attribute Group Decision Making Problems Based on Interval Fuzzy Number 2991 Zhiying LV, Tianmin Huang, Liwei Zheng, and Ying Liang SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-17 Topology Preserving Feature Extraction with Multiswarm Optimization 2997 Thomas A. Runkler and James C. Bezdek Sparse Logistic Discriminant Analysis 3003 Takio Kurita, Kenji Watanabe, and Akinori Hidaka Discriminant Multi-component Face Analysis 3009 Hongli Liu, Weifeng Liu, Liping Dong, and Yanjiang Wang A Hidden Markov Model with Abnormal States for Detecting Stock Price Manipulation 3014 Yi Cao, Yuhua Li, Sonya Coleman, Ammar Belatreche, and T.M. McGinnity Novelty Detection Using Level Set Methods with Adaptive Boundaries 3020 Xuemei Ding, Yuhua Li, Ammar Belatreche, and Liam P. Maguire Automatic Crack Detection and Segmentation Using a Hybrid Algorithm for Road Distress Analysis 3026 Jinshan Tang and Yanliang Gu A Robust Two Signature Descriptor with Orientation Bins and Colour Codes for Enhanced Feature Matching 3031 Saad Ali Imran and Nabil Aouf Structured Sparse Representation Visual Tracking Using Bayes Classifier 3036 Weiguang Li, Yueen Hou, Aiqiong Rong, Sibo Quan, Huidong Lou and Aihua Huang 
xlviii 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-18 Some Consequences of the Linear Approximation of the Stochastic Context-Free Calculus 3042 Marco Carpentier On Identifying Authors with Style 3048 Lauren M. Stuart, Saltanat Tazhibayeva, Amy R. Wagoner, and Julia M. Taylor Pairwise Learning to Rank for Search Query Correction 3054 Antonin Novak and Jan Sedivy A Hash Table Approach for Large Scale Perceptual Anchoring 3060 Andreas Persson and Amy Loutfi Clause Anaphora Resolution for Japanese Demonstrative Determiner Based on Semantic Similarity between Different Part-of-Speech 3067 Yukino Ikegami, Ernesto Damiani, Akihiro Urano, and Setsuo Tsuruta Path Model Integration Method for Structural Equation Modeling by OR and Probability Concepts 3073 Rikuto Kunimoto and Ryosuke Saga Recognising User Identity in Twitter Social Networks via Text Mining 3079 Sara Keretna, Ahmad Hossny, and Doug Creighton SMC: Human-Machine - HM-09 Operability Improvement for Myoelectric Prosthetic Hand Using Brain Machine Interface Identification of Eight Forearm Motions Based on Myoelectric Potential 3083 Kana Kuniyasu and Jun Ishikawa Towards the Classification of Single-Trial Event-Related Potentials Using Adapted Wavelets and Particle Swarm Optimization 3089 Alejandro Gonzalez, Isao Nambu, Haruhide Hokari, Masahiro Iwahashi and Yasuhiro Wada Development of a System for Analyzing Common Laceration Generation Mechanisms 3095 Hideyuki Myouse, Tachio Takano, Koji Kitamura, Yoshinori Koizumi Yoshifumi Nishida, and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Hand Grasped Object Segmentation Method Using Kinect Sensor and Body Dimension Database 3102 Naruyuki Hisatsuka, Ippei Samejima, Satoshi Kagami, Makiko Kouchi and Hiroshi Takemura 
xlvix 


On Modeling Human Learning in Sequential Games with Delayed Reinforcements 3108 Roi Ceren, Prashant Doshi, Matthew Meisel, Adam Goodie, and Dan Hall Analysis of Human Attention toward Context-related Images for Understanding Visual Information Processing 3114 Joo Yun Han, Yu-Bu Lee, and Sukhan Lee Ship Detection and Segmentation Using Image Correlation 3119 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Hand Movement Trajectory Reconstruction from EEG for Brain-Computer Interface Systems 3127 Neethu Robinson, A.P. Vinod, and Cuntai Guan SMC: Systems Science - SYS-17 Model Selection with BIC and ICL Criteria for Binned Data Clustering by Bin-EM-CEM Algorithms 3133 Hani Hamdan and Jingwen Wu Vehicle Detection from UAVs by Using SIFT with Implicit Shape Model 3139 Xiyan Chen and Qinggang Meng Short-Term Anxiety Recognition Induced by Virtual Reality Exposure for Phobic People 3145 Wahida Handouzi, Choubeila Maaoui, Alain Pruski, Abdelhak Moussaoui and Yamina Bendiouis Dataset Shift Detection in Non-stationary Environments Using EWMA Charts 3151 Haider Raza, Girijesh Prasad, and Yuhua Li Intensity Rank Estimation of Facial Expressions Based on a Single Image 3157 Kuang-Yu Chang, Chu-Song Chen, and Yi-Ping Hung Integration of Online Laboratories - LMS via SCORM 3163 Ildefonso Ruano-Ruano, Juan GÛmez-Ortega, Javier G·mez-GarcÌa and Elisabet Estevez-EstÈvez Motor Inverter Fault Diagnosis Using Wavelets Neural Networks 3168 Sheng Qiang and Yingying Li Online Optimal DLQR-DFIG Control System Design via Recursive Least-Square Approach and State Heuristic Dynamic Programming for Approximate Solution of the HJB Equation 3174 Jo„o Viana da Fonseca Neto, Ernesto F.M. Ferreira, and Patricia H. Moraes Rego 
l 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-18 Unsupervised Adaptive Non-intrusive Load Monitoring System 3180 Po-An Chou and Ray-I Chang Learning Customer Behaviour under Real-Time Pricing in the Smart Grid 3186 Fan-Lin Meng, Xiao-Jun Zeng, and Qian Ma Bayesian Model Averaging of Load Demand Forecasts from Neural Network Models 3192 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar A Energy-Preserving Model for Wireless Sensors Networks Based on Heuristic Self-Organized Routing 3198 Aurelio La Corte, Alessandro Di Stefano, Marialisa Scat·, and Marco Leotta Design and Application of Smart Metering System for Micro Grid 3203 Ringo P.K. Lee, Loi Lei Lai, and Chun Sing Lai Discrete Time Modeling and Control of DC/DC Switching Converter for Solar Energy Systems 3208 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Variance-Covariance Based Weighing for Neural Network Ensembles 3214 Saima Hassan, Abbas Khosravi, and Jafreezal Jaafar Novel Dynamic Control of Power Systems with Penetration of Renewable Energy Sources in Multi-generator Framework 3220 S. Kazemlou and S. Mehraeen Intelligent Learning in Control Systems - S02-02 A Type-2 Fuzzy Cascade Control Architecture for Mobile Robots 3226 Tufan Kumbasar and Hani Hagras Adaptive Control System Based on Self-Organizing Wavelet Neural Network with H8 Tracking Performance Compensator 3232 Masanao Obayashi, Takuya Kamikariya, Shogo Uchiyama, Shogo Watada Takashi Kuremoto, Shingo Mabu, and Kunikazu Kobayashi Estimators Based on Non-squares Loss Functions to Approximate HJB-Riccati Equation Solution for DLQR Design via HDP 3238 Jonathan A. Queiroz, PatrÌcia H.M. Rego, Jo„o V.F. Neto, Cristiane da Silva Ewaldo Santana, and Allan Kardec Barros 
li 


Issues in EHR Representation, Integration, and Analysis S18-01 An Ontology for Clinical Trial Data Integration 3244 Ratnesh Sahay, Dimitrios Ntalaperas, Eleni Kamateri, Panagiotis Hasapis Oya Deniz Beyan, Marie-Pierre F. Strippoli, Christiana A. Demetriou Thomai Gklarou-Stavropoulou, Matthias Brochhausen Konstantinos Tarabanis, Thanassis Bouras, David Tian, Aristos Aristodimoux Athos Antoniadesx, Christos Georgousopoulos, Manfred Hauswirth and Stefan Decker Advancing Patient Record Safety and EHR Semantic Interoperability 3251 Konstantinos Perakis, Thanasis Bouras, Dimitris Ntalaperas Panagiotis Hasapis, Christos Georgousopoulos, Ratnesh Sahay Oya Deniz Beyan, Cristi Potlog, and Daniela Usurelu A Bayesian Association Rule Mining Algorithm 3258 David Tian, Ann Gledson, Athos Antoniades, Aristo Aristodimou Ntalaperas Dimitrios, Ratnesh Sahay, Jianxin Pan, Stavros Stivaros Goran Nenadic, Xiao-jun Zeng, and John Keane Understanding Low Back Pain Using Fuzzy Association Rule Mining 3265 Maybin K. Muyeba, Sandra Lewis, Liangxiu Han, and John A. Keane Perception: Part B - Perceptual Factors in Graphics - H08-01 Perceptual Quality Metrics for 3D Meshes: Towards an Optimal Multi-attribute Computational Model 3271 Guillaume LavouÈ, Irene Cheng, and Anup Basu Evaluation of 3D Model Segmentation Techniques Based on Animal Anatomy 3277 Nasim Hajari, Irene Cheng, Anup Basu, and Guillaume Lavou Keynote D Cybernetic Intelligent Systems - S19-01 Gender Classification Using One Half Face and Feature Selection Based on Mutual Information 3282 Juan E. Tapia and Claudio A. Perez User Modelling for Interactive Optimization Using Neural Network 3288 Vidya Bhushan Singh, Snehasis Mukhopadhyay, and Meghna Babbar-Sebens Software Programmed by Artificial Agents toward an Autonomous Development Process for Code Generation 3294 Carlos C. Insaurralde 
lii 


Pattern Detection Using a New Haralick Quaternion Color Extraction Model and Support Vector Machine Classifier 3300 Claudio A. Perez, Carlos F. Navarro, Daniel A. Schulz, Jacob A. Saravia and Carlos M. Aravena An Approach to the Synthesis of Humanoid Robot Dance Using Non-interactive Evolutionary Techniques 3305 Malachy Eaton Visual Servoing of a Quadrotor UAV for the Tracking of Linear Structured Infrastructures 3310 O. Araar and N. Aouf Acoustic Detection and Localization Enhanced by Video Analysis 3316 Riad Azzam and Nabil Aouf Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-01 Study of Induction and Estimation Method for Driver's Intention by Using a Driving Simulator 3322 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Zhong Zhang, and Tetsuo Miyake A Personalised Online Travel Time Prediction Model 3327 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Availability of a Ship Propulsion System under Aging Effects 3333 Nobuo Mitomom, Tadatsugi Okazaki, and Tunc Aldemir Questionnaire Survey for Adapting Common Performance Conditions to Marine Accidents 3339 Kenji Yoshimura, Chihiro Nishizaki, Han Chuanfeng, Han Chuanfeng and Han Chuanfeng Research on the Implementation of Port State Control Based on Broad Sense Concept in the Integrated Management of Foreign Vessel 3344 Junjie Fu and Chi Zhou A Study on Evaluation of Safe Driving Using an In-Vehicle Data Camera 3348 Ryo Ishizaki and Masakazu Morimoto Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-01 Myoelectric Controlled Prosthetic Hand with Continuous Force-Feedback Mechanism 3354 Nanao Akimichi, Kiyoshi Eguchi, and Kenji Suzuki Classifier Transferability in the Detection of Error Related Potentials from Observation to Interaction 3360 Su Kyoung Kim and Elsa Andrea Kirchner 
liii 


Suitability of Two Models of Torque Feedback for Performing a Robot-Assisted Circular Tracing Task 3366 Fernando Trejo and Yaoping Hu Experimental Studies of a Novel 6-DOF Haptic Device 3372 Zhouming Tang and Shahram Payandeh Design and Evaluation of Partial Weight-Bearing Sensor and Haptic Feedback System for Lower-Extremity Orthopedic Patients 3378 Levi DeLuke, Ying \(Jean Richard E. Fan, and John B. Morrell Producing Method of Softness Sensation by Device Vibration 3384 Atsutoshi Ikeda, Takahiro Suzuki, Jun Takamatsu, and Tsukasa Ogasawara Personalising Live Sports Video Zooming 3390 Zhenchen Wang and Stefan Poslad Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-01 Ambulatory Brain-Computer Interface in Outdoor Environment toward Indexing of Lifelog 3396 Hideaki Touyama and Kazuya Maeda On Determination of Ophthalmic Examinations Using Support Vector Machines 3402 Naotake Kamiura, Naoto Yamada, Ayumu Saitoh, Teijiro Isokawa Nobuyuki Matsui, and Hitoshi Tabuchi Evaluation of Autonomy Walk by Dynamic Foot Pressure Analysis 3408 Takahiro Takeda, Yoshitada Sakai, and Yutaka Hata Adaptive Human-Robot Interaction Based on Lag-Lead Modelling for Home-Based Stroke Rehabilitation: Novel Mechanisms for Assessment and Performance Based Adaptation of Task Difficulty 3414 Angelo Basteris and Farshid Amirabdollahian Ultrasonic Frequency Response Analysis for Quantitative Measurements in Bone Marrow Stromal Cells 3420 Naomi Yagi, Kei Kuramoto, Syoji Kobashi, Yutaka Hata, and Tomomoto Ishikawa Mining Clinical Pathway Candidates from Order History Based on the Clustering of Order Sequences 3425 Shoji Hirano and Shusaku Tsumoto 
liv 


Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-01 Applying Gaming Principles to Virtual Environments for Upper Extremity Therapy Games 3430 Mason E. Nixon and Ayanna M. Howard Development of an Autonomous Facial-Expression Monitoring System for Safe Work Environments 3436 Masakazu Arima, Shotaro Kii, and Kousuke Murata Using Type-2 Fuzzy Models to Detect Fall Incidents and Abnormal Gaits among Elderly 3441 Yo-Ping Huang, Wei-Heng Liu, Szu-Ying Chen, and Frode Eika Sandnes A Computer Supported Memory Aid for Copying Prescription Parameters into Medical Equipment Based on Linguistic Phrases 3447 Frode Eika Sandnes and Yo-Ping Huang Depression Diagnosis Based on Ontologies and Bayesian Networks 3452 Yue-Shan Chang, Wan-Chun Hung, and Tong-Ying Juang Towards ROS Based Multi-robot Architecture for Ambient Assisted Living 3458 Ruijiao Li, Mohammadreza A. Oskoei, and Huosheng Hu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-19 SCGaz - A Synthetic Formal Context Generator with Density Control for Test and Evaluation of FCA Algorithms 3464 Andrei Rimsa, Mark A.J. Song, and Luis E. Z·rate An Intelligent Tutoring System for Case-Based E-Learning on Project Management 3471 Minami Otsuki and Masaki Samejima A Time-Series-Based Technology Intelligence Framework by Trend Prediction Functionality 3477 Hongshu Chen, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu A Fuzzy Tree Similarity Measure and Its Application in Telecom Product Recommendation 3483 Dianshuang Wu, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu Fuzzy Decision Support System for the Determination of the Set Points of Relevant Variables in the Virgin Olive Oil Elaboration Process 3489 P. Cano Marchal, D. MartÌnez Gila, J. G·mez Garcia, and J. GÛmez Ortega A Hierarchical Human Activity Recognition Framework Based on Automated Reasoning 3495 Shuwei Chen, Jun Liu, Hui Wang, and Juan Carlos Augusto 
lv 


Entity Conceptualization and Understanding Based on Web-Scale Knowledge Bases 3500 Yi Zeng, Hongwei Hao, and Bo Xu SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-20 Sequential Extraction by Using Two Types of Crisp Possibilistic Clustering 3505 Yukihiro Hamasuna and Yasunori Endo Comparative Evaluation of Batch and Online Distance Metric Learning Approaches Based on Margin Maximization 3511 Adri·n PÈrez-Suay, Francesc J. Ferri, Miguel Arevalillo-Herr·ez and Jes˙s V. Albert Gamification of the Optimization Problem and Multi-point Type Optimization Methods 3516 Takashi Okamoto and Eitaro Aiyoshi Quantum Annealing Algorithm for Vehicle Scheduling 3523 Alan Crispin and Alex Syrichas Chaotic Optimization Method without Initial Sampling Parameter Tuning Empirical Comparisons of Two Approaches in Various Problems 3529 Takashi Okamoto and Hironori Hirata Multi-objective Integrated Optimization Using Optimization, Modeling and Simulation 3537 Hirotaka Katayama, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda Combinatorial Optimization Method Based on Hierarchical Structure in Solution Space 3543 Hiroki Ochiai, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda SMC: Human-Machine - HM-10 Sensory Perception through an Electro-tactile Stimulus Array on the Tongue 3549 A. Jeffs and K. Warwick Extension Force Control Considering Contact with an Object Using a Wearable Robot for an Upper Limb 3555 Keishi Yonezawa, Naoto Mizutani, Norihiko Kato, Keníichi Yano, Takaakl Aoki Yasuyukl Kobayashi, and Yutaka Nishimoto Effect of Visual Cues on Line Drawing Performance 3561 Tetsuyou Watanabe Light-Emitting Device for Supporting Auditory Awareness of Hearing-Impaired People during Group Conversations 3567 Yoshihiro Kaneko, Inho Chung, and Kenji Suzuki 
lvi 


Fallen Person Detection for Mobile Robots Using 3D Depth Data 3573 Michael Volkhardt, Friederike Schneemann, and Horst-Michael Gross Muscle Synergy Analysis of Human Standing-Up Motion with Different Chair Heights and Different Motion Speeds 3579 Qi An, Yuki Ishikawa, Junki Nakagawa, Hiroyuki Oka, Hiroshi Yamakawa Atsushi Yamashita, and Hajime Asama Semantic Indoor Navigation with a Blind-User Oriented Augmented Reality 3585 Samleo L. Joseph, Xiaochen Zhang, Ivan Dryanovski, Jizhong Xiao, Chucai Yi and YingLi Tian SMC: Systems Science - SYS-19 Robust Discriminator between Bicycle Rider and Pusher Based on CHLAC of Leg Movement from Video Sequence 3592 Yuki Ishii, Hiroshi Hisahara, Masahito Ota, Takeki Ogitsu, Hiroshi Takemura and Hiroshi Mizoguchi A Train Load Planning Optimization Model for Intermodal Freight Transport Terminals: A Case Study 3597 Mariagrazia Dotolia, Nicola Epicocoa, Marco Falagariob, Domenico Palmaa and Biagio Turchianoa Parking Space Detection Using Textural Descriptors 3603 Paulo Almeida, Luiz S. Oliveira, Eunelson Silva Jr., Alceu Britto Jr and Alessandro Koerich Dynamic Management of Parking Spaces in Road Rest Areas with Automatic Negotiation 3609 M. Capdevila, Vicente R. Tomas, Luis A. Garca, and M. Prades Farron Tracking Multiple Moving Vehicles in Low Frame Rate Videos Based on Trajectory Information 3615 Giyoung Lee, Rammohan Mallipeddi, and Minho Lee Intelligent Traffic Light Control of Isolated Intersections Using Machine Learning Methods 3621 Sahar Araghi, Abbas Khosravi, Michael Johnstone, and Doug Creighton Visibility Enhancement of Single Hazy Images Using Hybrid Dark Channel Prior 3627 Yi-Jui Cheng, Bo-Hao Chen, Shih-Chia Huang, Sy-Yen Kuo, Andrey Kopylov Oleg Seredint, Leonid Mestetskiy, Boris Vishnyakov, Yury Vizilter Oleg Vygolov, Chia-Ruei Lian, and Chi-Ting Wu 
lvii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-20 Component-Based Modelling for Generating Robotic Arm Applications Running under OROCOS Middleware 3633 A. Sanchez Garcia, E. Estevez, J. Gomez Ortega, and J. Gamez Garcia Predictive Modeling of Time-Varying Environmental Information for Path Planning 3639 Woojin Kim, Hyeonbeom Lee, and H. Jin Kim Kelpie: A ROS-Based Multi-robot Simulator for Water Surface and Aerial Vehicles 3645 Ricardo MendonÁa, Pedro Santana, Francisco Marques, AndrÈ LourenÁo Jo„o Silva, and JosÈ Barata Improved Monte Carlo Localization with Robust Orientation Estimation for Mobile Robots 3651 Chen-Chien Hsu, Chia-Jui Kuo, and Wen-Chung Kao Visual Predictive Control of Robot Manipulators Using a 3D ToF Camera 3657 S. Satorres MartÌnez, J. GÛmez Ortega, J. G·mez GarcÌa, A. S·nchez GarcÌa and J. de la Casa C·rdenas Reducing the Computational Cost of a Monte Carlo Based Planning Algorithm 3663 Hao Wang and Simon J. Julier A Semantic-Similarity-Based Method for Object Description and Clustering 3669 Jing Xu, Shogo Okada, and Katsumi Nitta Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-01 A Subjective Force Perception Model of Humans and Its Application to a Steering Operation System of a Vehicle 3675 Kazuhiro Takemura, Naoki Yamada, Atsuhide Kishi, Kazuo Nishikawa Takahide Nouzawa, Chang Li, Yuichi Kurita, and Toshio Tsuji Driver Behaviour Analysis through Simulation 3681 Andreas Gregoriades, Christos Florides, Vicky Papadopoulou Lesta and Maria Pampaka Biomechanical and Psychophysical Evaluation of Operating Loads in Vehicular Driving 3687 Yoshiyuki Tanaka, Mitsuhiro Narusue, Hiroaki Matsubara, Toshio Tsuji Tomonori Ohtsubo, Hiroshi Okiyama, Matsuhiro Tanaka, and Shunichiro Miyawaki Driver Distraction Assessment Using Driver Modeling 3693 Peter Hermannst‰dter and Bin Yang 
lviii 


Experiment Design for Measuring Driver Reaction Time in Driving Situation 3699 Zhong Zhang, Yuki Asakawa, Takashi Imamura, and Tetsuo Miyake Modeling Driver Steering Control Based on Stochastic Model Predictive Control 3704 Ting Qu, Hong Chen, Yan Ji, Hongyan Guo, and Dongpu Cao Quantitative Driving Style Estimation for Energy-Oriented Applications in Road Vehicles 3710 Andrea Corti, Carlo Ongini, Mara Tanelli, and Sergio M. Savaresi Human-Machine Interface and Haptics - H02-02 Cepstrum Based Unsupervised Spike Classification 3716 Sherif Haggag, Shady Mohamed, Asim Bhatti, Nong Gu, Hailing Zhou and Saeid Nahavandi Fast Volumetric Reconstruction of Human Body through Superquadrics 3721 I. Infantino, F. Vella, G. Martino, and S. Gaglio A User Study with GUIs Tailored for Smartphones and Tablet PCs 3727 David Raneburger, Roman Popp, David Alonso-RÌos, Hermann Kaind and J¸rgen Falb Estimation Method of Clothes Size for Virtual Fitting Room with Kinect Sensor 3733 Reizo Nakamura, Masaki Izutsu, and Shosiro Hatakeyama Assessing Goal-Directed Three-Dimensional Movements in a Virtual Reality Block Design Task 3739 Wooram Jeon, Michael Clamann, David B. Kaber, and Nancy J. Currie Use of Foot for Direct Interactions with Entities of a Virtual Environment Displayed on a Mobile Device 3745 Bob-Antoine J. Menelas and Martin J-D. Otis An Investigation into Thumb Rotation Using High Density Surface Electromyography of Extrinsic Hand Muscles 3751 A. Aranceta-Garza, H. Lakany, and B.A. Conway Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-02 Evaluation of Arterial Stiffness during the Flow-Mediated Dilation Test 3756 Harutoyo Hirano, Daisuke Kiharat, Hiroki Hirano, Yuichi Kurita, Teiji Ukawa Tsuneo Takayanagi, Haruka Morimoto, Ryuji Nakamura, Noboru Saeki Yukihito Higashi, Masashi Kawamoto, Masao Yoshizumi, and Toshio Tsuji An Ultrasonic Imaging for Seminiferous Tubules Beyond the Wavelength Limit 3760 Koki Tsukuda, Tomomoto Ishikawa, and Yutaka Hata 
lvix 


Mobile Patient Monitoring for the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Work Domain Analysis and Rapid Prototyping Results 3765 Matthias Geˆrges, Catherine M. Burns, Plinio P. Morita, and J. Mark Ansermino Fabrication of Reflectance Pulse Oximeter with Ring-Shaped Photodiode 3771 Masahide Kano, Yota Sato, Kensuke Kanda, Takayuki Fujita Kazusuke Maenaka, Kazuo Kasai, and Kohei Higuchi Toward Personalized Cognitive Training for Elderly with Mild Cognitive Impairment: Cerebral Blood Flow Activation during Verbally-Based Cognitive Activities 3775 Shohei Kato, Hidetoshi Endo, Risako Nagata, Takuto Sakuma and Keita Watanabe Ultra Low Power ASIC for R-R Interval Extraction on Wearable Health Monitoring System 3780 Takayuki Fujita, Tomoya Tanaka, Koji Sonoda, Kensuke Kanda and Kazusuke Maenaka Unsupervised Classification of Cross-Section Area of Spinal Canal 3784 Chao-Cheng Wu, Guan-Sheng Huang, Yi-Ling Chen, Yung-Hsiao Chiang and Jiannher Lin Proactive Health Care Systems, Methodologies and Applications - H06-02 Ejecting Outliers to Enhance Robustness of Fuzzy Cluster Ensemble 3790 Li-Jen Kao and Yo-Ping Huang Mobile Care Robot Localization and Guidance Using Image Structure Map 3796 Chuan-Pin Lu, Ta-Hua Yeh, and Wei Huang Modeling and Performance Analysis of Route-Over and Mesh-Under Routing Schemes in 6LoWPAN 3802 Tsung-Han Lee, Hung-Shiou Chiang, Lin-Huang Chang, Ming-Chun Hsieh Chih-Hao Wen, and Kian Meng Yap An Acceleration Feature-Based Gesture Recognition System 3807 Hung-Chi Chu, Sheng-Chih Huang, and Jiun-Jiam Liaw Energy-Efficient Oriented Routing Algorithm in Wireless Sensor Networks 3813 Lin-Huang Chang, Tsung-Han Lee, Shu-Jan Chen, and Cheng-Yen Liao A Body-Sensed Motor Assessment System for Stroke Upper-Limb Rehabilitation: A Preliminary Study 3819 Chao-Hsien Lee, Yu-Hsien Chiu, Hao-Yun Kao, I-Te Chen, I-Nong Lee Wen-Hsien Ho, Liang-Yu Chen, Pin-Han Huang, Sin-Hao Chen, Chih-Yun Liu and Hsiao-Yan Lu 
lx 


Recognition of the Ambulance Siren Sound in Taiwan by the Longest Common Subsequence 3825 Jiun-Jian Liaw, Wen-Shen Wang, Hung-Chi Chu, Meng-Sian Huang and Chuan-Pin Lu Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-01 Self-Organized Holonic Multi-agent Manufacturing System: The Behavioural Perspective 3829 JosÈ Barbosa, Paulo Leit„o, Emmanuel Adam, and Damien Trentesaux Bio-inspired Self-Organising Methodologies for Production Emergence 3835 Jo„o Dias Ferreira, Luis Ribeiro, Mauro Onori, and JosÈ Barata Multiagent Mechatronic Systems with Simulation on the Loop 3842 Luis Ribeiro, JosÈ Barata, Dean Whittingslow, and Roland Krain Control System Software Design Methodology for Automotive Industry 3848 Giovanni Di Orio, JosÈ Barata, Carlos Sousa, and Luis Flores Prospection of Methods to Support Design and Configuration of Self-Organizing Mechatronic Systems 3854 P. Neves, J. Ferreira, M. Onori, L. Ribeiro, and J. Barata An Axiomatic Design Approach to Production Path Enumeration in Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems 3862 Amro M. Farid SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-21 Human Movement Analysis: Extension of the F-Statistic to Time Series Using HMM 3870 Michelle Karg, Wolfgang Seiber, Jesse Hoey, and Dana Kulic A Framework for Automatic Text Generation of Trends in Physiological Time Series Data 3876 Hadi Banaee, Mobyen Uddin Ahmed, and Amy Loutfi A Preliminary Study of Interaction Effects on Brain Activity during Cooperative Work Using fNIRS 3882 Tomoyuki Hiroyasu, Mao Goto, Utako Yamamoto, and Hisatake Yokouchi Effect of Texture Features in Computer Aided Diagnosis of Pulmonary Nodules in Low-Dose Computed Tomography 3887 Henry Krewer, Benjamin Geiger, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof Yuhua Gu, Melvyn Tockman, and Robert J. Gillies The Cybernetics of Human Cognition and Adult Language Learning 3892 Mir Azmath Ali and Narayana G.P.L. Mandaleeka 
lxi 


Automatic Design of a Novel Image Filter Based on the GA-EM Algorithm for Vein Shapes 3897 Koji Kashihara Spatial Cognition Degree of Development Classification Using Largest Lyapunov Exponents 3903 Guilherme Maron, Dante A.C. Barone, and Elias A. Ramos SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-22 A Stability Analysis Based Parameter Setting Method for Spiral Optimization 3909 Kenichi Tamura and Keiichiro Yasuda Adaptive Parameter Adjustment of Differential Evolution 3915 Ruren Ji, Kenichi Tamura, and Keiichiro Yasuda An Improvement in Classification Accuracy of Fuzzy Oriented Classifier Evolution 3921 Junji Otsuka and Tomoharu Nagao A New Partitioning Method for the IDS Method 3927 Yoshito Ozaki and Akira Utsumi Shadowed C-Means for Image Segmentation Using Local and Non-local Spatial Information 3933 Jing Zou, Long Chen, and C. L. Philip Chen Type-2 SIC Fuzzy Inference Models 3939 Hirosato Seki SMC: Human-Machine - HM-11 Game Poetry: Promotion of Poetry through a Game-Based Learning System 3944 Hsin-Yi Liang and Sherry Y. Chen Image-Based Rendering for Ink Painting 3950 Lingyu Liang and Lianwen Jin Personalization of Interactive Digital Media in Ubiquitous Educational Environments 3955 Rafael D. Ara˙jo, Taffarel Brant-Ribeiro, Renan G. Cattelan, Sandra A. de Amo and Hiran N.M. Ferreira Vibration-Induced Friction Control for Walkway Locomotion Interface 3961 Guillaume Millet, Martin J.-D. Otis, and Jeremy R. Cooperstock Qualitative Risk of Falling Assessment Based on Gait Abnormalities 3966 David Gagnon, Bob-Antoine J. Menelas, and Martin J.-D. Otis Role Analysis of Dominant and Non-dominant Hand in Daily Life 3972 Hiroshi Kousaka, Hiroshi Mizoguchi, Masahiro Yoshikawa, Hideyuki Tanaka and Yoshio Matsumoto 
lxii 


Classification of Trunk Motion for a Backbone Exoskeleton Using Inertial Data and Surface Electromyography 3978 Abhijit Kadrolkar and Frank Sup SMC: Systems Science - SYS-21 The Effect of Clustering-Based and Degree-Based Weighting on Robustness in Symmetrically Coupled Heterogeneous Interdependent Networks 3984 Yuzhuo Qiu Mixed Poisson Deterioration Model for Bridge Management 3989 Kengo Obama, Kiyoyuki Kaito, and Kiyoshi Kobayashi A System Architecture to Support Cost-Effective Transcription and Translation of Large Video Lecture Repositories 3994 Joan Albert Silvestre-Cerd‡, Alejandro PÈrez, Manuel JimÈnez, Carlos Turr Alfons Juan, and Jorge Civera Estimation of the Reflectance Distribution of Fallen Objects on Highways for Tunnel Lighting Management 4000 So Sakaguchi, Satoshi Hirakawa, Daijiro Mizutani, Kengo Obama and Kiyoyuki Kaito Background Subtraction Using Gaussian Mixture Model Enhanced by Hole Filling Algorithm \(GMMHF 4006 Adi Nurhadiyatna, Wisnu Jatmiko, Benny Hardjono, Ari Wibisono, Ibnu Sina and Petrus Mursanto Using Neuro-fuzzy Models to Benchmark Road Safety Management Systems 4012 Maris Sekar, Mohammad Moshirpour, Julian Serfontein, and Behrouz H. Far Image Based Automatic Road Surface Crack Detection for Achieving Smooth Driving on Deformed Roads 4018 Chinthaka Premachandra, H. Waruna, H. Premachandra and Chandana Dinesh Parape SMC: Systems Science - SYS-22 Coordinating the Collective Behavior of Swarm Robotics Systems Based on Incremental Evolution 4024 Kazuhiro Ohkura, Toshiyuki Yasuda, and Yoshiyuki Matsumura Mathematical Morphology Applied in Object Tracking on Position-Based Visual Servoing 4030 Diego Saqui, Fernando C. Sato, Edilson R.R. Kato, Emerson C. Pedrino and Roberto H. Tsunaki 
lxiii 


GRASPER: A Multisensory Based Manipulation System for Underwater Operations 4036 P.J. Sanz, A. PeÒalver, J. Sales, D. Fornas, J.J. Fern·ndez, J. PÈrez and J. Bernab Autonomous Robot Hitting Task Using Dynamical System Approach 4042 Farid Oubbati, Mathis Richter, and Gregor Schˆner Cross-Spectral Stereo Matching Based on Local Self-Similarities and Image Moments 4048 Tarek Mouats and Nabil Aouf The Representation of Weighted Action-Coupled Semantic Network and Spreading Activation Model for Improvisational Action 4054 Gi Hyun Lim, Il Hong Suh, and LuÌs Seabra Lopes Visual Search of an Object in Cluttered Environments for Robotic Errand Service 4060 Xi Chen and Sukhan Lee Simulation of Hardware Variations in Swarm Robots 4066 Beining Shang, Richard Crowder, and Klaus-Peter Zauner Cloud Computing - C14-01 A Game Theoretic Approach to Service Discovery and Selection 4072 Yi Chen, Bakh Khoussainov, and Xinfeng Ye EucaBomber: Experimental Evaluation of Availability in Eucalyptus Private Clouds 4080 Debora Souza, Rubens Matos, Jean Araujo, Vandi Alves, and Paulo Maciel Availability and Energy Consumption Analysis of Mobile Cloud Environments 4086 Danilo Oliveira, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, and Paulo Maciel Elasticity in Service Level Agreements 4092 Frank Schulz Stochastic Model Generation for Cloud Infrastructure Planning 4098 Erica Sousa, Paulo Maciel, Lais Medeiros, Fernando Lins, Eduardo Tavares and Erico Medeiros Private Cloud Cooperation Framework of E-Learning Environment for Disaster Recovery 4104 Satoshi Togawa and Kazuhide Kanenishi Comparative Analysis of Migration-Based Rejuvenation Schedules on Cloud Availability 4110 Matheus Melo, Jean Araujo, Rubens Matos, Julian Menezes, and Paulo Maciel 
lxiv 


Energy-Efficient Virtual Machine Management in Heterogeneous Environment Challenges, Approaches and Opportunities 4116 Mohammad Fozlul Haque Bhuiyan and Chun Wang Driver-Vehicle Systems, Modeling, Dynamics, and Control H01-02 Event-Based Control of Freeway Systems 4122 A. Ferrara S. Sacone and S. Siri Predictive Rollover Index Based on Frontal Road Geometry and On-Line Driver Information 4128 Liang-kuang Chen and Jian-min Huang Analysis of Brain Activity during VR-Based Driving Using Near-Infrared Spectroscopy 4134 Keiichi Watanuki, Kenta Hirayama, and Kazunori Kaede Eye Movement Detection for Assessing Driver Drowsiness by Electrooculography 4142 Parisa Ebrahim, Wolfgang Stolzmann, and Bin Yang A Real-Time Implementation of an MPC-Based Motion Cueing Strategy with Time-Varying Prediction 4149 Alessandro Beghi, Mattia Bruschetta, and Fabio Maran Defining "Critical Speed" in Driver-Vehicle Systems 4155 Craig West and Dongpu Cao Dynamic Trajectory Planning for Vehicle Autonomous Driving 4161 Sumin Zhang, Weiwen Deng, Qingrong Zhao, Hao Sun, and Bakhtiar Litkouhi Enhancing the Energy Efficiency of Fully Electric Vehicles via the Minimization of Motor Power Losses 4167 A. Pennycott, L. De Novellis, P. Gruber, A. Sorniotti, and T. Goggia Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-03 A Pattern Recognition Method for Automating Tactile Graphics Translation from Hand-Drawn Maps 4173 Jianjun Chen and Noboru Takagi Pupil Diameter Variation in Positive and Negative Emotions with Visual Stimulus 4179 Shuhei Kawai, Hironobu Takano, and Kiyomi Nakamura Haptics for Multi-fingered Palpation 4184 Min Li, Shan Luo, Lakmal D. Seneviratne, Thrish Nanayakkara Kaspar Althoefer, and Prokar Dasgupta 
lxv 


Evaluating Manual Palpation Trajectory Patterns in Tele-manipulation for Soft Tissue Examination 4190 Jelizaveta Konstantinova, Min Li, Vahid Aminzadeh, Kaspar Althoefer Thrishantha, and Prokar Dasgupta Human Tracking and Estimation under Occlusion Using Laser Range Scanner and Accelerometer 4196 Shogo Shibutani, Hiroki Tamura, and Koichi Tanno Accuracy of Voice Pitch Control in Singing Using Tactile Voice Pitch Feedback Display 4201 Masatsugu Sakajiri, Shigeki Miyoshi, Kenryu Nakamura, Satoshi Fukushima and Tohru Ifukube Fundamental Study on Tactile Cognition through Haptic Feedback Touchscreen 4207 Junji Onishi, Masatsugu Sakajiri, Takahiro Miurat, and Tsukasa Ono Motion Estimation Based on EMG and EEG Signals to Control Wearable Robots 4213 Kazuo Kiguchi and Yoshiaki Hayashi Perception: Part A - Perception and Its Applications - H07-01 New Perception of Fluffy Surfaces 4219 Alexander Kadyrov, Hui Yu, and Honghai Liu Development of Gazing Interface for Operation of a Page Turner Machine 4225 Nobuaki Nakazawa, Ilhwan Kim, Hiroki Murakawa, and Toshikazu Matsui Mitigating Biases in Time-to-Contact Judgments with Cockpit Displays of Traffic Information 4231 Carl Pankok and David B. Kaber Segmentation of Natural Scenes Based on Visual Attention and Gestalt Grouping Laws 4237 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Finding Text in Natural Scenes by Visual Attention 4243 R.G. Mesquita and C.A.B. Mello Tracked Object Association in Multi-camera Surveillance Network 4248 Xiaochen Dai and Shahram Payandeh Pedestrian Guidance and Sensory Fusion Using Peripheral-Vision-Stimulus and Vibratory Stimulus 4254 Norifumi Watanabe, Fumihiko Mori, and Takashi Omori 
lxvi 


SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-23 A Novel Approach for Binarization of Overlay Text 4259 Zhike Zhang and Weiqiang Wang Texture Analysis for the Segmentation of Optic Disc in Retinal Images 4265 Suraya Mohammad, D.T. Morris, and Neil Thacker A Faster Method for Chinese Font Recognition Based on Harris Corner 4271 Shuye Zhang, Lianwen Jin, Dapeng Tao, and Zhao Yang HaarHOG: Improving the HOG Descriptor for Image Classification 4276 Sugata Banerji, Atreyee Sinha, and Chengjun Liu Automatic Detection of Laughter and Fillers in Spontaneous Mobile Phone Conversations 4282 Hugues Salamin, Anna Polychroniou, and Alessandro Vinciarelli Visual Tracking Based on Compressive Sensing MCMC Sampling 4288 Lan Wang, Pingyang Dai, Yanlong Luo, Cuihua Li, and Yi Xie Modelling-Based Feature Selection for Classification of Forest Structure Using Very High Resolution Multispectral Imagery 4294 Benoit Beguet, Samia Boukir, Dominique Guyon, and Nesrine Chehata A New Method for Online Retinal Optic-Disc Detection Based on Cascade Classifiers 4300 Claudio A. Perez, Daniel A. Schulz, Carlos M. Aravena, Claudio I. Perez and T. Juan Verdaguer SMC: Cybernetics - CYB-24 Boundary Detection Based on Chromatic Color Difference and Morphological Texture Suppression 4305 D.C. Costa, C.A.B. Mello, and T.J. dos Santos Fuzzy Consistency Measure with Particle Swarm Optimization for Feature Selection 4311 Basabi Chakraborty and Goutam Chakraborty Pareto-Front Analysis and AdaBoost for Person Detection Using Heterogeneous Features 4316 A. A. Mekonnen, F. Lerasle, and A. Herbulot Pedestrian Detection under Progressive Occlusion 4322 Silvio G.O. Santos, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers Type-2 Fuzzy GMM-UBM for Text-Independent Speaker Verification 4328 Hector N.B. Pinheiro, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti, Tsang Ing Jyh and Jan Sijbers 
lxvii 


A Combined Features Approach for Speaker Segmentation Using BIC and Artificial Neural Networks 4332 Leonardo Valeriano Neri, Tsang Ing Ren, George D.C. Cavalcanti Tsang Ing Jyh, and Jan Sijbers Bird Species Classification Based on Color Features 4336 AndrÈia Marini, Jacques Facon, and Alessandro L. Koerich Regression Based Learning of Human Actions from Video Using HOF-LBP Flow Patterns 4342 Binu M. Nair and Vijayan K. Asari SMC: Human-Machine - HM-12 Finding People in Apartments with a Mobile Robot 4348 Michael Volkhardt and Horst-Michael Gross People Tracking on a Mobile Companion Robot 4354 Michael Volkhardt, Christoph Weinrich, and Horst-Michael Gross Applying Behavioral Strategies for Student Engagement Using a Robotic Educational Agent 4360 LaVonda Brown, Ryan Kerwin, and Ayanna M. Howard High Resolution Binocular Video See-Through Display for Interactive Work Support - Development of System and Evaluation of Depth Perception and Peg-in-Hole Tasks 4366 Kazuyo Iwamoto and Jun Ishikawa Assessment of the Wiimote as a Tangible User Interface for Interactive Virtual Environments 4372 Jacopo Aleotti, Stefano Caselli, and Vincenzo Micelli Improving the Localization Accuracy of Virtual Sound Source through Reinforcement Learning 4378 Manabu Washizu, Shuhei Morioka, Isao Nambu, Shohei Yano Haruhide Hokari, and Yasuhiro Wada Appearance-Based 3D Upper-Body Pose Estimation and Person Re-identification on Mobile Robots 4384 Christoph Weinrich, Michael Volkhardt, and Horst-Michael Gross Learning Behaviors from Human Teachers by Generalizing Task-Relevant Features 4391 Huan Tan and Qu Zhang 
lxviii 


SMC: Systems Science - SYS-23 3D Face Recognition: Feature Extraction Based on Directional Signatures from Range Data and Disparity Maps 4397 Soodamani Ramalingam Multi Image Encryption and Steganography Based on Synchronization of Chaotic Lasers 4403 Sumona Mukhopadhyay and Henry Leung Design and Analysis of the Gateway-Level Topology Map in Topology-Aware ALM Systems 4409 Jianqun Cui, Naixue Xiong, Libing Wu, Keming Jia, and Kuan Gao Organizational Responsibility Model: Dealing with Demand for Services Higher Than Installed Capacity 4415 Guttenberg Ferreira Passos, Ilan Chamovitz, and Babis Theodoulidis A Situated Approach to Systems Based Modeling of Services 4421 Anshuman Saxena and Alain Wegmann Systems Oriented Approach to Production Support - A Viable Framework 4427 Veerendra K. Rai 3D Face Synthesis with KINECT 4433 Soodamani Ramalingam and Nguyen Trong Viet Increase Energy Efficiency of Data Center Cooling Facilities with Airflow Optimization 4439 Jochen Buchholz, Yosandra Sandoval, and Eugen Volk SMC: Systems Science - SYS-24 A Robust Anomaly Detection in Pantograph-Catenary System Based on Mean-Shift Tracking and Foreground Detection 4444 Ilhan Aydin, Mehmet Karakˆse, and Erhan Akin Distributed Algorithm for Connected Dominating Set Construction in Sensor Networks 4450 Najla Al-Nabhan, Mznah Al-Rodhaan, Abdullah Al-Dhelaan, and Xiuzhen Cheng A Smart Surface Simulation Environment 4456 David R.W. Barr, Declan Walsh, and Piotr Dudek Developing an Agent Model of a Missing Person in the Wilderness 4462 W. Mohibullah and Simon J. Julie Multi-robot Cooperation Based on Continuous Reinforcement Learning with Two State Space Representations 4470 Toshiyuki Yasuda, Kazuhiro Ohkura, and Kazuaki Yamada 
lxix 


Hierarchical Navigation Architecture and Robotic Arm Controller for a Sample Return Rover 4476 Velin Dimitrov, Mathew DeDonato, Adam Panzica, Samir Zutshi, Mitchell Wills and Taskin Padir Modular Robot Arm Design for Physical Human-Robot Interaction 4482 Ty Tremblay and Taskin Padir Kinematic Control of a Planetary Exploration Rover over Rough Terrain 4488 Thomas J. Carlone, Jon J. Anderson, Joseph L. Amato, Velin D. Dimitrov and Taskin Padir SMC: Systems Science - SYS-25 Thesaurus Performance with Information Retrieval: Schema Matching as a Case Study 4494 Thabit Sabbah and Ali Selamat A Novel Method for the Development of an Idealised Active Roll Stabilisation System Model 4499 Ingo Scharfenbaum, Alessio Fratini, and Gunther Prokop Conceptual Modeling Semantics for the Physical-Informatical Essence Duality Problem 4505 Yaniv Mordecai, Craig Chapman, and Dov Dori Research on the Application of Multi-model Predictive Control in Coordinated Control of 1,000 MW Ultra-supercritical Unit 4511 Xi Zhang, Shihe Chen, Weiwu Yan, and Guoliang Wang Control of Polystyrene Batch Reactor Using Fuzzy Logic Controller 4516 Mohammad Anwar Hosen, Abbas Khosravi, Saeid Nahavandi and Douglas Creighton Backstepping Control on SE\(3 Tracking 4522 Hyeonbeom Lee, Suseong Kim, Tyler Ryan, and H. Jin Kim An Agent-Based Simulation to Quantify and Analyze Bullwhip Effects in Supply Chains 4528 Nguyen Quoc Chinh, Li Zhengping, Tan Puay Siew, Chen Xianshun and Ong Yew Soon 
lxx 


Advances in Medical Informatics - C18-01 A Texture Feature Ranking Model for Predicting Survival Time of Brain Tumor Patients 4533 Mu Zhou, Lawrence O. Hall, Dmitry B. Goldgof, Robert A. Gatenby and Robert J. Gillies Diagnosis of Lymphatic Diseases Using a Naive Bayes Style Possibilistic Classifier 4539 Karim Baati, Tarek M. Hamdani, and Adel M. Alimi Revisiting Link-Based Cluster Ensembles for Microarray Data Classification 4543 Natthakan Iam-On and Tossapon Boongoen Automated Driving and Safety Systems - H09-01 Towards Evaluation of Post Impact Braking Function in Driving Simulator 4549 Faouzi Al Mouatamid, Artem Kusachov, Bengt Jacobson, and Derong Yang Using a Mediator to Handle Undesired Feature Interaction of Automated Driving 4555 Dominik Ertl, Sven Dominka, and Hermann Kaindl Lateral Control of Vehicle Platoons 4561 Stefan Solyom, Arash Idelchi, and Badr Bin Salamah Environmental Information Systems - S12-01 A Survey on Environmental Open Data in Austria 4566 Peter Wetz, Amin Anjomshoaa, and A. Min Tjoa An Intelligent Lighting System with a Seat Management Mechanism 4571 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegami, Ryoga Okunishi, Kazuki Matsutani and Shohei Fujimoto Combination of Preferred Illuminance and Preferred Color Temperature for Work 4577 Mitsunori Miki, Hisanori Ikegam, Yo Motoya, and Shohei Fujimoto Maximization of the Average Color Rendering Index of Color Temperature and Illuminance Constraints 4583 Mitsunori Miki, Shohei Fujimoto, Yo Motoya, and Ryoga Okunishi Ontology-Based Integration of Heterogeneous Material Data Resources in Product Lifecycle Management 4589 Touba Rahmani, SÈbastien Bougain, and Detlef Gerhard 
lxxi 


Human-Centered Transportation Systems - H05-02 The Effect of Motion-Induced Factor on the Operator Performance during Ship's Watch 4595 Tunglam Ngodang, Koji Murai, Yuji Hayashi, Nobuo Mitomo, Kenji Yoshimura and Kenjiro Hikida Evaluation of Pilot Mental Workload for Simulator Based Training Using Heart Rate Variability 4601 Masahiro Tanaka, Koji Murai, and Yuji Hayashi Trial Study of Traffic Safety Education for High School Students Using Driving Simulator 4606 Takashi Imamura, Tomonari Ogi, Elvin Tiong Chew Lun, Zhong Zhang and Tetsuo Miyake Emotion and Gesture Recognition with Soft Computing Tool for Drivers Assistance System in Human Centered Transportation 4612 Urvashi Agrawal, Shubhangi Giripunje, and Preeti Bajaj Medical and Health Care Systems - S23-04 Use of Simulated Inertia to Improve the Performance of a BEP Human-Computer Interface 4617 Noel Segura Meraz and Yasuhisa Hasegawa Multi-human Locating in Real Environment by Thermal Sensor 4623 Masato Kuki, Hiroshi Nakajima, Naoki Tsuchiya, and Yutaka Hata On a Learning-Science System Supporting Visually Impaired Students via the Haptic Device 4629 Takashi Suzuki, Tomoyuki Araki, Katsuhiro Kawai Yasuyuki Murai and Hisayuki Tatsumi Metaheuristic Algorithms for Data Mining - C16-01 DECoDe - Differential Evolution Algorithm for Community Detection 4635 Thiago P. Leal, Amanda C.A. GonÁalves, VinÌcius da F. Vieira and Carolina R. Xavier The Effect of Features Using Feature Selection for Bayesian Classifier 4641 L. Moore and C. Kambhampati A Hybrid Approach for Mining Frequent Itemsets 4647 Bay Vo, Frans Coenen, Tuong Le, and Tzung-Pei Hong An IT2FLS-Based Malware Analysis Mechanism: Malware Analysis Network in Taiwan \(MiT 4652 Hsien-De Huang, Chang-Shing Lee Mei-Hui Wang, and Hung-Yu Kao 
lxxii 


SMC: Human-Machine - HM-13 User-Friendly Free-Text Keystroke Dynamics Authentication for Practical Applications 4658 Arwa Alsultan and Kevin Warwick A Study on Body Part Motion Caused by Improper Crutch Walk 4664 Naoaki Tsuda, Kota Tominaga, Yoshihiko Nomura, and Norihiko Kato Simulation Interface for Gesture-Based Remote Control of a Surgical Lighting Arm 4670 Jean-FranÁois Collumeau, Elyse Nespoulous, HÈlËne Laurent, and Benoit Magnain Topic and Opinion Classification Based Information Credibility Analysis on Twitter 4676 Yukino Ikegami, Kenta Kawai, Yoshimi Namihira, and Setsuo Tsuruta Human Interactions for Self-Adaptive Virtual Product Prototype 4682 L·szlÛ Horv·th and Imre J. Rudas Towards a Rule-Based Bidding Language: Promoting the Free Expression of Rational Conduct for Ecosystem Friendly E-Markets 4688 Wafa Ghonaim, Hamada Ghenniwa, and Weiming Shen SMC: Systems Science - SYS-26 A Dwi-Phase Fuzzy Control Structure for an Auto-mode Stair Climbing Wheelchair 4694 N.M.A Ghani and M.O. Tokhi SOS-Based Fuzzy Control of a Wheeled Mobile Robot with Decay Rate 4700 Gwo-Ruey Yum and Wei-Yi Wang Model-less versus Model-Based Controllers for Diabetes 4706 Ahmed Y. Ben Sasi and Mahmud A. Elmalki Guaranteed Cost Control Design Based on Takagi-Sugeno Fuzzy Systems with Nonlinear Subsystems 4712 Shunsuke Ochiai, Jun Yoneyama, and Yuzu Uchida Center of Mass Estimation for Rehabilitation in a Multi-contact Environment: A Simulation Study 4718 Alejandro Gonz·lez, Mitsuhiro Hayashibe, Emel Demircan, and Philippe Fraisse A Simple Phenomenological Modeling of McKibben Pneumatic Actuator and Its Application to Control 4724 Fumitake Fujii, Hiroyoshi Murata, Yuta Hirose, and Takuya Okada State Space Realization of Wood Drying Process: Modeling, Simulation and Evaluation in Reality 4731 Saleh S. Delshad and Thomas Gustafsson 
lxxiii 


Energy Saving and System Performance - An Art of Trade-Off for Controller Design 4737 Kang Li, Yongling Wu, Shaoyuan Li, and Yugeng Xi SMC: Systems Science - Flexible Production Management SYS-27 Multi-agent System Approach for the Strategic Planning in Ramp-Up Production of Small Lots 4743 Paulo Leit„o, JosÈ Barbosa, Pavel Vrba, Petr Skobelev, Alexander Tsarev and Daria Kazanskaia A Conceptual Architecture Based on Intelligent Services for Manufacturing Support Systems 4749 CÈsar A. MarÌn, Lars Mˆnch, Paulo Leit„o, Pavel Vrba, Daria Kazanskaia Vadim Chepegin, Liwei Liu, and Nikolay Mehandjiev Knowledge-Driven Adaptive Production Management Based on Real-Time User Feedback and Ontology Updates 4755 Daria Kazanskaia, Sergey Kozhevnikov, Vladimir Larukhin, Petr Skobelev Alexander Tsarev, and Yaroslav Shepilov Evaluation of an Ecosystem-Based Architecture for Adaptation to Cascades of Changes 4760 CÈsar A. MarÌn Systems Safety and Security - S20-01 Critical Infrastructures Governance Exploring SCADA Cybernetics through Architectured Policy Semantic 4766 Djamel Khadraoui and Christophe Feltus DNSsec in Isabelle - Replay Attack and Origin Authentication 4772 Florian Kamm¸ller, Yoney Kirsal-Ever, and Xiaochun Cheng On the Design of a System for Airport Protection against Terrorist Attacks Using MANPADs 4778 Ionescu Octavian and Pricop Emil Security Threats against the Communication Networks for Traffic Control Systems 4783 Huipu Fan, Yizhou Dong, Ming Yu, and Leonard Tung Chance-Constrained Programming Method by Constraints Aggregation for Social Consensus Making on IT Risk Countermeasure 4789 Katsunori Sato, Masaki Samejima, and Ryoichi Sasaki Performability Evaluation of Emergency System 4794 Marcus Queiroz, Paulo Maciel, Bruno Silva, and Almir P. Guimar„es 
lxxiv 


A Novel Automatic Load Shedding Scheme to Improve Survivability of Distribution Networks 4800 Hao-Tian Zhang, Loi Lei Lai, and Jiebei Zhu Future ICT-Enabled Manufacturing Execution - H12-01 An Exploratory Study into Automated Real-Time Categorisation of Engineering E-Mail 4806 James A. Gopsill, Stephen J. Payne, and Ben J. Hicks Automated Sound Signalling Device Quality Assurance Tool for Embedded Industrial Control Applications 4812 Tomasz Maniak, Rahat Iqbal, Faiyaz Doctor, and Chrisina Jayne Highly Flexible Self-Reconfigurable Systems for Rapid Layout Formation to Offer Manufacturing Services 4819 Victor M. Cedeno-Campos, Paul A. Trodden, Tony J. Dodd, and Jim Heley Physiologically Inspired Systems - S24-01 Human-Inspired Anticipative Postural Control Architecture for Humanoid Robots 4825 S. Martinez, A. JardÛn, and C. Balaguer Artificial Homeostasis for Engineering Systems: Involuntary Reflexes in Physiologically-Inspired Control Applications 4831 Carlos C. Insaurralde Learning from Big Data and Uncertainty - C06-01 Sample Selection Based on K-L Divergence for Effectively Training SVM 4837 Junhai Zhai and Chang Li A Reduction Algorithm for the Big Data in 3D Surface Reconstruction 4843 Jianwei Zhao, Yanqing Fu, Yuanpeng Tan, and Feilong Cao The Nested Structure in Fuzzy Rough Classifier 4848 Zhao Suyun, Chen Hong, Li Cuiping, and Chen Yu Medical Informatics - C17-01 Variation of Dynamic Muscle Model during Fatigue-Inducing Voluntary Contraction 4854 Youngjin Na, Suncheol Kwon, Jung Kim, and Changmok Choi Mining Clinical Pathway Using Clustering and Rule Induction 4860 Shusaku Tsumoto, Shoji Hirano, and Haruko Iwata 
lxxv 


Self-Organization and Emergence in Distributed Manufacturing Systems - S08-02 Characterization of Costs and Strategies for Automation in Evolvable Production Systems 4866 Antonio Maffei, Hakan Akillioglu, and Luis Flores Reliable Self-Learning Production Systems Based on Context Aware Services 4872 Sebastian Scholze, Dragan Stokic, Oliver Kotte, Jose Barata, Giovani Di Orio and Goncalo Candido Energy Efficiency in Machine Tools - A Self-Learning Approach 4878 Giovanni Di Orio, GoncÁlo C‚ndido, JosÈ Barata, JosÈ Luiz Bittencourt and Ralf Bonefeld Personalised Fuzzy Recommendation for High Involvement Products 4884 Vassilis C. Gerogiannis, Anthony Karageorgos, Liwei Liu, and Christos Tjortjis SMC: Systems Science - SYS-28 Semi-Gaku \(Semistry 4891 Toshinori Watanabe From Sense to Print: Towards Automatic 3D Printing from 3D Sensing Devices 4897 Nadia Figueroa, Haiwei Dong, and Abdulmotaleb El Saddik Computationally Tractable Approaches to Modeling the Coverage of Weather Sensor Networks 4905 Ziho Kang and Ellen J. Bass Information-Theoretic Characterization of Uncertainty in Manual Control 4913 Dari Trendafilov and Roderick Murray-Smith Healthcare and Enterprise Systems - S03-01 Mitigating Collisions in Saturated Wireless Network with Receiver Token Ring 4919 Liuxiao Zheng, Kewang Zhang, and Deyun Zhang Design of BCI Based Multi-information System to Restore Hand Motor Function for Stroke Patients 4924 Lin Gao, Jue Wang, Jin Li, and Yang Zheng SMC: Systems Science - SYS-29 A Small-Scale Traffic Monitoring System in Urban Wireless Sensor Networks 4929 Jin Zhou, C. L. Philip Chen, and Long Chen Decentralized Control for Second-Order Uncertain Nonlinear Multi-agent Systems Consensus Problem Based on Fuzzy Adaptive High-Gain Observer 4935 Changíe Ren and C.L. Philip Chen 
lxxvi 


Adaptive NN Consensus Control for a Class of Nonlinear Multi-agent Time-Delay Systems 4941 Guo-Xing Wen and C.L. Philip Chen Author Index 4947 
lxxvii 


Ridha, Ben Abdennour National School of Engineers of Gabes  FrB13 Olympic PID Control Lecture Session Chair: Hernandez-Guzman, Victor M Univ. Autonoma De Queretaro Co-Chair: Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 13:40-14:00 FrB13.1 MPC and PID Control Based on Multi-Objective Optimization pp. 4727-4732 Gambier, Adrian Univ. of Heidelberg 14:00-14:20 FrB13.2 Optimal PID Controller Design Using Standard Optimal Control Techniques pp. 4733-4738 O'Brien, Richard United States Naval Acad Howe III, Jamie United States Naval Acad 14:20-14:40 FrB13.3 P Quasi-I D Control for MIMO Systems_; ---Stabilization Based on High Gain Output Feedback pp. 4739-4745 Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB13.4 Robust Stabilization and PID Control for Nonlinear Discretized Systems on a Grid Pattern pp. 4746-4751 Okuyama, Yoshifumi Humanitech Lab 15:00-15:20 FrB13.5 Synthesis of PID Controller with Guaranteed Stability Margin for a Class of Unstable MIMO Systems pp. 4752-4754 Chang, Tsu-Shuan Univ. of California, Davis 15:20-15:40 FrB13.6 Modified Relay Feedback Test and Its Use for Non-Parametric Loop Tuning pp. 4755-4760 Boiko, Igor IMB Controls  FrB14 Adams Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Co-Chair: Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 13:40-14:00 FrB14.1 Adaptive Output-Feedback Control of MIMO Plants with Unknown, Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4761-4766 Mirkin, Boris Tech. -- Israel Inst. of Tech Gutman, Per-Olof Tech. Inst. of Tech Falcone, Paolo Chalmers Univ. of Tech 14:00-14:20 FrB14.2 Markov-Parameter-Based Adaptive Control of 3-Axis Angular Velocity in a Six-Degree-Of-Freedom Stewart Platform pp. 4767-4772 Pence, Benjamin Univ. of Michigan Santillo, Mario Univ. of Michigan Bernstein, Dennis S Univ. of Michigan 14:20-14:40 FrB14.3 Discrete Time Lyapunov Stable Staggered Estimator MIMO Adaptive Interference Cancelation with Experimental Verification pp 4773-4778 Arif, Jawad Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering Akhtar, Suhail Inst. of Avionics and Aeronautical Engineering 14:40-15:00 FrB14.4 Control System Design for Retinal Imaging Adaptive Optics Systems pp. 4779-4784 Ficocelli, Maurizio Univ. of Toronto Ben Amara, Foued Univ. of Toronto 15:00-15:20 FrB14.5 Adaptive Controller Design and Disturbance Attenuation for Sequentially Interconnected SISO Linear Systems under Noisy Output Measurements with Partly Measured Disturbances pp. 4785-4790 Zeng, Sheng Hewlett-Packard Company Fernandez, Emmanuel Univ. of Cincinnati 15:20-15:40 FrB14.6 Homography-Based Visual Servo Control Via an Uncalibrated Camera pp. 4791-4796 Hu, Guoqiang Univ. of Florida Mackunis, William Univ. of Florida Gans, Nicholas Univ. of Florida Dixon, Warren E Univ. of Florida  


FrB15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong Co-Chair: Haggblom, Kurt E Abo Akademi Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB15.1 Improved Robust Du-Stability Measures Via S-Procedure pp. 4797-4802 Sari, Bilal Univ. of Poitiers Bachelier, Olivier Univ. of Poitiers Mehdi, Driss ESIP-LAII Al Chaer, Toufic Univ. of Poitiers 14:00-14:20 FrB15.2 Robust H_inf SMC of Uncertain Switched Systems with Time Delay pp. 4803-4808 Lian, Jie Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB15.3 Two Algorithms for Model Quality Estimation in State-Space Systems with Time-Varying Parameter Uncertainty pp. 4809-4814 Salehpour, Soheil Lule Univ. of Tech Johansson, Andreas Lulea Univ. of Tech 14:40-15:00 FrB15.4 Robust H_{infty} Control for a Class of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems Via Dynamic Output Feedback pp. 4815-4820 Sun, Man Beihang Univ Jia, Yingmin Beihang Univ Du, Junping Beijing Univ. of Posts and Telecommunications Yuan, Shiying Henan Pol. Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB15.5 The Servomechanism Problem for Unknown MIMO LTI Positive Systems: Feedforward and Robust Tuning Regulators pp. 4821-4826 Roszak, Bartek Univ. of Toronto Davison, Edward J Univ. of Toronto 15:20-15:40 FrB15.6 Parameter Convergence with an Adaptive Output Regulation Problem pp. 4827-4832 Liu, Lu Chinese Univ. of HongKong Chen, Zhiyong The Univ. of Newcastle Huang, Jie Chinese Univ. of Hong Kong  FrB16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control I Lecture Session Chair: Krishnakumar, Kalmanje NASA Ames Res. Center Co-Chair: Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB16.1 Space Station Zero-Propellant Maneuver Guidance Trajectories Compared to Eigenaxis pp. 4833-4838 Bedrossian, Nazareth Charles Stark Draper Lab Bhatt, Sagar The Charles Stark Draper Lab. Inc 14:00-14:20 FrB16.2 Attitude Tracking with Adaptive Rejection of Rate Gyro Disturbances pp. 4839-4844 Pisu, Pierluigi Clemson Univ Serrani, Andrea The Ohio State Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB16.3 Stabilization of the Angular Velocity of a Rigid Body System Using Two Torques: Energy Matching Condition pp. 4845-4849 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion Suarez-Castanon, Miguel Santiago Inst. Pol. Nacional Guzman-Aguilar, Florencio ESCOM-IPN 14:40-15:00 FrB16.4 Satellite Attitude Control Using Three Reaction Wheels pp. 4850-4855 Nudehi, Shahin MIchigan State Farooq, Umar Michigan State Univ Alasty, Aria Sharif Univ. of Tech Issa, Jimmy Michigan State Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB16.5 Satellite Attitude Control Using Statistical Game Theory pp. 4856-4861 Lee, Jong-Ha Temple Univ Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB16.6 Uniform Practical Output-Feedback Stabilization of Spacecraft Relative Rotation pp. 4862-4867 


Kristiansen, Raymond Narvik Univ. Coll Loria, Antonio CNRS Chaillet, Antoine Univ. Paris Sud Nicklasson, Per Johan Narvik Univ. Coll  FrB17 Whidbey Fuzzy Systems Lecture Session Chair: Lin, Jonqlan Ching Yun Univ Co-Chair: Langari, Reza Texas A&M Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB17.1 A Fuzzy-Based Reconstruction Algorithm for Estimating Metal Fill Profile in Lost Foam Casting pp. 4868-4874 Deabes, Wael Tennessee Tech. Univ Abdelrahman, Mohamed A Tennessee Tech. Univ Rajan, P. K Tennessee Tech. Univ 14:00-14:20 FrB17.2 An SOS-Based Stable Control of Polynomial Discrete Fuzzy Systems pp. 4875-4880 Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:20-14:40 FrB17.3 Fuzzy Model-Based Servo Control for Discrete-Time Nonlinear Systems pp. 4881-4886 Ohtake, Hiroshi Univ. of Electro-communications Tanaka, Kazuo Univ. of Electro-Communications Wang, Hua O Boston Univ 14:40-15:00 FrB17.4 Nonquadratic Lyapunov Function Based Control Law Design for Discrete Fuzzy Systems with State and Input Delays pp. 4887-4892 Sun, Yuming Jiangnan Univ Shen, Yanxia Southern Yangtze Univ Ji, Zhicheng Southern Yangtze Univ 15:00-15:20 FrB17.5 Designing a Hierarchical Fuzzy Controller for Backing-Up a Four Wheel Autonomous Robot pp. 4893-4897 Shahmaleki, Pourya Shiraz Univ Mahzoon, Mojtaba Shiraz Univ 15:20-15:40 FrB17.6 Adaptive Fuzzy Control of Unknown Nonlinear Systems with Actuator Failures for Robust Output Tracking pp. 4898-4903 Li, Ping Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrB18 Vashon I Delay Systems I Lecture Session Chair: Rodrigues, Luis Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ 13:40-14:00 FrB18.1 Recursive Predictor Design for Linear Systems with Time Delay pp. 4904-4909 Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 14:00-14:20 FrB18.2 Convex Analysis and Synthesis for Uncertain Discrete-Time Systems with Time-Varying State Delay pp. 4910-4915 Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div 14:20-14:40 FrB18.3 Lyapunov Tools for Predictor Feedbacks for Delay Systems: Inverse Optimality and Robustness to Delay Mismatch pp. 4916-4921 Krstic, Miroslav Univ. of California at San Diego 14:40-15:00 FrB18.4 Chain Stability in Traffic Flow with Driver Reaction Delays pp. 4922-4927 Sipahi, Rifat Northeastern Univ Niculescu, Silviu-Iulian CNRS-Supelec 15:00-15:20 FrB18.5 Robust Control and Time-Domain Specifications for Systems of Delay Differential Equations Via Eigenvalue Assignment pp. 4928-4933 Yi, Sun Univ. of Michigan Nelson, Patrick Univ. of Michigan Ulsoy, A. Galip Univ. of Michigan 15:20-15:40 FrB18.6 


Stabilization of Discrete Time-Varying Delay Systems: A Convex Parameter Dependent Approach pp. 4934-4939 Leite, Valter J. S CEFET/MG - Campus Div Miranda, Marcio Fantini Federal Univ. of Minas Gerais  FrC03 Grand Ballroom III Robust Control Lecture Session Chair: Fujita, Masayuki Tokyo Inst. of Tech Co-Chair: Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC03.1 An Improved Version of of the RBode Plot pp. 4940-4945 Xia, Lu Carnegie Mellon Univ Messner, William Carnegie Mellon Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC03.2 Robust H Infinity Control of an Uncertain System Via a Stable Postive Real Output Feedback Controller pp. 4946-4953 Petersen, Ian R UNSW at Australian Def. Force Acad 16:40-17:00 FrC03.3 Fractional Robust Control with Iso-Damping Property pp. 4954-4959 Pommier-Budinger, Valerie ISAE Janat, Yaman ENSICA Nelson Gruel, Dominique Bordeaux 1 Lanusse, Patrick Bordeaux 1 Univ Oustaloup, Alain Univ. Bordeaux 1 - ENSEIRB - ENSCPB 17:00-17:20 FrC03.4 Relaxed Robust Stabilization of Nonlinear Systems with Parametric Uncertainties pp. 4960-4965 Chen, Zhaona Northeastern Univ Zheng, Xiuping Northeastern Univ Jing, Yuanwei Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul 17:20-17:40 FrC03.5 Gamma-Independent H-Inf-Discretization of Sampled-Data Systems by Modified Fast-Sample/Fast-Hold Approximation with Fast Liftin g pp 4966-4972 Hagiwara, Tomomichi Kyoto Univ Okada, Koichiro Kyoto Univ  FrC05 Grand Ballroom II Networked Control Systems III Lecture Session Chair: Lemmon, Michael Univ. of Notre Dame Co-Chair: Martins, Nuno C Univ. of Maryland 16:00-16:20 FrC05.1 Network-Based H_{infty} Control of Systems with Packet Dropout and Time-Varying Sampling Period pp. 4973-4978 Wang, Yu-Long Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC05.2 On Transmitter Design in Power Constrained LQG Control pp. 4979-4984 Breun, Peter Tech. Univ. Munich \(TUM Utschick, Wolfgang TUM 16:40-17:00 FrC05.3 On Decentralized Optimal Control and Information Structures pp. 4985-4990 Motee, Nader Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Bamieh, Bassam Univ. of California at Santa Barbara 17:00-17:20 FrC05.4 Stabilization of Networked Control Systems with Large Delays and Packet Dropouts pp. 4991-4996 Cloosterman, Marieke Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Van De Wouw, Nathan Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Heemels, Maurice Eindhoven Univ. of Tech Nijmeijer, Hendrik Eindhoven Univ. of Tech 17:20-17:40 FrC05.5 Stability Analysis for a Class of Networked/embedded Control Systems: A Discrete-Time Approach pp. 4997-5002 Fujioka, Hisaya Kyoto Univ  


FrC06 5th Avenue Games and Decision Processes Lecture Session Chair: Neogi, Natasha A Univ. of Illinois Co-Chair: Sundaram, Shreyas Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 16:00-16:20 FrC06.1 Robust Markov Decision Processes Using Sigma Point Sampling pp. 5003-5008 Bertuccelli, Luca F Massachusetts Inst. of Tech How, Jonathan P MIT 16:20-16:40 FrC06.2 Multi-Cumulant and Pareto Strategies for Stochastic Multi-Player Pursuit-Evasion pp. 5009-5015 Pham, Khanh D Air Force Res. Lab Lacy, Seth L Air Force Res. Lab Robertson, Lawrence AIR FORCE Res. Lab 16:40-17:00 FrC06.3 Recursive Computation of Stochastic Nash Games with State-Dependent Noise for Weakly-Coupled Large-Scale Systems pp. 5016-5022 Mukaidani, Hiroaki Hiroshima Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC06.4 N Player Nash Cumulant Games pp. 5023-5028 Diersing, Ronald Univ. of Southern Indiana Sain, Michael K Univ. of Notre Dame Won, Chang-Hee Temple Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC06.5 A Potential-Based Method for Finite-Stage Markov Decision Processes pp. 5029-5034 Jia, Qing-Shan Tsinghua Univ  FrC09 Vashon II Multivehicle Systems Lecture Session Chair: Martinez, Sonia Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Pagilla, Prabhakar R Oklahoma State Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC09.1 Elastic Multi-Particle Systems for Bounded-Curvature Path Planning pp. 5035-5040 Ahmadzadeh, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Jadbabaie, Ali Univ. of Pennsylvania Pappas, George J Univ. of Pennsylvania Kumar, Vijay Univ. of Pennsylvania 16:20-16:40 FrC09.2 Value-Based Control of the Observation-Decision Process pp. 5041-5046 McEneaney, William Univ. of California, San Diego Oran, Ali Univ. of California, San Diego Cavender, Andrew Univ. of California, San Diego 16:40-17:00 FrC09.3 Decentralized Control Based on the Value of Information in Large Vehicle Arrays pp. 5047-5054 Speyer, Jason L Univ. of California at Los Angeles Seok, Ilwoo UCLA Michelin, Andre UCLA 17:00-17:20 FrC09.4 Decentralized Reactive Collision Avoidance for Multiple Unicycle-Type Vehicles pp. 5055-5061 Lalish, Emmett Univ. of Washington Morgansen, Kristi A Univ. of Washington Tsukamaki, Takashi The Boeing Company 17:20-17:40 FrC09.5 On Robust Control Algorithms for Nonlinear Network Consensus Protocols pp. 5062-5067 Hui, Qing Georgia Inst. of Tech Haddad, Wassim M Georgia Inst. of Tech Bhat, Sanjay P Indian Inst. of Tech. - Bombay  FrC10 Cascade I \(A Switched Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Cortes, Jorge Univ. of California at San Diego Co-Chair: Najson, Federico Univ. de la Rep˙blica 16:00-16:20 FrC10.1 Robust H-Infinity Control for a Class of Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems Using Constructive Approach pp. 5068-5073 


Li, Li-li Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC10.2 Average Dwell-Time Method to L2-Gain Analysis and Control Synthesis for Uncertain Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5074-5079 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC10.3 H_infinity Control for a Class of Non-Minimum-Phase Cascade Switched Nonlinear Systems pp. 5080-5085 Wang, Min Northeast Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC10.4 Applications of a Model Matching Framework in Switched Systems pp. 5086-5091 Jiang, Shengxiang Univ. of California, Santa Barbara Voulgaris, Petros G Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 17:20-17:40 FrC10.5 Fast-Switching Pulse Synchronization of Chaotic Oscillators pp. 5092-5097 Fiorilli, Francesca Pol. Univ Porfiri, Maurizio Pol. Univ  FrC11 Cascade I \(B Modeling and Simulation Lecture Session Chair: Braatz, Richard D Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Co-Chair: Ou, Yongsheng Lehigh Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC11.1 Stack-Level Validation of a Semi-Analytic Channel-To-Channel Fuel Cell Model for Two-Phase Water Distribution Boundary Value Co ntrol  pp. 5098-5103 McCain, Buz Univ. of Michigan Siegel, Jason Univ. of Michigan Stefanopoulou, Anna G Univ. of Michigan 16:20-16:40 FrC11.2 Modeling and Simulation of PEM Fuel Cell with Bond Graph and 20sim pp. 5104-5108 Peraza, Cesar Inst. Univ. TecnolÛgico Valencia Diaz, Jose Gregorio Univ. de Carabobo Arteaga-Bravo, Francisco J Univ. de Carabobo Villanueva, Carlos Univ. de Carabobo Gonzalez-Longatt, Francisco UNEFA 16:40-17:00 FrC11.3 An Improved Finite Element Model of Incremental Forming Using Conic Programming pp. 5109-5114 Raithatha, Ankor Mahendra Oxford Univ Duncan, Stephen Univ. of Oxford 17:00-17:20 FrC11.4 Study of Three Different Approaches for Development of Power System Aggregated Load Area Models pp. 5115-5120 Wei, Jianlin Univ. of Birmingham Wang, Jihong Univ. of Birmingham Wu, Q. Henry Univ. of Liverpool Jia, Nan Univ. of Liverpool Lu, Nan Univ. of Liverppol 17:20-17:40 FrC11.5 Adaptive Synchronization for a Class of Complex Delayed Dynamical Networks pp. 5121-5126 Zhong, Wei-Song Northeastern Univ Dimirovski, Georgi M Dogus Univ. of Istanbul Zhao, Jun The Australian National Univ  FrC12 Orcas Nonlinear Control Analysis and Applications II Lecture Session Chair: Sanfelice, Ricardo G Univ. of California Santa Barbara Co-Chair: Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 16:00-16:20 FrC12.1 Planning a Finite Time Transition from a Non-Stationary to a Stationary Point without Overshoot pp. 5127-5129 Reger, Johann Tech. Univ. Berlin 


16:20-16:40 FrC12.2 Stabilizing Control of Symmetric Affine Systems by Direct Gradient Descent Control pp. 5130-5135 Tamura, Kenichi Keio Univ Shimizu, Kiyotaka Keio Univ 16:40-17:00 FrC12.3 Transfer Equivalence and Reduction of Nonlinear Delta Differential Equations on Homogeneous Time Scale pp. 5136-5141 Casagrande, Daniele Imperial Coll. London Kotta, ‹lle Inst. of Cybernetics at TUT Wyrwas, Malgorzata Tallinn Univ. of Tech Tonso, Maris Inst. of Cybernetics at Tallinn Univ. of 17:00-17:20 FrC12.4 QFT Control for Vibration Reduction in Structures Equipped with MR Dampers pp. 5142-5144 Zapateiro, Mauricio Univ. of Girona Luo, Ningsu Univ. of Girona Karimi, Hamid Reza Univ. of Girona 17:20-17:40 FrC12.5 A Constructive Lyapunov Function for Controlling the Inverted Pendulum pp. 5145-5149 Aguilar-Ibanez, Carlos Centro De Investigacion En Computacion  FrC14 Adams Robust and Adaptive Control II Lecture Session Chair: Packard, Andrew K Univ. of California at Berkeley Co-Chair: Schofield, Brad Lund Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC14.1 An Initial Study of a Combined Robust and Adaptive Control Approach to Guaranteed Performance Flight Control pp. 5150-5155 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC Mehra, Raman K Scientific Systems Co. Inc 16:20-16:40 FrC14.2 Adaptive Control Using Reduced-Order Observers pp. 5156-5161 Boskovic, Jovan D Scientific Systems Co. Inc Knoebel, Nathan Scientific Systems Company INC 16:40-17:00 FrC14.3 Adaptive Robust Control of Uncertain Neutral Time-Delay Systems pp. 5162-5167 Moezzi, Kaveh Concordia Univ Aghdam, Amir G Concordia Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC14.4 Practical Robust Adaptive Control: Benchmark Example pp. 5168-5173 Kuipers, Matthew Univ. of Southern California Ioannou, Petros A Univ. of Southern California 17:20-17:40 FrC14.5 Adaptive Hybrid Control for Omnidirectional Mobile Manipulators Using Neural Network pp. 5174-5179 Tan, Xiangmin Key Lab. of Complex SystemsandIntelligentScience,Inst. Auto Zhao, Dongbin Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Yi, Jianqiang Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences Xu, Dong Inst. of Automation, Chinese Acad. of Sciences  FrC15 Blakeley Uncertain Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Hu, Jianghai Purdue Univ Co-Chair: Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:00-16:20 FrC15.1 Control of Uncertain Systems with Guaranteed Performance pp. 5180-5185 Lian, Jianming Purdue Univ Sudhoff, Scott Purdue Univ Zak, Stanislaw H Purdue Univ 16:20-16:40 FrC15.2 Estimation of Model Uncertainties in Closed-Loop Systems pp. 5186-5191 Niemann, Henrik Tech. Univ. of Denmark Poulsen, Niels Kj lstad Tech. Univ. of Denmark 16:40-17:00 FrC15.3 Integral Controllability and Integrity for Uncertain Systems pp. 5192-5197 


H‰ggblom, Kurt E bo Akademi Univ 17:00-17:20 FrC15.4 Optimal Timing of Control Law Updates for Unstable Systems with Continuous Control pp. 5198-5203 Gustafson, Eric Univ. of Michigan Scheeres, Daniel The Univ. of Michigan 17:20-17:40 FrC15.5 Network-Based Robust H_infty Control of Continuous-Time Systems with Uncertainty pp. 5204-5209 Zhu, Xun-Lin Northeastern Univ Yang, Guang-hong Northeastern Univ  FrC16 Cascade I \(C Spacecraft Control II Lecture Session Chair: Su, Chun-Yi Concordia Univ Co-Chair: Ghose, Debasish Indian Inst. of Science 16:20-16:40 FrC16.2 Time Optimal Attitude Control for a Rigid Body pp. 5210-5215 Lee, Taeyoung Univ. of Michigan Leok, Melvin Purdue Univ McClamroch, N. Harris Univ. of Michigan 16:40-17:00 FrC16.3 A Novel Application of an Extended State Observer for High Performance Control of NASAís HSS Flywheel pp. 5216-5221 Alexander, B.X.S Cleveland State Univ Rarick, Richard Cleveland State Univ Dong, Lili Cleveland State Univ 17:20-17:40 FrC16.5 Perturbed Feedback Linearization of Attitude Dynamics pp. 5222-5229 Bajodah, Abdulrahman H King Abdulaziz Univ  FrC17 Whidbey Observers for Nonlinear Systems Lecture Session Chair: Celikovsky, Sergej Acad. of Science Co-Chair: Subbarao, Kamesh The Univ. of Texas, Arlington 16:00-16:20 FrC17.1 Discrete-Time Mixed H2/H-Infinity Nonlinear Filtering pp. 5230-5235 Aliyu, M. D. S Concordia Univ Boukas, El-Kebir Ec. Pol. de Montreal 16:20-16:40 FrC17.2 A Minimal Dimension Observer for Global Frequency Estimation pp. 5236-5241 Carnevale, Daniele Univ. di Roma Astolfi, Alessandro Imperial Coll. London and Univ. of Rome 16:40-17:00 FrC17.3 Time Scaling of a Multi-Output Observer Form pp. 5242-5247 Wang, Yebin Univ. of Alberta Lynch, Alan Francis Univ. of Alberta 17:00-17:20 FrC17.4 Sliding Mode Adaptive State Observation for Time-Delay Uncertain Nonlinear Systems pp. 5248-5253 Raoufi, Reza Univ. of Alberta Zinober, Alan The Univ. of Sheffield 17:20-17:40 FrC17.5 Observer with Sample-And-Hold Updating for Lipschitz Nonlinear Systems with Nonuniformly Sampled Measurements pp. 5254-5257 Raff, Tobias Univ. of Stuttgart Allgower, Frank Univ. of Stuttgart  FrC18 Vashon I Delay Systems II Lecture Session Chair: Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila Co-Chair: Jankovic, Mrdjan Ford Res. and Advanced Engineering 16:00-16:20 FrC18.1 Semi-Algebraic Problem Approach for Stability Analysis of a Class of Nonlinear Stochastic Delay System pp. 5258-5263 Kashima, Kenji Tokyo Inst. of Tech 


16:20-16:40 FrC18.2 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Krasovskii Methodology pp. 5264-5269 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 16:40-17:00 FrC18.3 If a Retarded System Is Linearizable and Stabilizable, Then It Is Input-To-State Stabilizable pp. 5270-5275 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:00-17:20 FrC18.4 ISS Control Laws for Retarded Stabilizable Systems by Means of the Liapunov-Razumikhin Methodology pp. 5276-5281 Pepe, Pierdomenico Univ. of L' Aquila 17:20-17:40 FrC18.5 On the Zeros of Quasi-Polynomials with Single Delay pp. 5282-5286 Gumussoy, Suat The MathWorks Inc  


