978-1-4799-5458-2 ©2014 IEEE                                 927 2014 2nd International Conference on Systems and Informatics \(ICSAI 2014 A Forensics Method of Web Browsing Behavior Based on Association Rule Mining  Yiyun Zhang College of Mathematics and Computer Science, Fuzhou University Fuzhou, Fujian, China Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Network Computing and Intelligent Information Processing Fuzhou, Fujian, China Guolong Chen College of Mathematics and Computer Science, Fuzhou University Fuzhou, Fujian, China Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Network Computing and Intelligent Information Processing Fuzhou, Fujian, China   Abstract With the development of network, web forensics is becoming more and more important due to the rampant cybercrime. In this paper, a forensics method of web browsing behavior based on association rule mining is presented. The method aims at providing the necessary data support to build the behavior pattern library for investigation. The records of the userís browsing history are collected to be analyzed. The obtained original data are pretreated to transactional data which are suitable for association rule mining. Frequent browsing time and frequent web browsing sequences are obtained from the transactional data by Apriori algorithm. The mining results are helpful for identification and recognition of anonymous or suspicious web browsing behavior patterns Keywords-forensics investigation; web log mining; firefox browsing behavior patterns; association rule minings; apriori algorithm;  frequent  itemset I   I NTRODUCTION  With the rapid development of web technology, more and more people go online for information, transactions and doing other business activities. Web history data contain a lot of userís view information and is helpful for computer forensics analysis The cyber world provides a convenient platform for criminals to conduct their illegal activities. Web browser is one of the most commonly used tools that is used to getting information to help cybercrimes. The key part of network forensics is to collect the various sources of digital evidence The browser retains the user's browsing time, URL and other log information. In the web browser forensics, to analyze these logs can find some non-direct found browser behaviors of some computer users [1   Browser behavior analysis techniques have received some attention in recent cyber forensic investigation cases [2   Statistics show that there is a pattern on the site activities of most users  I t co nt ai ns m a ny r e pe t i t i v e m o ve m e nt s i n  t h e  long run, and it shows some unique patterns and trends Searching for a few weeks or even months of access history of a single client, web log mining can discover some information about these unique patterns and trends [4  T h e pu rp os e of  w e b  browsing behavior pattern mining is to provide behavioral pattern library for identification and recognition of anonymous or suspicious web browsing behavior patterns to assist in forensic  This paper presents a forensics method of web browsing behavior based on association rule mining to assist investigation of the case. How to get the user's history data of the access content, access frequency and access time, and how to use association rule mining techniques to process the user's web browsing history are mentioned in this paper II  R ELATED W ORKS  Data of cyber crime cases provide a new and appropriate auxiliary information for the detection. However, due to the data volume, the diversity of the data structure and other characteristics, analysis of the data was difficult in the past. It drew helpful information on the case manually from browsing history information. Forensics officers transformed the data into an organized database, and used criminal network analysis tools to evaluate the organized data Currently, some companies and organizations have issued their own web forensics tools, such as Web Historian and Forensic Tool Kit, to analyze various browsers history data These tools support most browsers, like Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox, Opera. However, and so on. However, these tools are limited to analyze the storage formats of historical data of web browser, and provide only a URL history list cookies, cached pages and other basic information. Forensics officers still need to manually analyze electronic evidence in complex information. This operation is usually very timeconsuming, and the error rate is quite high. Thus, [6 r op o s ed a framework for finding the suspects on the basis of scientific analysis of the related web browsing history sequences and links, thereby improving the convenience and reliability of the investigation process. The authors combined data mining with web log analysis to obtain relevant information to assist discovery of cybercrime, and achieved certain results Application of data mining for web log analysis has achieved remarkable results in finding customers' behavioral pattern in e-commerce [7 an d als o ach i ev e d  a l o t in f i n d i n g  learners' behavioral pattern in e-learni  T h e w e b si t e  lo g 


 928 analysis has evolved from simple statistics to data mining. Web log mining technology based on transaction was first proposed by Chen [9  fo c usi ng o n i d e n t i f y i ng use r s fr e q ue nt bro w s i ng sequences. After that, Han proposed a web log mining technology based on data cube  a co m p r e he nsi v e  m i ni ng and analysis from multiple perspectives Today, we can easily get the user's browsing history log files on any browser. Convenient source of the data and more favorable file structure, combined with increasingly sophisticated data mining techniques, make it possible to process the huge data files. In this paper, computer forensics in web browsing behavior pattern is discussed. The behavior pattern is important for the analysis of anonymous users and suspicious behavior. A behavior pattern library can be build by web browsing behavior pattern mining to help forensics III  F ORENSICS M ODEL OF W EB B ROWSING B EHAVIOR  There is a collection of suspicious web browser history in an investigation. The main objective is to extract the user's web browsing behavior patterns. In order to get the user's browsing patterns, a forensics method of web browsing behavior based on association rule mining is presented in this paper, as shown in Fig. 1 Figure 1  Forensics steps of web browser behavior In this work, the method was divided into 4 steps 1  Collection of suspected brow ser history information Collect the browser history data of suspected browser history mainly including the userís accessed website, accessed time accessed method and the page classification. The original data implie the userís web browsing information 2  Data preprocessing Convert the data form into the suitable data form for mining association rules. This step provides the interface to the data pattern mining layer. The purpose of this method is to get userís browsing behavior patterns by data mining. Therefore, the data format should be suitable  for mining these result   3  Mining frequently visited websites and frequent web browsing sequence Use association rule mining algorithm to process the preprocessed data and to get the user's frequently visited websites and frequently browsing URLs sequences Obtaining the frequent item sets is the main objective in this step. The frequently visited websites reflect the user's point of interest, and the frequent web browsing sequence could be seen as one of the user's browsing patterns 4  Contribution to build behavior pattern library Case analysis usually needs to know the suspectsí behavior patterns It is important to build behavior pattern library. A variety of computer behavior patterns make contribute to the behavior patterns library. Browsing behavior pattern including frequently visited websites and frequently browsing URLs sequences will become an important part of the behavior pattern library IV  P REPROCESSING U SER  S B ROWSERING D ATA  The obtaining way and the format of browse history data are different because of different types and versions of the browser. In this paper, an example in Firefox browser history data processing will be given. In order to get the userís frequently visited websites and frequent web browsing sequences to assist the building of behavior pattern library, we mainly gain the history data including access time, URLs, web page class, access type and session number. These are easy to be obtained in various browsers. After obtained, the data will be processed to the transactional data which are easily mined to get frequent item sets. Then the userís frequently visited websites and frequently browsing URLs sequences can be obtained. The main processing steps show in Fig. 2 Figure 2  Preprocessing steps of browsing data A  History Data of Firefox In order to discover the relationship between frequent browsing time and frequent web browsing sequences of the suspects, it needs to know the information about web address forward link of the web page, the time to visit the web site and the session number. The acquired data are the source of the data that are used to construct the transaction The history log of Firefox browser is stored in the SQlite database. The main history file is ìplaces.sqliteî, which is a micro database with more than one table. Among these tables table moz_places contains the visited website addresses. Table moz_historyvisits associated with table moz_places, contains the information including access time, access type and session number According to different evidentiary purposes, different information is required. The corresponding mining method is not the same either. Therefore, the data sets are different because of different purpose and methods. This paperís main idea is to get the suspectís browsing behavior patterns in a specific time period, with the purpose to extract the points of interest and browsing behavior patterns of the suspects. The obtained data set format is shown in table I. Only a small part of the obtained data are displayed 


 929 In order to know the suspect's frequently visited websites and frequent RUL sequence, we simply retained the host name of the URL. To keep the integrity of mining sequence, it needs to maintain the order of URL sequence in the mining process Class of web pages is artificial gotten from web content or roughly derived from the URL information. There may be more than one class of a website on account of different classification methods. Access type for the page indicates that the page is the start page \(Denoted by 1\ or linked from other page \(Denoted by 0 TABLE I  A CQUIRED I NFORMATION  Access Time  URL  Access Type  Class of Web 1  Class of Web 2 2014-7-14 08:12:21 bbs.jjwxc net 1 Forum Entertainment 2014-7-14 08:13:11 weibo.co m 1 Microblogging Entertainment 2014-7-14 08:13:58 5sing.kug ou.com 0 Music Entertainment 2014-7-14 08:24:14 vdisk.wei bo.com 0 Network Resources Upload and download 2014-7-14 08:33:30 pan.baidu com 0 Network Resources Upload and download  B  Construction of Transactional Database It needs to convert the obtained original data into the data suitable for association rule mining, to get the suspectís frequently visited websites and frequent browsing sequence within a certain time period by association rule mining to get frequent item sets. Here we just choice two dimensions of the acquired source data. A record of the transactional data can be denoted by a vector \(Access time, URL The time dimension is a two-dimensional vector including week and period. The two fields are the week and the time period. The week dimension is naturally divided into seven values. The seven property values are from Monday to Sunday Then one day is artificially divided into different time periods to form the time period dimension. Considering the daily routine of most people, the time period dimension is designed as follows: midnight from 0:00 to 5:00, morning from 5:00 to 8:00, forenoon from 8:00 to 12:00, noon from 12:00 to 14:00 afternoon from 14:00 to 17:00, dusk from 17:00 to 19:00 evening from 19:00 to 0:00 TABLE II  F ORMAT OF T RANSACTION S ET  Week Period URL Sequence \(Ordered   Monday Forenoon bbs.jjwxc.net pan.baidu.com bbs.jjwxc.net pan.baidu.com bbs.jjwxc.net weibo.com 5sing.kugou.com  The same continuous URLs are stored as one URL. The ultimate goal is to draw the user's frequently visited websites and frequent browsing sequences within a certain period of time. Whether a site appears once or several times in one transaction, the site counts are only plus one in the association rule mining process. So merge duplicate URLs sequence is reasonable, though it would lose some frequency information of the URL Table II shows a part of specific transaction data, which record the access time and the URL browsing sequence \(The URLs sequence is sequential\in a certain time period. This example record is a browsing sequence on Monday at forenoon V  P ATTERN A NALYSIS M ETHOD FOR B ROWSER B EHAVIOR  In this paper, we performed association rule mining on the pretreated data to get frequent item sets. The famous algorithms to find the frequent item sets include Apriori algorithm and FP-growth algorithm Apr i o r i  a l gor i t h m i s  the most classical algorithm for frequent item set mining and association rule learning over transactional databases proposed by Agrawal Al t h o ugh t h e Ap ri or i a l g o r i t h m i s not  pe r f ec t   it is easy to understand and implement. Since the experimental data sets are small in this paper, the Apriori algorithm will be used to mine frequent item sets This method proceeds by identifying the frequent individual items in the transaction database and extending them to larger and larger item sets as long as those item sets appear sufficiently often in the database. The frequent item sets determined by Apriori can be used to determine association rules which highlight general trends in the database The method was performed on the pretreated database containing transactions. Each transaction is seen as a set of items \(an item set\. Then did as the following steps 1  Given a threshold minimum support \(MinSUP The frequent item sets are subsets of at least MinSUP transactions in the database 2  Frequent subsets were extended one item at a time \(a step known as candidate generation\, and groups of candidates were tested against the data It generated candidate item sets of length K from item sets of length K-1. Then it pruned the candidates which had an infrequent sub pattern. According to the downward closure lemma, the candidate set contains all frequent K-length item sets. After that, it scaned the transaction database to determine frequent item sets among the candidates 3  The process terminated when no further successful extensions are found The data of the transaction set we obtained are threedimensional in our experiments. The userís frequent browsing time, frequent browsing sequences and the relationship between the two were drawn from the data given by the transaction set. Fig. 3 depicts the detailed steps 


 930 Two thresholds were set, frequent time dimension mining threshold minimum support \(MinSup1\ and frequent web browsing sequences threshold minimum support \(MinSup2 Figure 3  Steps of pattern analysis for browsering behavior mode We got frequent item sets of access time dimension by multidimensional association rule mining algorithm based on Apriori algorithm [12  T h e pu rp os e is t o  d r aw th e u s er s  frequent browsing time, frequent browsing sequences and the relationship between the two, so the browsing sequence in the infrequent browsing time period is not important. Therefore the items whose time period was infrequent in the transaction set would be pruned, and not involved in the next web browsing sequence mining. Then, for each frequent access time, the frequent item sets of web browsing sequences in the corresponding time period would be gotten Each personís behavior pattern on using the computer to surf the Internet or communicate with people, including web browsing behavior pattern, commonly used word sequences and other specific behaviors, can be used to form an individual behavior pattern library to assist in the identification and recognition of anonymous or suspicious web behavior pattern Mining a series of transaction records of the suspect for a period of time by association rule mining, may get the userís frequent browsing time, frequent browsing sequences and the relationship between the two in a specified time period. The mining results also make contributions to the building of the behavior pattern library VI  E XPERIMENTS AND A NALYSIS  A  Personal  Frequent Item Sets The experimental data were two studentsí web browser history in two weeks on summer vacation. Set MinSup1 = 0.3 MinSup2 = 0.6. Eighteen transaction records were constructed by the history data of student A. After the screening it left 14 records. Nineteen transaction records were constructed by the history data of student B. After the screening it left 15 records The experimental results are shown in Table III and Table IV Table III shows the mining results of student A. The first line of Table III displayed the user's frequently access time to the web. As we can see in the table, the user was often access web in the period of ìforenoonî and ìTuesdayî in the two weeks One-frequent sequences are the frequent browsing pages of student A. The results in Table III show that student A frequently visited these websites like micro blog, Jinjiang Literature City forums and some original music sites. The frequently-used network resource sharing platform was Baidu cloud platform in the two weeks. The value of the results hao.360.cnî and ìlogin.sina.com.cnî is not significant, so it should be removed in the results Frequent web browsing sequence was composed of a set of ordered URLs. Two frequent sequences in Table III indicate that there are two common browsing habits of student A. The first one is that the user visited the Jinjiang Literature City Forum in the forenoon, followed by using Baidu cloud network disk to upload or download resources. The second browsing habit is that the user accessed micro blog in the forenoon followed by visiting some original music website TABLE III  E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS OF S TUDENT A 1-Dimensional Frequent Item Sets Forenoon  support: 0.666667 Tuesday  support: 0.333333 Frequent Web Browsing Sequences 1-frequent sequences Sequence Support Forenoon weibo.com 0.857143 Forenoon 5sing.kugou.com 0.785714 Forenoon bbs.jjwxc.net 0.785714 Forenoon hao.360.cn 0.785714 Forenoon pan.baidu.com 0.714286 Forenoon login.sina.com.cn 0.642857 2- frequent sequences Forenoon weibo.com 5sing.kugou.com 0.785714 Forenoon bbs.jjwxc.net pan.baidu.com 0.642857  TABLE IV  E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS OF S TUDENT B 1-Dimensional Frequent Item Sets Evening  support: 0.736842 Frequent Web Browsing Sequences 1-frequent sequences Sequence Support Evening www.youku.com 0.866667 Evening blog.csdn.net 0.8 Evening movie.douban.com 0.733333 Evening movie.youku.com 0.733333 Evening www.csdn.net 0.666667 Evening www.baidu.com 0.666667 2-frequent sequences Evening blog.csdn.net www.youku.com 0.666667 Evening www.youku.com movie.youku.com 0.733333  Everyone has their own unique behavior patterns because of the professional or interest. Student B visited CSDN Chinese software developer net\ frequently in the two weeks And student B liked seeing movies in Youku video site. It is different from student A who likes listening music. The 


 931 frequent browsing time is evening that are also different from student A. The frequent browsing sequences are also different from student A. These results of different person are always different. Therefore, the results provide support to build the behavior pattern library for investigation B  Stability of a Personís Frequent Browsing Sequence After that, in order to show the stability of the user browsing habits, we did the experiment again in different history data of student A. Sina micro disk conducted a file investigation. Micro disk users can not use the site to upload and download files during the investigation. The two weeks history records of the same user in the same browser before the investigation began were analyzed. The results in Table V illustrates that even if the file-sharing sites are different, the user's browsing patterns is consistent with the previous patterns TABLE V  E XPERIMENTAL R ESULTS BEFORE M ICRODISK I NVESTIGATION  1-Dimensional Frequent Item Sets Forenoon support: 0.705882 Frequent Web Browsing Sequences 1-frequent sequences Sequence Support Forenoon weibo.com 0.923077 Forenoon 5sing.kugou.com 0.846154 Forenoon vdisk.weibo.com 0.846154 Forenoon bbs.jjwxc.net 0.846154 Forenoon hao.360.cn 0.692308 Forenoon login.sina.com.cn 0.692308 Forenoon www.baidu.com 0.615385 2-frequent sequences Forenoon weibo.com 5sing.kugou.com 0.846154 Forenoon bbs.jjwxc.net vdisk.weibo.com 0.769231  Comparing Table III and Table V, we noticed that the user used Baidu cloud disk to upload and download files during the investigation, but used the Sina micro disk before the investigation. Thus, it can be seen that a person's browsing habits are not easy to change. The user usually shared files after he visited Jinjiang Literature City forum, no matter what network storage tools the user used. This habit has not changed, just like using the micro blog access the original music site. Both habits are his inherent browsing habits C  Effect of Different Experimental Parameters Different parameters result in different results. The selection of minimum supports has a great impact on the number of frequent item sets. The browsing history data of student B were analyzed by us. The results show in Table VI The experimental results show that under the same MinSUP1, the greater the MinSUP2 is, the less frequent web browsing sequences are obtained. But under the same MinSUP2, the relationship of the number of frequent web browsing sequences and MinSUP1 is not clear, because the items whose time period are infrequent in the transaction set are pruned. The number of frequent web browsing sequences would affect the building of behavior pattern library and would have a great impact on the later recognition and identification of the suspicious behavior TABLE VI  C OMPARISON OF T HE D IFFERENT M INIMUM S UPPORTS  MinSUP1 MinSUP2 1-Dimensional Frequent Item Sets \(Frequent Access Time Frequent Web Browsing Sequences 1-frequent sequences 2-frequent sequences 0.1 0.4 14 6 6 0.5 6 2 0.6 4 1 0.7 2 0 0.8 0 0 0.3 0.4 1 6 6 0.5 6 5 0.6 6 2 0.7 4 1 0.8 1 0  In order to better support the later pattern recognition, we need to maintain the right number of the userís frequent browsing item sets, not too many and not too few. Good minimum supports should be chosen. Comparing multiple results in Table VI, the best setting in this experiment should be MinSUP1=0.3, MinSUP2=0.6 In summary, the experiments show that the results obtained using association rule mining for each user is special and stabile. Therefore, the results can be used to build the behavior pattern library. The building of the behavior pattern library is important for the analysis of anonymous users and suspicious behavior. And the setting of minimum support will affect the number of web browsing patterns, which has a great impact on the forensic investigation. We should continue to try and contrast in order to get a better minimum support VII  C ONCLUSION  In this paper, a forensics method of web browsing behavior based on association rule mining was proposed, and the calculating steps were given. The experiments were carried out in the actual browsing history data. The experiments show a good results which is  helpful to analyze and identify patterns of criminal behavior. In the experiment, the choice of parameter values were also thought about. According to actual needs, several experiments were conducted by us. Finally, we got the general rules of parameter setting 


 932 In conclusion, this method has a good effect on helping web forensics. The experiments further validate the feasibility and rationality of this method. The setting of minimum support will affect the number of web browsing patterns, which has a great impact on the forensic investigation. However, the experiments are not perfect. For example, the experimental results were not intuitive, and the meaning of parameters is not clear enough Currently, we carried out some useful exploration and research in the behavior pattern mining. However identification of crime patterns has not been taken into account and only some initial results have we achieved. Many technologies are still implemented in the lab. There are many practical issues needed further study. There are also many problems waiting for us to solve. The construction of the behavior pattern library will gradually improve in the future studies A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research work has been supported by the National Nat ural Science Foundation of China \(No 61103175,61300103\ the Technology Innovation Platform Pro ject of Fujian Province\(No.2009J1007\ the Natural Science Fo undation of Fujian Province \(No. 2012J01265\, and the Science and Technology Project of Fuzhou\(2013-G94\ Corresponding Author: Prof. Guo Long Chen, cgl@fzu.ed u.cn R EFERENCES  1  Bennie Fei M.Sc, Jan Eloff, Martin Olivier, and Hein Venter, ìAnalysis of Web Proxy Logs,î Advances in Digital Forensicss II:IFIP Advances in Information and Communication , 2006, vol. 222, pp. 247-258 2  Cooley R, Tan P N, and Srivastava J, ìDiscovery of interesting usage patterns from web data,î Web Usage Analysis and User Profiling Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2000, pp. 163-182 3  Yu-Shiang Hung, Kuei-Ling B. Chen, Chi-Ta Yang, and Guang-Feng Deng, ìWeb usage mining for analysing elder self-care behavior patterns,î Expert Systems with Applications, 2013, vol. 40\(2\, pp. 775783 4  Abdelghani Guerbas, Omar Addam, Omar Zaarour, Mohamad Nagi Ahmad Elhajj, Mick Ridley, and Reda Alhajj, ìEffective web log mining and online navigational pattern prediction,î Knowledge-Based Systems 2013, vol.49, pp. 50-62 5  Anna Monreale, Dino Pedreschi, Ruggero G. Pensa, and Fabio Pinelli Anonymity preserving sequential pattern mining,î Artificial Intelligence and Law, 2014 6  Hosseinkhani J, Chuprat S, and Taherdoost H, ìDiscovering criminal networks by Web structure mining,î Computing and Convergence Technology \(ICCCT\, 2012 7th International Conference on. IEEE 2012, pp. 1074 - 1079 7  Chanchary F H, Haque I, and Khalid S, ìWeb usage mining to evaluate the transfer of learning in a Web-Based learning environment Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2008. WKDD 2008. First International Workshop on. IEEE, 2008, pp. 249 - 253 8  Mahajan R, S. Sodhi J, and Mahajan V, ìUsage patterns discovery from a web log in an Indian e-learning site: A case study,î Education and Information Technologies, 2014 9  Chen M S, Park J S, and Yu P S, ìData mining for path traversal patterns in a web environment,î Distributed Computing Systems, 1996 Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on. IEEE, 1996, pp 385-392   Zaiane O R, Xin M, and Han J, ìDiscovering web access patterns and trends by applying OLAP and data mining technology on web logs Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries, 1998. ADL 98 Proceedings. IEEE International Forum on. IEEE, 1998, pp. 19-29   Michal Munk, Jozef Kapusta, and Peter Svec, ìData preprocessing evaluation for web log mining: reconstruction of activities of a web visitor,î Procedia Computer Science, 2010, vol. 1\(1\, pp. 2273-2280   Micheline Kamber, Jiawei Han, and Jenny Y. Chiang, ìMetarule-Guided mining of multi-dimensional association rules using data cubes,î Proc 3rd International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Aug. 1997, pp. 207-210   Rakesh Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, and Arun Swami, ìMining association rules between sets of items in large databases,î  ACM SIGMOD Record, 1993, vol. 22, pp. 207-216   Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Sant, ìFast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules,î IBM A1maden Research Center, 1995, pp. 154-164   


VI Tanbeer, S. K., Ahmed, C. F., Jeong, B.-S., & Lee, Y.-K, \215Sliding window-based frequent pattern mining over data streams,\216 Information Sciences, 179\(22\, pp. 3843\2053865, 2009 9 Chang, J., & Lee, W. S, \215Finding recently frequent itemsets adaptively over online transactional data streams,\216 Information Systems, 31\(8\, pp. 849\205869, 2006 4 Agrawal, R., & Srikant, R, \215Fast algorithms for mining association rules,\216 In Proc. VLDB int. conf. very large databases \(pp. 487\205 499\, 1994 3 Tsai, P. S. M, \215Mining frequent itemsets in data streams using the weighted sliding window model,\216 Expert Systems with Applications, 36\(9\, pp. 11617\20511625, 2009  minimum change threshold Y. Chi, H. Wang, P. S. Yu and R. R. Muntz. Catch the moment maintaining closed frequent itemsets over a data stream sliding window. In KAIS, 10\(3\: pp. 265-294, 2006 6 V. kumar, S. satapathy, \215A review on algorithms for mining frequent itemsets over data stream,\216 in ijarcsse V3 I4, 2013 8 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK  Considering the continuousness of a data stream, the traditional methods or techniques for finding frequent itemsets in conventional data mining methodology may not be valid in a data stream. This is because we cannot consider whole data and must identify when a data becomes obsolete or invalid As the old information of a data stream may be no longer useful or possibly invalid at present.  In order to support various requirements of mining data stream, the mining window or the interesting recent range of a data stream needs not to be defined static but must be flexible. Based on this range, a data mining method can be able to identify when a transactions becomes stale or needs to be disregarded  In this paper, we have investigated the problem of mining frequent itemset over data stream using flexible size sliding window model and proposed a new algorithm for this problem. The size of sliding window is adaptively adjusted based on the amount of observed concept change in the underlying properties of incoming data stream. The size of window enlarges or increase when there is no significant amount of change observed. While the window size reduced or decrease when there is considerable amount of concept change or significant change in set of frequent itemsets occurs Based on the value of given by user, the size of window is being controlled. After every pane insertion the set of frequent itemsets are updated and value of concept change is calculated. If the value exceeds the given minimum change threshold the window gets smaller by deleting all the obsolete information before a point defined called checkmark  Experimental results shows that our algorithm tracks the concept change efficiently while mining data stream and is more adaptive to recent frequent itemsets than fixed size sliding window models or time fading window models. For the future work, we are trying to enhance the performance by using fuzzy sets for minimum change threshold value so that the values like low, medium, high and very high instead of certain value between ranges of 0 to 1 R EFERENCES  1                    H. Li, S. Lee, and M. Shan, \215An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Itemsets over the Entire History of Data Streams\216, In Proc. of First International Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in Data Streams, 2004  F. Nori, M. Deypir, M. Sadreddini, \215A sliding window based algorithm for frequent closed itemset mining over data streams\216 journal of system and software, 2012  Zaki, M. \(2000\. Scalable algorithms for association mining. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 12\(3\, 372\205 390  Woo H. J., & Lee, W. S. \(2009\. estMax: Tracing maximal frequent item sets instantly over online transactional data streams IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 21\(10 1418\2051431  Mozafari B, Thakkar H, Zaniolo C, \215Verifying and mining patterns from large windows over data streams,\216 In Proc. Int. conf. ICDE pp. 179-188, 2008  Koh, J.- L., & Lin, C.- Y, \215Concept shift detection for frequent itemsets from sliding window over data streams\216, lecture notes in computer science: Database systems for advanced applications \(pp 334\205348\ DASFAA Int. Workshops, Springer-Verlag.2009  Han, J., Cheng, H., Xin, D., & Yan, X. Frequent pattern mining Current status and future directions. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 15\(1\, pp.  55\20586, 2007 5 C. Giannella, J. Han, J. Pei, X. Yan, and P. S. Yu. Mining frequent patterns in data streams at multiple time granularities. In Kargupta et al.: Data Mining: Next Generation Challenges and Future Directions, MIT/AAAI Press, 2004 7 2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference IACC 510 J. H. Chang and W. S. Lee. estWin: Adaptively Monitoring the Recent Change of Frequent Itemsets over Online Data Streams. In Proc. of CIKM, 2003  J. Yu, Z. Chong, H. Lu, and A. Zhou. False Positive or False Negative: Mining Frequent Itemsets from High Speed Transactional Data Streams. In Proc. of VLDB, 2004      Aggarwal, C, \215A framework for diagnosing changes in evolving data streams,\216 In Proc. ACM SIGMOD int. conf. on management of data \(pp. 575\205586\ 2003 2 Manku, G. S., & Motwani, R. Approximate frequency counts over data streams. In Proc. VLDB int. conf. very large databases \(pp 346\205357\ 2002  


002 
                          
R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases. In Proc. VLDB, pages 487Ö499, 1994 2 R. J. Bayardo, Jr. Efficiently mining long patterns from databases SIGMOD Rec., pages 85Ö93, 1998 3 M. Zaki, S. Parthasarathy, M. Ogihara, and W. Li. Parallel algorithms for discovery of association rules. Data Min. and Knowl. Disc., pages 343Ö373, 1997 4 J. Dean and S. Ghemawat. MapReduce: Simplified data processing on large clusters. In Proc. OSDI. USENIX Association, 2004 5 Apache hadoop. http://hadoop.apache.org/, 2013 6 Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber. Data Mining, Concepts and Techniques. Morgan Kaufmann, 2001 7 M. Zaharia, M. Chowdhury, T. Das, A. Dave, J. Ma, M. McCauley M. Franklin, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica. Resilient distributed datasets A fault-tolerant abstraction for in-memory cluster computing Technical Report UCB/EECS-2011-82, EECS Department University of California, Berkeley, Jul 2011 8 M. Zaharia, M. Chowdhury, M. J. Franklin, S. Shenker, and I. Stoica Spark: Cluster Computing with Working Sets. In HotCloud, 2010 9 J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin: Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In: Proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 29\(2\:1-12, 2000 10 M. J. Zaki. Parallel and distributed association mining: A survey IEEE Concurrency, pages 14Ö25, 1999 11 J. Li, Y. Liu, W.-k. Liao, and A. Choudhary. Parallel data mining algorithms for association rules and clustering. In Intl. Conf. on Management of Data, 2008 12 E. Ozkural, B. Ucar, and C. Aykanat. Parallel frequent item set mining with selective item replication. IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib Syst., pages 1632Ö1640, 2011 13 B.-H. Park and H. Kargupta. Distributed data mining: Algorithms systems, and applications. 2002 14 L. Zeng, L. Li, L. Duan, K. Lu, Z. Shi, M. Wang, W. Wu, and P. Luo Distributed data mining: a survey. Information Technology and Management, pages 403Ö409, 2012 15 Li L. & Zhang M. \(2011\. The Strategy of Mining Association Rule Based on Cloud Computing. Proceeding of the 2011 International Conference on Business Computing and Global Informatization BCGIN è11\. Washington, DC, USA, IEEE: 475- 478 16 Li N., Zeng L., He Q. & Shi Z. \(2012\. Parallel Implementation of Apriori Algorithm Based on MapReduce. Proc. of the 13th ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking and Parallel & Distributed Computing SNPD è12\. Kyoto, IEEE: 236 Ö 241 17 Lin M., Lee P. & Hsueh S. \(2012\. Apriori-based Frequent Itemset Mining Algorithms on MapReduce. Proc. of the 16th International Conference on Ubiquitous Information Management and Communication \(ICUIMC è12\. New York, NY, USA, ACM: Article No. 76 18 Yang X.Y., Liu Z. & Fu Y. \(2010\. MapReduce as a Programming Model for Association Rules Algorithm on Hadoop. Proc. of the 3rd International Conference on Information Sciences and Interaction Sciences \(ICIS è10\. Chengdu, China, IEEE: 99 Ö 102 19 S. Hammoud. MapReduce Network Enabled Algorithms for Classification Based on Association Rules. Thesis, 2011 20 Synthetic Data Generation Code for Associations and Sequential Patterns. Intelligent Information Systems, IBM Almaden Research Center http://www.almaden.ibm.com/software/quest/Resources/index.shtml 21 C.L. Blake and C.J. Merz. UCI Repository of Machine Learning Databases. Dept. of Information and Computer Science, University of California at Irvine, CA, USA. 1998 http://www.ics.uci.edu/mlearn/MLRepository.html 22 HadoopApriori. https://github.com/solitaryreaper/HadoopApriori 2 3 H.V. Nguyen, E. Muller, K. Bohm. 4S: Scalable Subspace Search Schema Overcoming Traditional Apriori Processing. 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data. 2013 24 S. Moens, E. Aksehirli and Goethals. Frequent Itemset Mining for Big Data. University Antwerpen, Belgium. 2013 IEEE International Conference on Big Data. 2013 25 Y. Bu et al . HaLoop: E cient iterative data processing on large clusters. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, 3\(1-2\:285Ö296 2010 26 Frequent itemset mining dataset repository. http://fimi.us.ac.be/data 2004   
002 
Our experiments show that YAFIM is about 18 faster than Apriori algorithms implemented in MapReduce framework Furthermore, we can achieve a better performance in both sizeup and speedup for different datasets. In addition, we also evaluated YAFIM for medical application and revealed that YAFIM outperforms MRApriori about 25 speedup  A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work is funded in part by China NSF Grants \(No 61223003\, and the USA Intel Labs University Research Program R EFERENCES  1 
002 
1671 


