Causal Possibility Model Structures Lawrence J Mazlack Computer Science University of Cincinnati Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0030 mazlack@uc.edu Abslracl Causality occupies a position of cen trality in human reasoning It plays an essential role in commonsense human decision-making De termining causes has been a tantalizing goal throughout human history Proper sacrifices to the gods were thought to bring rewards failure to make the proper observations to led to disaster Today data mining holds the promise uf extracting unsus pected information from very large databases The most common 
methods build association rules In many ways the interest in association rules is that they offer the promise or illusion of causal or at least predictive relationships However asso ciation rules only calculate a joint occurrence fre quency they do not express a causal relationship If causal relationships could be discouvered it would be very useful This paper explores the pos sible representation of causality drawn from large data sets I INTRODUCTION Causality occupies a position of centrality in common sense human reasoning It plays an essential role in human decision-making 
by providing a basis for choosing an action that may lead to a desired result Considerable effort has been spent examining causation Philosophers mathematicians computer scientists cognitive psychologists psychologists and others have explored questions of causation beginning at least three thousand years ago Determining causality entails recognizing causal relation ships e.g a causes to happen. Whether causality can be recognized at all has been a speculation for thousands of years At the same time in our daily lives we rely on the commonsense observation that causality exists The computa tional concern is bow to recognize and represent common 
sense causal relationships Data mining is an advanced tool for managing large masses of data Data mining is secondmy analysis It is a xconm analysis because the data were not collected to answer qnes tions now posed Secondary analysis of previously collected data eliminates the possibility of experimentally varying the data to identify causal relationships There are several different data mining products The most common are conditional rules or association rules Condi tional rules are most often drawn from induced trees while association mles are most often learned from tabular data Of 
these, the most common data mining product is association rules for example Conditional rule IF Age  20 THEN Income  10,000 with {belief  0.8 Association rule Customers who buy beer and sausage also tend to buy mustard with confidence  0.8 support  0.15 At first glance these structures seem to imply a causal or cause-effect relationship For example A customer's purchase of both sausage and beer the customer to also buy 
mustard In fact when typically developed, association rules do not describe causality Also the strength of dependency may be very different from a respective association value. All that can be said with certainty is that associations describe the strength of CO-occurrences Sometimes the relationship might be causal; for example if someone eats salty peanuts and then drinks beer, there is probably a causal relationship On the other hand if a dog barks in Kabul and a cat meows in Beijing there is probably not a causal relationship Causal relationships exist in the commonsense world If someone fails to stop 
at a red light and there is an automobile accident it can be said that the failure to stop was the accident's cause. Another way to think of causal relationships is counterfactually For example if a driver dies in an accident it might be said that had the accident not occu1Ted they would still be alive of false causal recognition For example a coach may win a game when wearing a particular pair of socks then always wear the same socks to games. More interesting is the occa sional false causality between music and 
motion For exam ple Lillian Schwartz developed a series of computer generated images sequenced them and attached a sound track usually Mozart While there were some connections between one image and the next, the music was not scored to the images however on viewing them the music appeared to be con nected. All of the connections were observer supplied A common approach to recognizing causal relationships is by manipulating variables through experimentation how to Complicating causal recognition are the many cases 0-7803-7810-5/03/517.00 WO03 IEEE 684 The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 


accomplish causal discouvery in purely observational data is not solved Observational data is the most likely to be avail able for data mining analysis Algorithms for discouvery in observational data oft  en use correlation and probability independence to find possible causal relationships If two variables are statistically inde pendent it can be asserted that they are not causally related The reverse is not necessarily true Real world events are often affected by a large number of potential factors. For example with plant growth many fac tors such as temperature chemicals in the soil types of crea tures present etc can all affect plant growth What is un known is what causal factors will or will not be present in the data and how many of the underlying causal relation ships can be discouvered among observational data Some define causeeffect relationships as When a occurs 3 occurs. This is inconsistent with our commonsense understanding of causality A simple environment example When a hammer hits a bottle the bottle usually breaks A complex environment example When a plant receives water it usually grows An important part of data mining is understanding whether there is a relationship between data items Sometimes data items may occur in pairs but may not have a deterministic relationship; for example a grocery store shopper may buy both bread and milk at the same time Most of the time the milk purchase is not caused by the bread purchase  nor is the bread purchase caused by the milk purchase  Altematively if someone buys strawberries this may caus ally affect the purchase of whipped cream Some people who buy strawbemes want whipped cream with them of these the desire for the whipped cream varies So we have a conditional primary effect whipped cream purchase modified by a secon dary effect desire How to represent all of this is open A largely unexplored aspect of mined rules is how to deter mine when one event causes another Given that a and 3 am variables and there appears to be a statistical covariability between a and p is this covariability a causal relation More generally when is any pair wise relationship causal Differ entiation between covariabilty and causality is difficult Some problems with discouvering causality include Adequately defining a causal relation Representing possible causal relations Computing causal strengths Missing attributes that have a causal effect Distinguishing between association and causal values Inferring causes and effects from the representation Beyond data mining causality is a fundamentally interest ing area for machine based systems to investigate It is an area where interest waxes and wanes in part because of defmi tional and complexity difficulties Activities in both philoso phy and psychology Glymour 20011 overlap and illuminate computationally focused work 2 CAUSALITY Centuries ago in their quest to unravel the future mystics aspired to decipher the cries of birds the pattems of the stars and the garbled utterances of oracles Kings and generals would offer precious rewards for the information soothsayers furnished. Today, though predictive methods are different from those of the ancient world the knowledge that dependency recognition attempts to provide are highly valued From weather reports to stock market prediction and from medical prognoses to social forecasting superior insights about the shape of things to come are prized [Halpem 20001 Democritus, the Greek philosopher once said 223Everything existing in the universe is the fruit of chance and necessity.\224 This seems self-evident Both randomness and causation are in the world. Democritus used a poppy example Whether the poppy seed lands on fertile soil or on a barren rock is chance If it takes root however it will grow into a poppy not a geranium or a Siberian Husky [Lederman 19931 Beyond computational complexity and holistic knowledge issues there appear to be inherent limits on whether causality can be determined. Among them are Quantum Physics In particular Heisenberg\222s uncertainty principle Knowledge of the world might never be complete because we as observers, are integral parts of what we observe Godel\222s Theorem: which showed in any logical formulation of arithmetic that there would always be statements whose validity was indeterminate This strongly suggests that there will always be inherently unpredictable aspects of the future The Turing Halting Problem Turning as well as Church showed that any problem solvable by a step-by-step-pme dure could be solved using a Turing machine However there are many routines where you cannot ascertain if the program will take a finite or an infinite number of steps Thus there is a curtain between what can and cannot be known mathematically Chaos Theory Chaotic systems appear to be deterministic but are computationally irreducible If nature is chaotic at its core it might be fully deterministic yet wholly unpre dictable [Halpem, 2000 1391 Space Time The malleability of Einstein\222s space time which has the effect that what is 223now\224 and 223later\224 is local to a particular observer another observer may have contra dictory views Arithmetic Indeterminism Arithmetic itself has random aspects that introduce uncertainty as to whether equations may be solvable Chatin 11987 19901 discovered that Dio phantine equations may or may not have solutions depend ing on the parameters chosen to form them Whether a pa rameter leads to a solvable equation appears to be random Diophantine equations represent well-defined problems emblematic of simple arithmetic procedures 685 The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 


Given determinism\222s potential uncertainty and imprecision we might throw up out hands in despair It may well be that a precise and complete knowledge of causal events is uncertain On the other hand we have a common sense belief that causal effects exist in the real world If we can develop models tolerant of imprecision it would be useful. Perhaps the tools found in soft computing may be useful 2.1 Nature Of Causal Relationshipa The term causulily is used here in the everyday informal sense There are several strict definitions that are not wholly compatible with each other The formal definition used in this paper is that if one thing occurs because of another thing we say that there is a dependent or causal relationship W Figure I Dingrom indicating that a is cmsdy dcgendent on p Some questions about causal relationships that would be desirable to answer are To what degree does a cause S\222 Is the value for 266 sensitive to a small change in the value of a Does the relationship always hold in time and in every situa tion If it does not hold, can the particular situation when it does hold be discouvered How should we describe the relationship between items that are causally related probability possibility Can we say that there is a causal strength between two items causal strength representing the degree of causal influence that items have over each other 1s it possible that there might be mutual dependencies i.e a 266as well as 266 a Is it possible that they do so with different strengths They can be described as shown in Figure 2 where Sjj represents the strength of the causal rela tionship from i to j  For example a could be short men and 266could be tall women If SqP meant the romantic attrac tion that was caused in short men by the sight of tall women it might be that  S  On the other hand some would argue that causality should be completely asymmetric and if it appears that items have mutual influ ences it is because there is another cause that causes both A problem with this idea is that it can force to eventual regres sion to a first cause whether this is true or not it is not useful for common sense representation It would seem that if there are causal relationships in mar ket basket data, there would often be imbalanced dependencies For example if a customer first buys strawberries there may be a reasonably good chance that she will then buy whipped cream Conversely if she first buys whipped cream the subsequent purchase of strawberries may be less likely It is potentially interesting to discouver the absence of a causal relationship for example discouvering the lack of a causal relationship in drug treatment\222s of disease If some potential cause can be eliminated then attention can become more focused on other potentials Prediction is not the same as causality Recognizing whether a causal relationship existed in the past is not the same as predicting that in the future one thing will occur be cause of another thing For example knowing that a was a causal \(or deterministic factor forp is different than saying whenever there is a p will deterministically occur or even probabilistically occur to a degree 1 There may be other necessary factors Causal necessity is not the same thing as causal suffi ciency; for example in order for event 6 to occur events a,,\266,p need to occur We can say that a by itself is neces sary but not sufficient Part of the difficulty of recognizing causality comes from identifying relevant data Some data might be redundant some irrelevant some are more important than others Data can have a high dimensionality with only a relatively few utilitar ian dimensions i.e data may have a higher dimensionality than necessary to fully describe a situation In a large collec tion of data complexity may be unknown Dimensionality reduction is an important issue in learning from data A causal discovery method cannot transcend the prejudices of analysts Often, the choice of what data points to include and which to leave out which type of curve to fit linear exponential periodic etc what time increments to use years decades centuries etc and other model aspects depend on the instincts and preferences of researchers It may be possible to determine whether a collection of data is random or deterministic using attractor sets from Chaos theory [Packard 19801 A low dimensional attractor set would indicate regular periodic behavior and would indicate determi nate behavior On the other hand high dimensional results would indicate random behavior 2.2 Types Of Causality There are at least three ways that things may be said to be related 221Coincidental Two things happen to describe the same object Functional There is a generative relationship Casual One thing causes another thing to happen There are 221Chaining In this case there is a temporal chain of events A,,A  A which terminates on A To what degree ifany does Ai i=l  n-I cause A A spe cial case of this is a backup mechanism or a preempted alternative Suppose there is a chain of casual depd and have no determinative relationship between them at least four types of causality 686 The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 


ence A causing A suppose that if A does not occur A still occurs now caused by the altemative cause 5 which only occurs if A does not Conjunction Confluence In this case there is a Con fluence of events A  A and a resultant event B To what degree if any did or does Ai cause B A special case of this is redwhu causation Say that either A or A can cause B and, both A and A occur simultaneously What can be said to have caused B Network A network of events Preventive One thing prevents another e.g She pre Recognizing and defining causality is difficult Causal claims have both a direct and a subjunctive complexity Spines 20001  they are associated with claims about what did happen or what did not happen or has not happened yet or what would have happened if some other circumstance had been otherwise The following show some of the difficulties Example I Simultaneous Plant Death My rose bushes and my neighbor\222s rose bushes both die Did the death of one cause the other to die Probably not although the deaths are associated 221Example 2 Drought There has been a drought My rose bushes and my neighbor\222s rose bushes both die Did the drought cause both rose bushes to die Most likely Example 3 Trajfic My friend calls me up on the telephone and asks me to drive over and visit her. While driving over I ignore a stop sign and drive through an intersection Another driver hits me I die Who caused my death  Me  The other driver  My friend  The traffic engineer who designed the intersection  Fate Example 4 Umbrella A store owner doubles her dver tising for umbrellas Her sales increase by 20 What caused the increase  Advertising  Weather  Fashion  Chance Example 5 Poison Chance increase without causation Fred and Ted both want Jack dead Fred poisons Jack\222s soup and Ted poisons his coffee. Each act increases Jack\222s chance of dying Jack eats the soup but feeling rather unwell leaves the coffee, and dies later Ted\222s act raised the chance of Jack\222s death but was not a cause of it Exactly what makes a causal relationship is open to vary ing definition. However, causal asymmetries often play a part Hausman 19981 Some claimed asymmetries are Time order Effects do not come before effects at least as locally observed Probabilistic independence Causes of an event are probabi listically independent of another while effects of a cause are probabilistically dependent on one another Counterfactual dependency Effects counterfactually depend on their causes while causes do not counterfactually depend venfed the catastrophe on their effects and effects of a common cause do not coun terfactually depend on each other Over determination Effects over determine their causes while causes rarely over determine their effects Fixiryr Causes are  223fixed\224 no later than their effects Connection dependency If one were to break the connection between cause and effect. only the effect might be affected 2.3 Classical Dependence Statistical dependence is interesting in this context because it is often confused with causality Such reasoning is not correct Two events E,;E may be statistical dependent be cause both have a common cause Eo But this does not mean that E is the cause of E For example, lack of rain Eo may cause my rose bush to die E as well as that of my neighbor E This does not mean that the dying of my rose has caused the dying of my neighbor\222s rose or conversely However the two events E E2 are statistically dependent A causality relationship between two events E and E2 will always give rise to a degree of statistical dependence between them The converse is not true A statistical dependence be tween two events may but need not indicate a causal rela tionship between them There is a positive correlation if However all this tells us that it is an interesting relationship It does not tell us if there is a causal relationship 2.4 Probabilistic Causation prob\(q,b  prob\(q prob\(b Probabilistic Causation designates a group of philosophical theories that aim to characterize the relationship between cause andeffect using the tools of probability theory A pri mary motivation is the desire for a theory of causation that does not presuppose physical determinism The success of quantum mechanics and to a lesser extent other theories using probability brought some to question determinism Some philosophers became interested in devel oping causation theories that do not presuppose determinism One notable feature has been a commitment to indeter minism, or rather a commitment to the view that an adequate analysis of causation must apply equally to deterministic and indeterministic worlds Mellor I9951 argues that indeterministic causation is consistent with the connotations of causation Hausman  on the other hand defends the view that in indeterministic settings there is strictly speak ing no indeterministic causation but rather deterministic causation of probabilities Following Suppes I9701 and Lewis  the approach has been to replace the thought that causes are sufficient for or determine their effects with the thought that a cause need only raise the probability of its effect This shift of attention raises the issue of what kind of probability analysis if any is up to the job of underpinning indeterministic causation 687 The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 


3 REPRESENTATION Causal representation is an underdeveloped question The representation used constrains and supports the methods that can be used Several representations have been proposed 3.1 Graphs Some authors have suggested that sometimes it is possible to recognize causal relations through the use of directed graphs \(digraphs\[Pearl 19911 Spirtes 19931 In a digraph the vertices correspond to the variables and each directed edge corresponds to a causal influence Diagraphs are not cyclic the same node in the graph cannot be visited twice An exam ple is shown in Figure 3 Pearl 2000 and Spirtes 2001 use a form of digraphs called DAGS for representing causal relationships 3 Figure 3 a An example digraph DAG b ample insranrioting a drinking alcohol education J Salary Figure 4 Cyclic cnusol relorionships Sometimes cycles exist For example a person\222s family medical history influences both whether they are depressive and whether they will have some diseases. Drinking alcohol combined with the genetic predisposition to certain disease in fluences whether the person has a particular disease which then influence depression which in tum may influence the person\222s drinking habits Figure 4 shows the cyclic digraph for this example Developing directed acyclic graphs from data is computa tionally expensive The amount of work increases geometri cally with the number of attributes For constraint based methods, the reader is directed to Pearl 2000 Spirtes ZOOO Silverstein 1998 and Cooper 1997 For Bayesian discou very the reader is directed to Heckerman I9951 and Geiger 119951 Quantitatively describing the relationships between the nodes can be complex One possible general model is an extension of what can be found in Rehder 2002 shown in Figure 5 The state value is 1/0 as an event either happens or does not E m Fizure 5 Rehder\222s quanrirative relarimship between digraph nodes c  PfD m  rhe probabiliry rhr when D iF presenl the causal mechanism brings obour E b  the probobiliry rhal some other unspecified causal mechanism brings abour E b Figure 6 Figure 5 applied ion 223bird\224 cmmple 3.2 Probabilify And Decision Trees Various forms of root initiated tree-like graphs have been suggested Shafer 19961 Among them are Probability trees: Have a probability for every event in every situation and hence a probability distribution and expected value for every variable in every situation 221Decision trees Trees in which branching probabilities are supplied for some while others are unknown An example of these is Martingale trees A tree is a digraph starting from one vertice, the root In this case, the vertices represent situations Each edge repre sents a particular variable with a corresponding probability Time ordering of the variables is represented via the levels in the tree The higher a variable is in the tree the earlier it is in time This can become ambiguous for networked repre sentations i.e., when a node can have more than two parents and thus two competing paths and their imbedded time se quences By evaluating the expectation and probability changes among the situations or nodes in the tree one can decide whether the two variables are causally related 3.3 First Order Logic Hobbs 2000 uses first-order logic to represent causal rela tionships One difficulty with this approach is that the epre sentation does not allow for any gray areas. For example if an event occurred when the wind was blowing east how could a wind blowing east-northeast be accounted for The causality inferred may be incorrect due to the representation\222s rigidity Nor can first order logic deal with dependencies that arc only sometimes true. For example sometimes when the wind blows hard a tree falls This kind of sometimes event description can possibly be statistically described Altema tively, a qualitative fuzzy measure might be applied Another problem is recognizing differing effect strengths For example if some events in the causal complex are more 688 The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 


strongly tied to the effect Also it is not clear how a rela tionship such as the following would be represented a causes j3 some of the time j3 causes a some of the time other times there is no causal relationship 4 EPILOGUE Causality occupies a central position in human common sense reasoning In particular it plays an essential role in common sense human decision-making by providing a basis for choosing an action that is likely to lead to a desired result Whether recognizing causality can be done at all has been a speculation for thousands of years At the same time in our daily lives we make the conimonsense observation that causality exists Carrying this commonsense observation further, the concem is how to computationally recognize a causal relationship Data mining holds the promise of extracting unsuspected information from very large databases Methods have been developed to build association rules Association rules indi cate the strength of association of two or more data attributes In many ways the interest in association rules is that they offer the promise or illusion of causal or at least predictive relationships However association rules only calculate a joint Occurrence frequency not causality There are several open questions across all types of association rules A funda mental question is determining whether or not recognizing an association can,lead to recognizing a causal relationship A particular interest is in determining when causality can be said to be stronger or weaker Either in the case where the causal strength may be different in two independent relation ships or where in the case where two items each have a causal relationship on the other Causality is a central concept in many branches~of science and philosophy In a,way the term causality is like truth  a word with many meanings and facets Some of the defini tions are extremely precise Some of them involve a style of reasoning best be supported by fuzzy logic Defining and representing causal and potentially causal rela tionships is necessary to using machine-based methods A graph consisting of a collection of directed edges will most likely not offer a sufficiently rich representation Representa tions that embrace some aspects of imprecision are necessary A deep question is when anything can be said to cause any thing else And if it does, what is the nature of the causality There is a strong motivation to attempt causality discouvery in association rules The research concern is how to best ap proach the recognition of causality or non-causality in asso ciation rules Or if there is to recognize causality as long as association rules are the result of secondary analysis REFERENCES 0 Chatin I 9871 Algorithmic Information Theory Cambridge University Press Cambridge United Kingdom G Chatin I9901 A Random Walk In Arithmetic New Scientist 125 n 1709 March 1990 44-66 G Cooper I9971 A Simple Constraint-Based Algorithm for Efficiently Mining Observational For Causal Relationships in Doto Mining and Knowledge Discouvery v 1 n 2,203-224 D Geiger D Heckerman I9951 A Characterization Of The Dirichlet Distribution With Application To Leaming Bayesian Networks in Pro ceedings of the 11 Conference on Uncerrainry in AI Montreal Quebec 196-207. August C. Glymour, G Cooper eds 119991 Computation Causation and Discou very AAA1 Press Menlo Park. California C Glymaur 2001 The Mind's Arrows Bayes Nets And Graphical Causal Models In Psychology MIT Press Cambridge Massachusetts P Halpern ZOO01 The Pursuit Of Destiny Perseus Cambridge Massachusetts D Hausman I9981 Causal Asymmetries Cambridge University Press Cambridge. United Kingdom D Heckerman C Meek G Cooper I9971 A Bayesian Approach To Causal Discovery Microsaft Technical Report MSR-TR-97-05 Hume David I7481 An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding L Lederman D Teresi I9931 The God Particle If the Universe Is the Answer What Is the Question Delta New York D Lewis I9861 Causation" and "Postscripts to Causation in Philosophical Papers Volume 11 Oxford University Press Oxford 172-213 L Mazlack Tonsidekng Causality In Data Mining WSESIIEEE Multi-Conference Crete, 493-498 D H Mellor I9951 The Facts of Causation Routledge, London N Packard J Chrutchfield J Farmer R Shaw 19801 "Geometry From A Time Series Physical Review Letters v 45 n 9,712-716 1 Pearl T Vema 119911 A Theory Of Inferred Causation Principles Of Knowledge Representolion And Reasoning Proceedings Of The Second lnternorionnl Conference J Allen R Fikes E Sandewall Morgan Kaufmann p 441-452 G Shafer I9961 The Art of Causal Conjecture MIT Press Cambridge Massachusetts C Silverstein S Brin et al I9981 Scaleable Techniques For Mining Causal Structures Proceedings 1998 International Conference Very Lorge Dam Bases NY, 594-605 P Spines C Glymour R Scheines 2000 Causation Prediction and Search second edition MIT Press Cambridge, Massachusetu P Spines 200l An Anytime Algorithm for Causal Inference Pro ceedings AI and Srafistics 2001 Suppes Patrick I9701 A Probabilistic Theory of Causality North-Hol land Publishing Company Amsterdam L Zadeh Abstract Of A Lecture Presented At The Rolf Nevanil inna Collaquium. University of Helsinki reported to Fuzzy Distribution List fuzzy-mail@dbai.tuwien.ac.at August 24. 2000 689 The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 


              Fig. 22. Correctness Comparison for Dynamic Model in Beginning Period                Fig. 23. Correctness Comparison for Fixed Model in Beginning Period               Fig. 24. Correctness Comparison for Dynamic Model in Middle Period               Fig. 25. Correctness Comparison for Fixed Model in Middle Period References   H L u  Pre dicting C u stom er Be ha vior in the  Market: A Study of Rayport and Svioklas Framework," Information and Management, vol. 40 no. 1, pp. 1-10, October 2002   J. Pei, J Ha n, B  Mortaz avi-Asl and H Zhu Mining Access Pattern Efficiently from Web Logs Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pp.396-407, 2000   J. Pei, J. Ha n H Pinto W. Chen, U. Dayal, and M Hsu PrefixSpan: Mining Sequential Patterns Efficiently by Prefix_Projected Pattern Growth Proceedings for 17 th Intêl Conference on Data Engineering, pp. 215-224, 2001 4  R. Ag rawal an d R. Srik an t  Min ing Seq u e n tial Patterns,é in 11 th International Conference Data Engineering \(ICDEê95   R. Sri kant and R Agrawal Mining Seque ntial Patterns: Generalizations and Performance Improvements,é Proc.5th Intêl Conf. Extending Database Technology \(EDBTê96\17 Avignon, France, Mar. 1996    S. C h e n The Researc h of Mining Freque nt Sequential Patterns, Dissertation of Ph. D., National Central University, Taiwan, R.O.C., 2002 7 Y  Ch e n  S Ch e n  and P  Hs u   Mining Hybrid Sequential Patterns and Sequential Rules Information Systems, vol. 27, pp. 345-362, 2002 Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WIê05 0-7695-2415-X/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


 protocols with honest majority. In 19th ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing, pages 218-229, 1987   E  G u d e s  B  R o z e nber g  C o l l abo r a t i v e P r i v acy  Preserving Frequent Item Set Mining in Vertically Partitioned Databases. Proceedings of DBSec 2003: 91-104   E  G ude s  B  R o z e nbe r g  A n al y s i s o f T w o  A ppr o a c h es  for Association Rules Mining in Vertically Partitioned Databases , Proceedings of ICDM Workshop on Privacy and Security Aspects of Data Mining, Brighton, UK, November 2004   Z  H u ang  W  D u  an d B  C h en D e r i v i ng pr i v a t e  information from randomized data. In Proc. of ACM SIGMOD\22205, 2005   M  K a nt a r c i o g l u and C  C l i f t o n Pr i v ac y pr es e r v i ng  distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In The ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery DMKD'02\, June  2002  16 M  K a n t a r c i o g l u  C  C lif to n  P r iv a c y P re s e rv in g  Distributed Mining of Association Rules on Horizontally Partitioned Data. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 16\(9 1026-1037,  2004   H  K a r g upt a S  D a t t a  Q  W a ng  an d K   Si v a kum ar   On the privacy preserving properties of random data perturbation techniques. In Proc. of ICDM\22203, page 99 Washington, DC, USA, 2003. IEEE Computer Society   Y  L i nd el l  and B  P i nk as  P r i v acy pr es e r v i ng da t a  mining. In Proc. of CRYPTO\22200, pages 36\22654. SpringerVerlag, 2000  19 A  P r od r om i d i s  P  C h an  a n d S St ol f o M e t a l e a r n i n g in distributed data mining  systems: Issues and approaches chapter 3. AAAI/MIT Press, 2000   S J  R i z v i and J  R  H a r i t s a  P r i v ac y pr es e r v i ng  association rule mining. In  Proceedings of 28 th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases. VLDB, Aug. 20-23 2002    B.Rozenberg , MSc thesis, Ben-Gurion University 2003  22 J  V a id y a C  C lif to n  S e c u re  s e t i n t e r s e c tio n c a r d i n a li ty  with application to association rule mining. Journal of Computer Security 13\(4\: 593-622 \(2005  23 J  V a id y a C  C lif to n  P r iv a c y P r e s e r v in g A s s o c ia tio n  Rule Mining in Vertically Partitioned Data. In Proceedings of SIGKDD 2002, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, 2002  24 A  C  Y a o H o w  t o ge n e r a t e  a n d e x ch an ge s e cr e t s   In Proceedings of the 27th IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science pages 162-167,  1986           


Number of Processors Time \(seconds 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 1 2 4 8 Figure 9 Average execution time per node to nd frequent 3-itemsets 2-itemsets processed by each node in our four different system conﬁgurations Note that the number of candidate 2itemsets for the 1-node case is approximately the same as the average number of candidate 2-itemsets for the 2-node case This result is consistent with the observed total and average execution times for the 1-node and 2-node cases There is signiﬁcant reduction in the average number of candidate 2-itemsets processed for the 4-node and 8-node cases over the 1-node and 2-node cases This result represents the nonuniform distribution of itemsets over the local databases as well as the effective reduction of the candidate itemsets by the Inverted Hashing and Pruning technique Number of Candidate 2-itemsets 0 100000 200000 300000 400000 MIHP 2-node PM IHP 4-node PM IHP 8-node PM IHP Figure 10 Average number of candidate 2itemsets per node Figure 11 shows the average number of candidate 3itemsets processed by each node We included the number of candidate 3-itemsets processed in Apriori to demonstrate the usefulness of the Inverted Hashing and Pruning The number of candidate 2-itemsets for Apriori was about 82 million which is why we did not show that in Figure 10 We can observe the same pattern of reduction in the candidates 3-itemsets as in the candidate 2-itemsets This reduction in the average number of candidate itemsets processed by each processing node may be the most clear explanation for the high increasing rate of the speedup observed as the number of processing nodes increases Number of Candidate 3-itemsets 0 200000 400000 600000 800000 Apriori MIHP 2-node PM IHP 4-node PM IHP 8-node P M IHP Figure 11 Average number of candidate 3itemsets per node We also ran a test with a larger database 8 weeks of the Wall Street Journal published from January 2 1991 through February 22 1991 February 23rd was a Wall Street Journal holiday There were 6,170 documents and 64,191 unique words of which 31,948 were frequent words at the minimum support level of 0.03 i.e 2 out of 6,170 documents The 1-node system required 845,702 seconds to nd 1,554,442 frequent 2-itemsets whereas the 8-node system required 33,183 seconds This performance represents a superliner speedup of 25.5 of the 8-node system over the 1-node system Thus we can conclude that the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable when the database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload The 1-node case generated 16,174,357 candidate 2itemsets whereas the 8-node case generated 2,459,629 candidate 2-itemsets per node on the average The total number of candidate 2-itemsets counted by the 8 nodes were 19,677,031 which means that only 21.7 of the candidate 2-itemsets were counted at more than one processing node This implies that the distribution of words across the 8-week sample of the Wall Street Journal is quite skewed In the Count Distribution algorithm all the nodes count the same set of candidate itemsets in each pass over the database regardless of the distribution of items over the local databases On the other hand in our PMIHP algorithm not all candidate itemsets are counted at more than one node when the distribution of items over the local databases is not uniform Obviously the more skewed the data distribution the better the performance of PMIHP Cheung et al 4 propos ed s e v e ral approaches to partition the databas e 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPSê04 


to achieve a high degree of skewness Text documents arranged in a chronological order do appear to have a high degree of skewness and beneﬁt the PMIHP algorithm 4 Conclusions The proposed Parallel Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning PMIHP algorithm is a parallel version of our Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning MIHP algorithm and it is effective for mining frequent itemsets in large text databases The Multipass approach reduces the required memory space at each processor by partitioning the frequent items and pro cessing each partition separately Thus the number of candidate itemsets to be processed is limited at each instance The Inverted Hashing and Pruning is used to prune the local and global candidate itemsets at each processing node and it also allows each processing node to determine the other peer processing nodes to poll in order to collect the local support counts of each global candidate itemset PMIHP distributes the workload to multiple processing nodes to reduce the total mining time without incurring much parallelization overhead The average number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller than the case of sequential mining while the time for the synchronization between processing nodes to exchange the count information for the global candidate itemsets is very small compared to the total execution time PMIHP is able to exploit the natural skewed distribution of words in text databases and demonstrates a superlinear speedup as the number of processing nodes increases It has a much better performance than well-known parallel Count Distribution algorithm 2 becaus e the a v erage number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller especially when the minimum support level is low Overall the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable even when the size of the text database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload References  R  A gra w al and R  S r i kant   Fast Al gori t h ms for M i n i n g A ssociation Rules Proc of the 20th VLDB Conf  1994 pp 487–499  R Agra w a l and J C S hafer  Paral l e l M i n i n g o f A ssoci at i o n Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 962–969 3 M  S  C hen J Han and P  S  Y u   Dat a Mi ni ng An Overview from a Database Perspective IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 866–883 4 D  W  C heung S  D L ee and Y  Xi ao  E f f ect of Dat a S k e w ness and Workload Balance in Parallel Data Mining IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 14 No 3 2002 pp 498–514 5 S  M  C hung and J Y ang  A Par al l e l D i s t r i b ut i v e J oi n A l gorithm for Cube-Connected Multiprocessors IEEE Trans on Parallel and Distributed Systems  Vol 7 No 2 1996 pp 127–137  R  F e l dman and H Hi rsh F i ndi ng Associ at i ons i n Col l ections of Text Machine Learning and Data Mining Methods and Applications  R Michalski I Bratko and M Kubat editors John Wiley and Sons 1998 pp 223–240  R F e l dman I Dagen and H  H i rsh Mi ni ng T e xt Usi n g Keyword Distributions Journal of Intelligent Information Systems  Vol 10 No 3 1998 pp 281–300  C  Fox L e x i cal Anal ysi s and S t opl i s t s   Inforamtion Retrieval Data Structures and Algorithms W.FrakesandR Baeza-Yates editors Prentice Hall 1992 pp 102–130 9 M  G or don and S  Dumai s Usi ng L a t e nt S e mant i c I nde xi ng for Literature Based Discovery Journal of the Amer Soc of Info Science  Vol 49 No 8 1998 pp 674–685  J Han J P e i  and Y  Y i n Mi n i n g F r equent Pat t e r n s w i t hout Candidate Generation Proc of ACM SIGMOD Intêl Conf on Management of Data  2000 pp 1–12  J D Holt and S  M Chung Multipass Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Text Databases Knowledge and Information Systems  Vol 3 No 2 Springer-Verlag 2001 pp 168–183  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng Associ at i o n R ul es Using Inverted Hashing and Pruning Information Processing Letters  Vol 83 No 4 Elsevier Science 2002 pp 211–220  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng associ at i o n R ul es i n Text Databases Using Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning Proc of the 14th IEEE Intêl Conf on Tools with Artiìcial Intelligence  2002 pp 49–56  J S  Park M S  C hen and P  S  Y u   Usi n g a Hash-B a sed Method with Transaction Trimming for Mining Association Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 9 No 5 1997 pp 813–825  G  S a l t on Automatic Text Processing The Transformation Analysis and Retrieval of Information by Computer  Addison-Wesley Publishing 1988  E  M V oorhees and D K Harmon edi t o rs The Fifth Text Retrieval Conference  National Institute of Standards and Technology 1997  O R  Z a i a ne and M L  Ant o i ne C l assi f y i n g T e x t D ocuments by Associating Terms with Text Categories Proc of the 13th Australian Database Conf  2002 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPSê04 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


