Tool for Generating Access Patterns to Replicate Web Sites in Mobile Clients Gabriel Gonz\341lez S 1, 2 Rodolfo A. Pazos R 1 V\355ctor Sosa S 1 Felipe Menchaca G 2 1 Centro Nacional de Investigaci\363n y Desarrollo Tecnol\363gico \(CENIDET Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico gabriel, pazos, vjsosa}@cenidet.edu.mx 2 Centro de Investigaci\363n en Computaci\363n \(CIC-IPN 
Mexico, D.F., Mexico Abstract  A common problem facing mobile computing is disconnected operation or computing in the absence of a network Hoarding eases disconnected operation by selecting a subset of files for local storage. The purpose of this work focuses on the extraction of Web site access patterns. These patterns permit to establish access probabilities to Web sites, aiming at preselecting and replicating HTML files in a mobile computer. This approach of resource preloading in mobile computer 
permits the continuity of clients work without caring for the state of their connection to the network. Our system utilizes association rules that are extracted by data mining techniques for determining the set of items that should be hoarded to a mobile computer prior disconnection 1   Introduction The use of laptops, notebooks computers, and PDAs is increasing, and likely to increase in the future with more and more applications residing on these mobile systems as a result, the traditional user's profile has changed from simple fixed user to mobile user, who is 
usually time-constrained when he accesses the Web For this kind of user the interaction with the Web is generally expensive since it consumes time and attention. The solution to this problem is a non interactive architecture that accepts requests, finds appropriate servers and executes tasks on the Web without the user's intervention Another aspect to consider is the traditional client/server architecture, which is inadequate for users that are disconnected most of the time. The term 
disconnection refers to the condition that occurs when a mobile computer is unable to communicate with some or all its connection points to the fixed network An example of this scenario is a mobile task force that moves physically in a geographical area scenario the users need to access and update information of customers\220 files or records of a database \(DB\in a server. The kind of access and the work load generated by these users are different from the load of traditi 
onal users of client/server systems To solve some of these problems, a new disconnection mode of operation has been proposed in which mobile clients can be disconnected without losing their processing capacity under the client/server architecture. However, this involves many aspects one of these is the replication of information, which implies keeping info rmation in a mobile computer for permitting work to proceed when it is disconnected from the fixed network. In order to obtain the 
replicated information that a mobile client could need when it is disconnected, mini ng of association rules is used to generate access patterns, which allows deciding what information sh ould be replicated in the mobile client In the absence of communication guarantees, users are being forced to operate disconnected from the network For this reason it has become necessary to develop a software tool for identifying data access 
patterns in distributed system s. To this end, mining of association rules is utilized to increase, through replicas, access availability to data by a client application being executed in a mobile computer This investigation work is part of a project MovirWare\is to demonstrate Proceedings of the Fourth Mexican Internatio nal Conference on Computer Science \(ENC\22203 0-7695-1915-6/03 $17.00 \251 2003 IEEE  


that the use of the reflexive design technique combined with a middleware architecture permits to improve the design and implementation of mobile computing applications. In particular the objective of the project consists of de veloping a platform of reflexive components for this kind of applications The project architecture consists of four large modules: 1\sconnection management, 2\diction mechanism, 3\ding management, and 4 transcoding of Web pages for PDAs [4  S p ecifically this paper describes the prediction mechanism module 2.   Generation of Access Patterns to Information Resources An attractive solution to solve the disconnection problem is the generation of hoarding that allows deciding the data that shou ld be replicated in mobile equipment The evident problem of this approach is the identification and implementation of the prediction mechanism of the best suited hoarding scheme for selecting the items that are necessary to replicate There are many data mining algorithms that were designed for specific applications, and therefore it is necessary to identify the domains of application of the most efficient Some previous works ha ve simply opted for choosing the most recently referenced files, or asking the user to handle conten ts hoarding. The first solution is wasteful of hoarding space and the second demands more experience and involvement on the part of the  d mecha nism is mining of association rules which describes the access behavior to information resources occurred during a certain time exampl e, the access logfile generated by a Web server during one month is analyzed; based on the analysis of the behavior recorded in this logfile, it is possible to detect behavior patterns that permit to preselect information resources for replication in the mobile clients equipment. The algorithms implemented in this project have been used in file system and mobile database  however they have no been used for hoarding of Web objects Web pages pdf files, image files, etc 2.1.   Mining of Association Rules An approach from data mining consists of finding a set of rules that describe properties of data. For example, if we consider a database organized in tables, each one with a set of columns corresponding to a set of attributes, this kind of data exploration informally speaking, find s rules of the type f  X  g  Y  X and Y are subsets of all the attributes involved, and f and g denote any type of formula that can be defined on these attributes The rule means that when formula f is satisfied for a given set X of attributes, formula g will be satisfied for another concrete group Y of attributes. The rules obtained this way, will have, however, a degree of truthfulness or confidence that indicates the extent to which the rule can be trusted, i.e., how many times this rule is satisfied in th e sample of explored data with respect to the number of times the left part of the rule is satisfied 2.2.   Description of the Mining Algorithm of Association Rules Mining algorithms of associat ion rules are constituted by three sequential pa rts. Each part carries out a specific task that is used as inpu t for the following part of the algorithm The first stage, which is th e simplest, is in charge of finding large items, i.e., finding those items that were only used sporadically. This is achieved in the following way: each item is assigned a counter, the transactions database is scanned, and for each appearance of an item its counter is increased Items that have a support larger than the indicated value minsup ored for the following stage of the algorithm In the second stage the large items obtained in the previous stage are used to generate combinations of items. For each generated group of items its support is calculated. Th ose groups of items with support larger than minsup are kept aside for the third and last stage In the third stag e of this algorithm, subsets of the generated groups of items are generated, and their confidence is calculated by scanning the transactions database. Those groups with a confidence larger than the value indicated by the user are utilized to create association rules This last stage differentiates each mining algorithm of association rules. The first two stages are common to all the mining algorithms, so the last stage is the one that determines each miner's special characteristics 3.   Generator of Web Site Access Patterns 3.1.   Implemented Mining Algorithms The mining algorithms of association rules implemented in the Generator of Web Site Access Patterns are the following Composite Items CI\algorithm offers an alternative for the creation of association rules based on the creation of candidate sets. This algorithm is described in 1 Time Windows TW\ The main characteristic of this algorithm is that it proposes the use of heuristic mechanisms and Proceedings of the Fourth Mexican Internatio nal Conference on Computer Science \(ENC\22203 0-7695-1915-6/03 $17.00 \251 2003 IEEE  


inference for the generation of association rules. It is presented in Seer Another mechanism to carry out automatic replication is the one proposed in  n  wh ich th e u s e of seman tic d i stan ce is proposed for finding the existing relationship among items 3.2.   Description of the Generator This tool permits the generation of Web site access patterns using the logf ile of transactions carried out through a proxy or Web server. Next we describe the most important elements of the tool Support It is the first filter of the algorithms, which is used to discard those items that were only used sporadically. Support is used to obtain patterns that are really significant. Fo rmally, support is the percentage of appearances of item X in the logfile of information access. The support value can be specified anywhere in the range from 0 to 100% as deemed necessary. The number of rules and groups of patterns is inversely proportiona l to the support value and their significance is proportional to this value Confidence It is the second filter of the algorithms. This is used to discard those groups of not very significant items; i.e., it discards the association rules that are not very significant or that have a very low probability of being used. Formally, confidence is the percentage of simultaneous appearances of item X and item Y The confidence value can be set between 0 and 100%. The rule significance is proportional to the confidence. For example, let us consider the following rule X  Y with support = 0.1 and confidence = 0.85 This is interpreted in the following way: the probability that a user accesses item X is 10%, and out of this 10% the probability that he accesses item Y after accessing X is 85 Window This is a very impo rtant parameter for the generation of association rules since it is the one in charge of transactions generation. This is so because mining algorithms of association rules only work on transactions, and logfiles are not built this way. To generate transactions one or more items accessed by a user are grouped together. There exist two types of partitions for carrying out this process Fixed partition In this partition type the logfile is grouped in a fixed way based on the users and a fixed number of items; i.e., each transaction will contain n items, where n is the same for all the transactions. In general, for any user several transactions can be generated if the number of item accesses by the user is larger than n  Time partition In this partition type the logfile is grouped based on the users and the items they have accessed in a time interval t For any user several transactions can be generated, and each transaction will have a different number of items, since this depends on what the user has accessed in that time interval Fixed partition is used by the Seer and Composite Items algorithms, and time part ition is used by the Time Windows algorithm. Wind ow values can be set from 0 to 100, and their meaning depends on the algorithm. For Time Windows it means a time interval expressed in minutes, and for Seer or Composite Items it indicates a number of items. For example, if a value of 10 is specified each transaction will vary depending on the partition type being used Output rules It is the file for storing the association rules generated by the mining algorithms of association rules. This file has two formats: the first one is used by the Seer and Time Windows algorithms and the second is used by the Composite Items algorithm Output groups There exist two formats to store the groups: format 1 is used by the Time Windows and Seer algorithms, and format 2 is used by the Composite Items algorithm 4.   Experimental Results Figure 1 shows the processing time for each algorithm. Notice that this time varies according to the support value. As the support gets smaller the execution time increases; this is so because the support indicates the appearance frequency that the items used to generate association rules must have. In other words, the smaller the support the larger the number of items involved in the generation of association rules, and the larger the execution time since this is proportional to the number of items The seer line shows the results obtained by this algorithm. Notice that the execution time is smaller than that of the ot her two algorithms. This is explained mainly by the way items are dealt with each item has an associated identifier that speedups access to the items. The cross line corresponds to the Time Windows algorithm, whose execution time is very similar to that of the Seer algorithm. However when the support gets smaller its execution time tends to grow larger, this is because as the number of items involved grows larger the handling of items becomes less efficient, resulting in an increase in execution time Fig. 1 Execution time of the algorithms The square line corresponds to the Composite Items algorithm. This algorithm is very fast with a Proceedings of the Fourth Mexican Internatio nal Conference on Computer Science \(ENC\22203 0-7695-1915-6/03 $17.00 \251 2003 IEEE  


high support, but as the support gets smaller its execution time increases, because this algorithm consists of two stages: th e generation of composite items and the generation of sets. Consequently, the number of items handled by this algorithm is larger than those of the other two algorithms; i.e., since this algorithm handles simple items and composite items execution time increases when the number of items grows Figure 2 shows the number of association rules generated by each algorithm for different support values. Notice that when the support gets smaller the number of accepted items grows larger, therefore more item sets can be created for the generation of association rules and consequently the number of rules increases Fig. 2 Number of rules vs. support for the Seer and Time Windows algorithms In Figure 2 the resu lts obtained by the Seer algorithm are represented by a cross line. Notice that the number of rules generat ed varies inversely with respect to the support. The number of rules generated differs from those of the other algorithms due to the way in which the Seer algo rithm partitions the logfile and creates item sets. Figure 2 shows with a square line the results obtain ed by the Time Windows algorithm, which reveals that when the support is high, it has a similar behavior to that of the Seer algorithm, but when the support decreases the Time Windows algorithm generates more rules, this is why it is a little slower than Seer. This difference among the algorithms can be explained mainly by the way each algorithm partitions the logfile The Seer algorithm carries out a fixed partition which implies that a smaller number of transactions is generated and the support of the item sets is smaller and some of these are rejected. For this reason the number of generated association rules decreases. The Time Windows algorithm uses a time partition, which generates a larger number of transactions that those obtained by fixed partition for this reason the support of the item sets increases, which implies that a larger number of items is accepted and the number of association rules generated increases Figure 3 shows the results for the generation of association rules by the Co mposite Items algorithm which are represented by a yellow line. Notice that with respect to the Time Windows and Seer algorithms, the number of rules that it generates is very high, and this is the reason for being the slowest algorithm. This large number of association rules is due to the generation of composite items Fig. 3 Number of rules vs. support for the Composite Items algorithm 4.1.   Efficiency of the Algorithms To conduct efficiency tests a software was implemented, which uses the patterns generated by each of the algorithms and simulates how these patterns would work in a re al life environment. For carrying out this process two logfiles were used; let us assume that the first logfile comprises from Sep. 1 through Sep. 30, and the second from Oct. 1 through Oct. 31. The first logfile is used as input for the System for Hoarding Pattern Generation in order to obtain the patterns for each of the algorithms Upon obtaining the patterns the second logfile is used to carry out th e simulation of clients requests When a request arrives, it is looked up in the patterns and the information related to the request is obtained this information is compared with the subsequent requests. This way we can know how reliable the patterns obtained are Figure 4 shows the results of the algorithms efficiency, where the users' identifiers are indicated along the x axis, and the percentage of requests satisfied for each user is shown on the y axis. For each user three bars are displayed, each one represents the result obtained with one the algorithms. The results shown in the graph are just a sample from a set of             0 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000 70000 80000 90000 234 56 789 Suppor t    0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 2345678910 Suppor t   SEER   TW     40000 160000 360000 560000 760000 960000 1160000 1360000 45678910 Suppor t   SEER   TW   CI Proceedings of the Fourth Mexican Internatio nal Conference on Computer Science \(ENC\22203 0-7695-1915-6/03 $17.00 \251 2003 IEEE  


approximately 250 users th at were involved in the logfile. It is worth noting that the Seer and the Time Windows algorithms have very similar efficiencies and the Composite Items algorithm has a smaller efficiency than that of the other algorithms. Notice however, that this algorithm generated results for users where the Seer and Time Windows algorithms failed; this is the case for user 21. Notice also that there are users for which their requests could not be predicted; while for other users it was possible to predict all their requests 4.2.   Construction of Web site pattern tree The client that issues a hoard request has limited resources. The storage resource is of particular importance for hoarding since we have a limited space to load the set of files that compose a Web site Therefore, the set of files obtained in the process of generating access patterns should shrink to the original site so that it fits th e client storage capability The association rules obtained after mining the access logfile of a Web site are used for constructing the Web site pattern tree that should be replicated in a mobile computer upon disc onnection. The candidate set is defined as the set of all candidates files for hoarding for a specific client Hoard set is the set of files actually loaded to the client prior to disconnection The process of automated hoarding via association rules can be summarized as follows: 1\ Request of the client in the current session are used through an inferencing mechanism to construct the candidate set prior to disconnection, 2\date set is pruned to form the hoard set, 3\Hoard set is loaded to the client A Web site can be conceptualized as a structure tree with many levels, each level corresponds with a new html file or other data resources \(e.g., .pdf files doc files, ps files, etc\Figure 5 shows this structure  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Levels In our system we conceptualized this tree structure as a sub-tree, in other words a subset of html files and data resources that compose the original site. Figure 6 shows a Web site pattern tree This sub-tree or pattern tree is hoarded in computer client prior disconnection The preselection of this set of files and data resources let clients operate in disconnection mode 4.3. Hoarding Web site pattern in a mobile computers Hoarding is a concept that has been successfully applied to file systems. These systems allow clients to load replicas of files while disconnected. In this work concept to hoarding subsets of files that compose a Web site at mobile computer. This subset of files we called pattern tree Our system hoards patterns trees in a mobile computer. This is achieved in the following way 1 The system analyses the URL address request issued by a client at mobile computer and searching this address in a pattern container 2 If a pattern of this URL address is found then the pattern tree of this Web site is hoarding in to client's mobile computer 3 The replica in the mobile computer is uncompress and load in a local cache repository 4 When a mobile computer disconnects to the network, the local cache provides a subset of Web site that previously was re plicate from hoarding manager. All processes are shown in Figure 8 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Succ es s per ce nt a g e 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49 Users SEER VT EC Seer TW CI Fig. 4 Efficiency of the algorithms Fig. 5 Tree structure of Web site Proceedings of the Fourth Mexican Internatio nal Conference on Computer Science \(ENC\22203 0-7695-1915-6/03 $17.00 \251 2003 IEEE  


5.   Final Remarks In this work a System for Hoarding Pattern Generation was implemented which uses three mining algorithms of association rules: Windows of Time, Seer and Composite Items. These algorithms generate data access patterns, aiming at preselecting information resources \(Web pages, files, or database fragments\before a mobile client requests them The results obtained w ith this work are the following Based on the obtained results it can be concluded that the algorithms are able to predict with up to 50% of confidence. There are users that cannot be located in any pattern, and there are others for which the prediction rate can be as high as 100 The Time Windows algorithm is slower than the Seer algorithm, but generates more rules and can obtain patterns for time intervals. Its efficiency is 49% of success The Composite Items algorithm is the slowest and generates a huge number of association rules. Its average efficiency is 32%, the lowest of the three algorithms. However, th is algorithm generates patterns for users that the other two algorithms are unable to generate On the average the Seer alg orithm outperforms the other algorithms since it is slightly faster. It generates the smallest number of rules, but has an efficiency of 50%, the highest for the three algorithms We can mention some additional benefits of the System for Hoarding Pattern Generation A user should not be an expert in mining of association rules to operate this system. He should only understand the support and confidence concepts to be able to use it Since the system includes three mining algorithms of association rules, it can produce different results that complement each other for better performance The process of hoarding pattern generation is automatic and does not need user intervention The system was tested and evaluated and it was found that it generates information access patterns which are useful for automatic hoarding and the preselection of items that are necessary to replicate When comparing the system with a statistical tool Analog\, one finds out that this last tool cannot predict requests issued by users. Such a tool only provides information such as the most requested item the busiest hour and day, etc.; while the System for Hoarding Pattern Generati on permits to obtain patterns that can be used for predicting with a certain confidence the items that a user may request References 1. Ye, X, Keane, J.A.: Mining Associations Rules with Composite Items. Dept. of Computer Science, University of New Auckland, Zealand. Dept. of Computation UMIST Manchester U.K. \(2000 2 Saygin, Y., Ujusoy, O., Elmagarmid, A.K.: Association Rules for Supporting Hoarding in Mobile Computing Environments. IEEE \(2000 3. Kuenning, G.H., Popek, G.J.: Automated Hoarding for Mobile Computers. In procceding of the ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, St, Malo France \(1997 4 Gonz\341lez, G., Pazos, R Menchaca, F., Valenzuela, D Alarc\363n, F.: Plataforma Middleware Reflexiva para la Implementaci\363n de Aplicaciones de C\363mputo M\363vil MovirWare\In proceedings of 8vo. Congreso International de Investigaci\363n en Ciencias Computacionales, Inst. Tecnol\363gico de Colima, Colima Mexico \(Nov. 2001 5. Ratner, D., Reiher, P., Popek, G.J.: Replication Requirements in Mobile Environments. Technical report CSD-970021, University of California, Los Angeles June 1997\. ftp://ftp.cs.ucla.edu/tech-report/97reports/970021.ps.Z 6 Analog, http://www.analog.cx/ \(2003 7. Holliday J., D. Agrawal, A. El Abbadi, Exploiting Planned Disconnections in Mobile Environments Department of Computer Science, University of California, at Santa Barbara, 2000 8. Zaki, M.J.; Parthasarathy, S Wei Li; Ogihara, M Evaluation of sampling for data mining of association rules, Dept. of Computer Sc ience., Rochester Univ., NY USA. 1999 9 M. Satyanarayanan, Fundamental Challenges in Mobile Computing, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, 1998 Fig. 6 Sub-tree of Web site  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Levels 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Levels 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Levels Proceedings of the Fourth Mexican Internatio nal Conference on Computer Science \(ENC\22203 0-7695-1915-6/03 $17.00 \251 2003 IEEE  


the number of frequency counts transmitted during one epoch We study each optimization objective in turn in Sections 2.1.2 and 2.1.3 and provide optimal algorithm choices and settings for the error tolerances  2  l  1 making up the precision gradient Then since realworld data is unlikely to exhibit worst-case behavior in Section 2.1.4 we propose a variant that seeks to achieve low load on the most heavily-loaded link under nonworst-case inputs for which estimated data distributions are available 2.1.2 Minimizing Total Load on the Root Node Using Algorithm 1a at all applicable nodes and setting  i 0 for all 2  i  l  1  whereby all decrementing and elimination of synopsis counts is performed by children of root node R  minimizes communication load on the root node R under any input streams We term this strategy MinRootLoad Lemma 1 Given a value for  1  for any input streams no values of  2  l  1 satisfying  1   2     l  1 and no choice of synopsis-merging algorithm results in lower total communication load on node R than the values  2   3     l  1 0 and Algorithm 1a assuming buffer space at each node is sufcient to store all inputs arriving during one epoch Proof Consider node X  an arbitrary child of the root node R  Let S X denote the union of all streams arriving at the monitor nodes belonging to the subtree rooted at X during one epoch Since an   1  1 synopsis is sent from X to R  for any setting of  2  l  1  counts for all items v with frequency c  v    1  S X  are sent over the link from X to R here  S X  denotes the number of item occurrences in S X  Using  2   3     l  1 0 and Algorithm 1a at X it is easy to see that an item u will be sent over the link from X to R only if c  u    1  S X   Therefore this setting of  2  l  1 along with the use of Algorithm 1a results in the smallest possible number of counts sent over the link from X to R  Since this property holds for any child X of R  strategy MinRootLoad minimizes the total communication load on R  for any input streams  2.1.3 Minimizing Worst-Case Maximum Load on Any Link In this section we show how to set  2  l  1 and how to select a synopsis-merging algorithm to use at each node so as to minimize the maximum load on any communication link in the worst case over all possible input streams We provide a two step solution First we show that for any precision gradient  2  l  1  use of Algorithm 1a at each node minimizes the load on every link provided buffer space at each node is suf“cient to store all inputs arriving during one epoch Then we derive the optimal precision gradient when Algorithm 1a is used at each node We begin with the issue of selecting a synopsismerging algorithm Observation 1 If presented with identical inputs Algorithm 1b produces output S and Algorithm 1a produces output S   then S  n  S   n and for all items u S  S  c  u  S   c  u   Observation 2 Consider two sets of inputs to one of Algorithm 1a or Algorithm 1b Let input 1  S 1  S 2  S d   and input 2  S  1  S  2  S  d  where for all j  1  j  d  S j  n  S  j  n and for all items u S  j  S j  c  u  S  j  c  u   Let input 1 lead to output S  whereas input 2 lead to output S   Then S  n  S   n and for all items u S  S  c  u  S   c  u   Lemma 2 At any node X use of Algorithm 1a results in no higher communication on any link than use of Algorithm 1b Proof Follows from Observation 1 and multiple invocations of Observation 2  Lemma 3 Given a choice between Algorithms 1a and 1b under any precision gradient use of Algorithm 1a at each node minimizes the maximum load on any link Proof Follows from Lemma 2  It is trivial to extend this result to include leaf nodes replacing Algorithm 1a with the original lossy counting algorithm Next we show how to set  2  l  1 assuming Algorithm 1a is used at each node and the lossy counting algorithm is used to generate the local synopsis at each monitor node We also assume the buffer each monitor node uses for lossy counting is large enough to store frequency counts of all items arriving on the input stream during any one epoch As we later con“rm in Section 3 this assumption poses no problem in practice particularly if the epoch duration is small For our worst-case analysis we extend the set of possible inputs in two minor ways 1 The occurrence frequency of an item arriving on an input stream can be a positive real number 2 Associated with each item u is a weight w u  0  1  In an epoch at most one item occurrence per input stream can be an occurrence of an item of weight less than 1 The cost of transmitting the count of item u with weight w u is w u  In a synopsis S  n   w u  c  u   Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


As will become clear later both of these enhancements allow load on a link to be expressed as a continuous function which in turn simpli“es our worst-case analysis Neither enhancement alters the worst-case input signi“cantly First during an epoch at most one item occurrence per input stream can have non-integral weight Second any input with real-valued item frequencies can be transformed into an input with nearly integral frequencies that yields identical results by multiplying each frequency by a large number and dividing all answers produced by the same number For notational ease we transform the problem of setting  2  l  1 to that of setting  2   l  1  where for all 2  i  l  2   i   i   i 1 and  l  1   l  1  It is required that  i  0 for all 2  i  l  1  and that  l  1 i 2  i   1   i denotes the precision margin at level i  i.e the difference between the error tolerances at level i and level i 1  Let the vector     2   3   l  1  Let I denote the contents of all input streams S 1 S m during a single epoch Let I denote the set of all possible instances of I  Given an input I  a communication hierarchy T de“ned by degree d and number of levels l  and a setting of the precision gradient   let w represent the maximum load on any link in the communication hierarchy w  I T    max k  links     load  k   Worst-case load W is de“ned as W  T    max I I  w  I T    Given a communication hierarchy T  the objective is to set  such that the worst-case load W  T   is minimized We rst show that it is suf“cient to consider a speci“c subset of all instances of the general problem for worstcase analysis Then we nd precision gradient values  values that cause the worst-case load under any of these instances to be minimal There exists a subset I wc of the set of all input instances I such that for all instances I IŠI wc  there exists an instance I  I wc such that for any T    w  I   T    w  I T    Hence I wc denotes the set of worst-case inputs  Instance I is a member of I wc if and only if it satis“es each of the following three properties P1 For any two input streams S i and S j  there is no item occurrence common to both S i and S j  P2  For any input stream S i  all items occurring in S i occur with equal frequency P3  For any two input streams S i and S j  both the number of item occurrences and the number of distinct items in S i and S j are equal Lemma 4 For xed T and   given any input instance I  it is possible to nd an input instance I  I wc such that w  I   T    w  I T    Proof Our proof of Lemma 4 is rather involved and is provided in  From Lemma 4 we know it is suf“cient to consider the set I wc for worst-case communication load Hence we can rewrite our expression for W  T   as W  T    max I I wc  w  I T    Property P3 of I wc implies that the total number of item occurrences at any leaf node is the same Let n denote this number   S i   n for all 1  i  m  Let tc  j  denote the total number of item occurrences arriving on streams monitored by at the leaf nodes of a subtree rooted at a node at level j  It is easy to see that tc  j  d  l  1  j   n  where l is the number of levels in the communication hierarchy and d is the fanout of all non-leaf nodes The next lemma shows that worst-case inputs induce a high degree of symmetry on the resulting synopses Lemma 5 For any input instance I I wc  the following two properties hold for the d j   j  1 synopses relayed by the d j levelj nodes to their parents 1 No item is present in more than one synopsis 2 The estimated frequency counts corresponding to any two items even if present in two different synopses have the same value Proof See  Due to the high degree of symmetry formalized in Lemma 5 the count for each item is eliminated due to being decremented and falling below zero at the same level of the communication hierarchy Let us call this level x  If all counts are dropped at the leaf level then x  l  1  If all counts are retained through the entire process and are sent to the root node R level 0  then x 0  Otherwise all counts are dropped at some intermediate level 1  x  l  2  The most heavily loaded link\(s are the ones leading to level x  To see why consider that no data is transmitted on subsequent links and previous links have lower load since data is spread more thinly in any communication hierarchy T  the number of links between levels decreases monotonically as data moves from leaves to the root When synopses are combined at nodes of level i using Algorithm 1 the frequency count estimate of each item is decremented by the quantity tc  i    i let Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


 1   1   l  1 i 2  i  Hence the true frequency count of any item occurring on some input stream must be C  l  1 j  x 1  tc  j    j    where  is a small quantity 3  The number of items present in each input stream is thus n  C 4  Since synopses for d l  1  x input streams are transmitted through a node at level x  the load on the most heavily loaded link\(s is L  x  d l  2  x  n C  Clearly the maximum value of L  x  is achieved when   0  The expression for L  x  can be simpli“ed to L  x  1  l  1 j  x 1  j  d x  j 1  Now our expression for the worst-case load on any link can be reduced to W  T    max x 0  1 l  2  L  x   We desire to minimize W  T   subject to the constraints  2   l  1  0 and  l  1 j 2  j   1 It is easy to show that this minimum is achieved when L 0  L 1    L  l  2  Solving for  2   l  1  we obtain  i   1  d  1  l  2   d  1 d  2  i  l  2 and  l  1   1  d  l  2   d  1 d  Translating to error tolerances we set  i   1   l  1  i    d  1 d  l  2   d  1 d for all 2  i  l  1  This setting of  2  l  1 minimizes worst-case communication load on any link We term this strategy MinMaxLoad WC Under this strategy the maximum possible load on any link is L wc   l  2   d  1 d d   1 counts per epoch Lastly we note that MinMaxLoad WC remains the optimal precision gradient even if nodes of the same level can have different  values Informally since with worst-case inputs all incoming streams have identical characteristics maximum link load cannot be improved by using non-uniform  values for nodes at a given level we omit a formal proof for brevity 2.1.4 Good Precision Gradients for Non-Worst-Case Inputs Real data is unlikely to exhibit worst-case characteristics Consequently strategies that are optimal in the worst case may not always perform well in practice In terms of minimizing the maximum communication load on any link the worst-case inputs are ones in which the set of items occurring on each input stream are disjoint When this situation arises a gradual precision gradient is best to use as shown in Section 2.1.3 Using a gradual precision gradient some of the pruning of frequency 3 Recall that we allow the frequency of an item to be a real number 4 More precisely each stream contains  n C  items of weight 1 each and one item of weight  n C  n C   Note that each input stream contains at most one item with weight less than 1 as stipulated earlier counts is delayed until a better estimate of the overall distribution is available closer to the root thereby enabling more effective pruning In the opposite extreme when all input streams contain identical distributions of item occurrences there is no bene“t to delaying pruning and performing maximal pruning at the leaf nodes as in strategy SS2 is most effective at minimizing communication In fact it is easy to show that SS2 is the optimal strategy for minimizing the maximum load on any link when all input streams are comprised of identical distributions we omit a formal proof Note however that SS2 still incurs a high space requirement on the root node R since it sets  1    We posit that most real-world data falls somewhere between these two extremes To determine where exactly a data set lies with regard to the two extremes we estimate the commonality between input streams S 1 S m by inspecting an epoch worth of data from each stream We compute a commonality parameter   0  1 as   1 m   m i 1 G i L i  where G i and L i are de“ned over stream S i as follows The quantity G i is de“ned as the number of distinct items occurring in S i that occur at least   S i  times in S i and also at least   S  times in S  S 1  S 2  S m  where  S  denotes the number of item occurrences in S during the epoch of measurement The quantity L i is de“ned as the number of distinct items occurring in S i that occur at least   S i  times in S i  Hence commonality parameter  measures the fraction of items frequent enough in one input stream to be included in a leaf-level synopsis by strategy SS 2 that are also at least as frequent globally in the union of all input streams A natural hybrid strategy is to use a linear combination of MinMaxLoad WC and SS2 weighted by   The strategy is as follows set  i 1       1   l  1  i    d  1 d  l  2   d  1 d        for 2  i   l  2  and  l  1 1       1  d  l  2   d  1 d         We term this hybrid strategy MinMaxLoad NWC for non-worstcase Commonality parameter  1 implies that locally frequent items are also globally frequent and SS2 modi“ed to use  1   is a good choice Conversely  0 indicates that MinMaxLoad WC is a good choice For 0  1  a weighted mixture of the two strategies is best 2.1.5 Summary The precision gradient strategies we have introduced are summarized in Table 3 Sample precision gradients are illustrated in Figure 3 3 Experimental Evaluation In this section we evaluate the performance of our newly-proposed strategies for setting the precision graProceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


Table 3 Summary of precision gradient settings studied  Strategy Description Section Introduced Simple Strategy 1 SS1 Transmits raw data to root node R 1.3 Simple Strategy 2 SS2 Reduces data maximally at leaves 1.3 MinRootLoad Minimizes total load on root in all cases 2.1.2 MinMaxLoad WC Minimizes worst-case maximum load on any link 2.1.3 MinMaxLoad NWC Achieves low load on heaviest-loaded link under non-worst-case inputs 2.1.4 0 0.0002 0.0004 0.0006 0.0008 0.001 43210 Tree level \(i SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC Error tolerance  i input            leaf root Figure 3 Precision gradients for  0  001   0  5  dient using the two na  ve strategies suggested in Section 1 as baselines We begin in Section 3.1 by describing the real-world data and simulated distributed monitoring environment we used Then in Section 3.2 we analyze the data using our model of Section 2.1.4 to derive appropriate parameters for our MinMaxLoad NWC strategy that is geared toward performing in the presence of non-worst-case data We report our measurements of space utilization on node R in Section 3.3 and provide measurements of communication load in Section 3.4 3.1 Data Sets As described in Section 1 our motivating applications include detecting DDoS attacks and monitoring hot spots in large-scale distributed systems For the rst type of application we used traf“c logs from Internet2 and sought to identify hosts recei ving lar ge numbers of packets recently For the second type we sought to identify frequently-issued SQL queries in two dynamic Web application benchmarks con“gured to execute in a distributed fashion The I NTERNET 2 traf c traces were obtained by collecting anonymized net”ow data from nine core routers of the Abilene network Data were collected for one full day of router operation and were broken into 288 ve-minute epochs To simulate a larger number of nodes we divided the data from each router in a random fashion We simulated an environment with 216 network nodes which also serve as monitor nodes For the web applications we used Java Servlet versions of two publicly available dynamic Web application benchmarks RUBiS and R UBBoS 10 R U BiS is modeled after eBay an online auction site and RUBBoS is modeled after slashdot an online bulletin-board so we refer them as AUCTION and BBOARD  respectively We used the suggested con“guration parameters for each application and ran each benchmark for 40 hours on a single node.We then partitioned the database requests into 216 groups in a roundrobin fashion honoring user session boundaries We simulated a distributed execution of each benchmark with 216 nodes each executing one group of database requests and also serving as a monitor node For all data sets we simulated an environment with 216 monitoring nodes  m  216  and a communication hierarchy of fanout six  d 6  Consequently our simulated communication hierarchy consisted of four levels including the root node  l 4  We set s 0  01   0  1  s  and  1 0  9    Our simulated monitor nodes used lossy counting in batch mode whereby frequency estimates were reduced only at the end of each epoch in all cases less than 64KB of buffer space was used to create synopses over local streams The epoch duration T was set to 5 minutes for the I NTERNET 2 data set and 15 minutes for the other two data sets 3.2 Data Characteristics Using samples of each of our three data sets we estimated the commonality parameter  for each data set Recall that we use  to parameterize our strategy MinMaxLoad NWC presented in Section 2.1.4 We obtained  values of 0.675 0.839 and 0.571 for the I NTER NET 2 AUCTION and BBOARD data sets respectively Hence the AUCTION data set exhibited the most commonality among all three data sets Results presented in Section 3.4 show that AUCTION indeed has the most commonality 3.3 Space Requirement on Root Node Figure 4 plots space utilization at the root node R as a function of time in units of epochs using Algorithm 2a to generate the synopsis for different values of the decay parameter   using two different strategies for the precision gradient The plots shown are for the I N TERNET 2 data set The y-axis of each graph plots the current number of counts stored in the     synopsis S A maintained by the root node R  Figure 4a plots synopsis size under our MinMaxLoad WC strategy under three different values of   0.6 0.9 and 1 As predicted by our analysis in when  1 the size of S A remains roughly constant after reaching steady-state whereas when  1 synopsis size increases logarithmically with time similar results were obtained for the Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 0.9 1.0 a MinMaxLoad WC 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 b SS2 Figure 4 Space needed at node R to store answer synopsis S A  non-distributed single-stream case In contrast when SS2 is used to set the precision gradient Figure 4b the space requirement is almost an order of magnitude greater This difference in synopsis size occurs because in SS2 frequency counts are only pruned from synopses at leaf nodes so counts for all items that are locally frequent in one or more local streams reach the root node No pruning power is reserved for the root node and therefore no count in S A is ever discarded irrespective of the  value The same situation occurs if Algorithm 2b is used instead of Algorithm 2a This result underscores the importance of setting  1  in order to limit the size of S A  as discussed in Section 2.1 3.4 Communication Load Figure 5 shows our communication measurements under each of our two metrics for each of our three data sets under each of the ve strategies for setting the precision gradient listed in Table 3 First of all as expected the overhead of SS1 is excessive under both metrics Second by inspecting Figure 5a we see that strategy MinRootLoad does indeed incur the least load on the root node R in all cases as predicted by our analysis of Section 2.1.2 Under this metric MinRootLoad outperforms both simple strategies SS1 and SS2 by a factor of 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 247k 10k 296k 132k 20k counts transmitted \(per epoch a Load on root node R 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 43k    21k 52k   19k 23k   7k counts transmitted \(per epoch b Maximum load on any link Figure 5 Communication measurements k denotes thousands ve or more in all cases measured However MinRootLoad performs poorly in terms of maximum load on any link as shown in Figure 5b because no early elimination of counts for infrequent items is performed and consequently synopses sent from the grand-children of the root node to the children of the root node tend to be quite large As expected MinMaxLoad NWC performs best under that metric on all data sets For the AUCTION data set even though SS2 outperforms MinMaxLoad WC to be expected because of the high  value our hybrid strategy MinMaxLoad NWC is superior to SS2 by a factor of over two For the I NTERNET 2 and BBOARD data sets the improvement over SS2 is more than a factor of three On the negative side total communication not shown in graphs is somewhat higher under MinMaxLoad WC than under SS2 increase of between 7.5 and 49.5 depending on the data set 4 Related Work Most prior work on identifying frequent items in data streams 6 8 9 19 only considers the single-stream case While we are not aware of any work on maintaining frequency counts for frequent items in a distributed stream setting work by Babcock and Olston does adProceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


dress a related problem In the problem is to monitor continuously changing numerical values which could represent frequency counts in a distributed setting The objective is to maintain a list of the top k aggregated values where each aggregated value represents the sum of a set of individual values each of which is stored on a different node The work of assumes a single-le v e l communication topology and does not consider how to manage synopsis precision in hierarchical communication structures using in-network aggregation which is the main focus of this paper The work most closely related to ours is the recent work of Greenwald and Khanna which addresses the problem of computing approximate quantiles in a general communication topology Their technique can be used to nd frequencies of frequent items to within a con“gurable error tolerance The work in focuses on providing an asymptotic bound on the maximum load on any link our result adheres to the same asymptotic bound It does not however address how best to con“gure a precision gradient in order to minimize load which is the particular focus of our work 5 Summary In this paper we studied the problem of nding frequent items in the union of multiple distributed streams The central issue is how best to manage the degree of approximation performed as partial synopses from multiple nodes are combined We characterized this process for hierarchical communication topologies in terms of a precision gradient followed by synopses as they are passed from leaves to the root and combined incrementally We studied the problem of nding the optimal precision gradient under two alternative and incompatible optimization objectives 1 minimizing load on the central node to which answers are delivered and 2 minimizing worst-case load on any communication link We then introduced a heuristic designed to perform well for the second objective in practice when data does not conform to worst-case input characteristics Our experimental results on three real-world data sets showed that our methods of setting the precision gradient are greatly superior to na  ve strategies under both metrics on all data sets studied Acknowledgments We thank Arvind Arasu and Dawn Song for their valuable input and assistance References  R Agra w a l and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In VLDB  1994  I Akamai T echnologies Akamai http://www akamai.com   A Ak ella A Bharambe M Reiter  and S Seshan Detecting DDoS attacks on ISP networks In PODS Workshop on Management and Processing of Data Streams  2003  A Arasu and G S Manku Approximate quantiles and frequency counts over sliding windows In PODS  2004  B Babcock and C Olston Distrib uted top-k monitoring In SIGMOD  2003  M Charikar  K  Chen and M F arach-Colton Finding frequent items in data streams In International Colloquium on Automata Languages and Programming  2002  E Cohen and M Strauss Maintaining time-decaying stream aggregates In PODS  2003  G Cormode and S Muthukrishnan What s hot and whats not Tracking frequent items dynamically In PODS  2003  E D Demaine A Lopez-Ortiz and J I Munro Frequency estimation of internet packet streams with limited space In European Symposium on Algorithms  2003  DynaServ er R UBis and R UBBos http://www.cs rice.edu/CS/Systems/DynaServer   eBay Inc eBay  http://www.ebay.com   C Estan and G V a r ghese Ne w directions in traf c measurement and accounting In SIGCOMM  2002  M F ang N Shi v akumar  H  Garcia-Molina R Motwani and J Ulmann Computing iceberg queries ef“ciently In VLDB  1998  P  B Gibbons and Y  Matias Ne w sampling-based summary statistics for improving approximate query answers In SIGMOD  1998  P  B Gibbons and S T irthapura Estimating simple functions on the union of data streams In Symposium on Parallel Algorithms and Architectures  2001  M Greenw ald and S Khanna Po wer conserving computation of order-statistics over sensor networks In PODS  2004  J Han J Pei G Dong and K W ang Ef cient computation of iceberg queries with complex measures In SIGMOD  2001  Internet2 Internet2 Abilene Netw ork http abilene.internet2.edu   R M Karp S Shenk er  and C H P apadimitriou A simple algorithm for nding frequent elements in streams and bags ACM Trans Database Syst  2003  H.-A Kim and B Karp Autograph T o w ard automated distributed worm signature detection In Proceedings of the 13th Usenix Security Symposium  2004  A Manjhi V  Shkapen yuk K Dhamdhere and C Olston Finding recently frequent items in distributed data streams Technical report 2004 http://www cs.cmu.edu/˜manjhi/freqItems.pdf   G S Manku and R Motw ani Approximate frequenc y counts over data streams In VLDB  2002  Open Source De v elopment Netw ork Inc Slashdot http://slashdot.org  Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


12] S. Fujiwara, J. D. Ullman and R. Motwani, Dynamic Miss-Counting Algorithms: Finding Implications and Similarity Rules with Confidence Pruning. Proceedings of the IEEE ICDE \(San Diego, CA 13] F. Glover  Tabu Search for Nonlinear and Parametric Optimization \(with Links to Genetic Algorithms  Discrete Applied Mathematics 49 \(1-3 14] M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H Toivonen, and A. Verkamo, Finding interesting rules from large sets of discovered association rules. Proceedings of the ACM CIKM, International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(Kansas City, Missouri 1999 15] C. Ordonez, C. Santana, and L. de Braal, Discovering Interesting Association Rules in Medical Data. Proceedings of the IEEE Advances in Digital Libraries Conference Baltimore, MD 16] W. Perrizo, Peano count tree technology lab notes Technical Report NDSU-CS-TR-01-1, 2001 http://www.cs.ndsu.nodak. edu /~perrizo classes/785/pct.html. January 2003 17] Ron Raymon, An SE-tree based Characterization of the Induction Problem. Proceedings of the ICML, International Conference on Machine Learning \(Washington, D.C 275, 1993 18] N. Shivakumar, and H. Garcia-Molina, Building a Scalable and Accurate Copy Detection Mechanism Proceedings of the International Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries, 1996 19] P. Tan, and V. Kumar, Interestingness Measures for Association Patterns: A Perspective, KDD  2000 Workshop on Post-processing in Machine Learning and Data Mining Boston, 2000 20] H.R. Varian, and P. Resnick, Eds. CACM Special Issue on Recommender Systems. Communications of the ACM 40 1997 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


