Entropy based Intrusion Detection Kenichi Yoshida Graduate School of Business Science, University of Tsukuba Otsuka 3-29-1 Bunkyo Tokyo 112-0012 Japan yoshida@gssm,otsuka.tsukuba.ac.jp Abslmcl-An intrusion detection system b an'hportant component in protecting computer security Most of the current commady available intrusion detection systems use signature based rules to detect attacks A serious defect with this approach is that it only detects attacks that have been sten previously It cannot deteet newly encountered attacks As a means to overcome tbis defect various 
resear bas been undertaken using data mining to automatieally detect newly encountered attacks Our researeh foUows this approach However we propose the use of an entropy based data mining method without using the APlUOlU based data mining method wbich b commonly used in the previous rcb on intrusion detection Because the results of AF'RIORI are noisy post-pmnssing of its results are necessary However the use of eutropy alleviates tbis defect I INTRODUCTION 
An intrusion detection system is an impottant component to protect computer security Most of the current commercially available intrusion detection systems use signature-based rules to detect attacks A serious defect with this approach is that it only detects attacks that have been seen previously It cannot detect newly encountered attacks As a means to overcome this defect various research has been undertaken which use data mining to automatically detect newly encountered attacks See 1]-[3 forexamples\Our research follows this approach However we propose the use of an entropy based data mining method 4 51 without using the AF'RIORI based data mining method 61 which has been commonly used in previous research 
on intrusion detection A typical approach to intrusion detection with AF'RIORI is to 1 First build a profile of normal intrusion free behavior of computer systems and networks 2 Then the anomalous deviations from this normal behavior are considered as poten tial intrusions APRIORI is used in the first step to extract the profile. Here the profile is represented as a typical sequence of events in the system The basic algorithm of APFZORI which mines association rules from given data was introduced by Agrawal et al in 61 It finds all association rules that have sup port greater than the user-specified minimum support called MinSup Thus 
AF'RIORI in intrusion detection systems finds typical event sequences as the system profile Note that the result of AF'RIORI involves association rules with contradictions In other words the result of AF'RIORI is noisy and the post-processing of the results is necessary in order to use those results in the intrusion detection systems For example Barbara et al 2 use the classification rule learning system in their system Motivated by the problem of efficiently transmitting in formation over a noisy communication channel Shannon introduced a probabilistic way of thinking about communi cation and simultaneously created the mathematical theory of entropy Since entropy has many excellent characteristics to guide the search for rules a lot of classification rule learning systems uses this index to guide their search See 
71 for examples The entropy based data mining method uses this concept to guide the search for association rules and can mine association rules with much support and less contradictions Thus, it doesn't have a defect which is common to intrusion detection systems associated with the APRIORI based data mining method In this paper we propose the use of the entropy based data mining method to realize intrusion detection systems A brief survey of intrusion detection systems and data mining methods are also presented to clarify the advantage of our approach over AF'RIORI based intrusion detection systems 11 DATA MINING IN INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEMS To detect newly encountered attacks various research has been undertaken which use data 
mining as the key component Figure 1 shows the basic framework Systems that follow this framework use a data mining engine to pre-analyze the behavior of the target system In the learning phase they build a profile of normal intrusion free behavior of computer systems and networks Then anomalous deviations from this normal behavior ate considered as potential intrusions in the actual working phase Other types of systems directly make signatures from the behavior of the intrusion in the learning phase and use them in the actual working phase. Both types of systems use the learned behaviors as the signatures for intrusion detection Human experts have to invest a large amount of effort to update signatures so that those signatures can detect new intrusions in the 
conventional IDS However the framework proposed in this paper automates the update of signatures. Stolfo et al I and Barbara et al 2 for example report a typical method used in this framework Manganaris et al 3 also uses data mining tools for intrusion detection But they use a data mining tool to post process results of conventional IDSs As the number of clients converted by the IDS increases the volume of alarms gener ated by the conventional signature based IDS tends to become intractable This problem is aggravated by the fact that some sensors generate a large number of innocent alarms To filter 0-7803-797&0/03/$17.00 ZOO3 IEEE 840 


Fig 1 lnmsion Detection System wiul Dan Mining Engine out innocent alarms and only report real signs of intrusion they use data mining techniques Since the use of data mining for intrusion detection has become an impottant theme to protect computer security DARPA evaluates various systems and reports their perfor mances 8 Other studies not mentioned above include 9 IO and Ill Lundin et al 9 proposes a method to proiect privacy from data mining analysis without decreasing the performance of intrusion detection. Lippmann et al IO uses an anificial neural network to improve the performance of intrusion detection Lee et al I I discusses the framework and advantages to using data mining in IDS together with its limitations Most of the above mentioned approaches use APRIORI 6 as their data mining engine APRIORI finds all association rules that have support greater than the user-specified min imum support called MinSup Thus the use of APRIORI requires careful tuning of the MinSup parameter To analyze intrusions at a backbone segment with a large amount of traffic or a large e-commerce site MinSup has to be large enough to eliminate noise To analyze intrusions at a small site MinSup has to be small enough to catch trifle sized trails Although our research uses data mining techniques in IDS Section lV proposes an approach to alleviate this problem 111 SELECTING DATA MINING RESULTS The basic algorithm of APRIORI which mines association rules from given data, was introduced by Agrawal et al in 6 Figure 2 shows the outline The input data base D is a large table whose column collects attribute values During the first loop it finds all of the attribute values which appear more than MinSup times as itemseu 4 Then it finds the combination of the two attribute values which appears more than MinSup during the second loop as the extended ilemseu Fz During the Nth loop it finds the combination of the N attribute values i.e FN by extending the results of the previous loop Finally, the combination of the attribute values i.e itemsets are considered as associa tion rules and this algorithm finds all association rules that have support greater than the user-specified minimum support called MinSup Although it is the mostly used and well studied algorithm in data mining field See 12 for the general survey and comparison it always requires careful tuning of MinSup parameter. Suppose we have a data base and there exists 1 Input output begin D  Data Base MinSup  Integer F FQ  0 F+0 i=O while F  0 do  Frequent Itemsets in D Ci  Candidate itemsets that are extensions off in F F,+1  CE Ci  c appears at least MinSup times in D F c F U F,+i i=i+l end Fig 2 Algorithm of APRIORI tule X which has 100 supporting data items in the data base with 200 contradicting data items and 2 rule Y which has 99 supporting data items with no contracting data items If we set MinSup as 100 APRIORI only finds rule X To find rule Y we have to use a smaller MinSup which tends to produce more noisy results ADAM 2 uses the classification rule learning system to post process the results of the association rule mining system This seems to alleviate the problem associated with a small MinSup ADAM first builds a repository of normal frequent itemsets that are held during the attack-free period of a TCP dump audit trail An association rule mining system is used in this first step It then uses a classification rule learning system to discriminate suspicious connections of attacks and innocent alarmS The combination of the association rule mining system and the classification rule learning system has also been thoroughly studied in the data mining field Liu et al I31 undertook a pioneering study on the combination of the association rule mining system and the classification rule learning system Li et al I41 reported a method to improve both the efficiency and accuracy of a combined system Liu et al I51 and Wang et al 1161 also reported on such combined systems Another impomt trend is the U of other indexes to select rules Liu et al I51 uses the ratio of the class in the data base Li et al I41 and Liu et al I71 use xz test Smyth et al 4 and Meretkis et al IS use entropy related indexes Bayardo et al 19 compares various indexes for rule selection IV ENTROPY BASED INTRUSION DETECTION In this study, we propose the use of the entropy based data mining method for intrusion detection More precisely, we use the graph-based induction GBI method 5 for rule finding GBI was originally designed as a frequent sub-graph finding algorithm ZO The algorithm to extract sub-graphs named 841 


conventional classification rule learning system Although the conventional classification rule learning system uses attribute value tables for data representation GBI uses directed colored graph To use GBI for classification rule learning class information is represented as the color of root nodes 4 1 4 and 8 in Figure 3 The value of attribute is coded as the color of The information gain, which measures how a new test T affects entroov and contributes classification of data set D is defined connecting nodes 2 5 6 3 7 2 6 6 3 and 9 in Figure 3 _ Information gain T as Fig 3 Algorithm of GBI stepwise pair expansion is outlined bellow  First the input graph is contracted according to the extracted Sub-graphs Every occurrence of the extracted sub-graph in the input graph is replaced by a single node in Step 1 Figure 3 assumes that I the algorithm has already extracted two sub-graphs \(sub-graph A 4-2 and sub-graph B 3+3 2 each occurrence of the sub graph 4-2 is replaced by a single node A and 3 each occunence of the sub-graph 1-3 is replaced by a single node B In this step the incoming edges are ordered and the equivalence between the corresponding edges is examined In Step 2 the contracted'graph is analyzed and every possible Sub-graph, called a pair, that is made up of two linked nodes is extracted from the contracted graph In Figure 3 seven pairs are extracted  Steo 3 selects the best oair or airs which satisfv certain lGil  Entropy\(D  Entropy\(G C.EG IDl where n Entropy\(D  p;log,p is1 and Gi is a subset of D classified by the test T p is the probability of class i To use GBI for association rule mining the color of root nodes may not represent class information However, during the calculation of information gain it is treated as if it represents class information By doing this the information gain chooses pairs with much suppon and less contradictions Figure 4 shows the system configuration under development This configuration is modeled on the system proposed in 3 except the data mining engine Our intentions of this configuration are criteria In Figure 3 pair B+7 is selected as the best pair The selected pair is then expanded to the original sub graph and added to the set Of the extracted sub-graphs In Figure 3 pair Be7 is expanded to sub-graph 1-3-7 since the node B is the replacement of the sub-graph  The use of an entropy based data mining engine alleviate the defect inherent m conventional approaches  The use of sensors. which conventional IDSs use, to find the basic signs of intrusion 1-3 Starting from the empty set of the extracted sub-graphs this algorithm can extract various sub-graphs which appear frequently in the input graph By repeating these steps it extracts complex sub-graphs in a step-by-step manner The expanding process in Step 3 contributes to finding complex sub-graphs Note that if Step 3 selects pairs which appear more than MinSup times this algorithm can be seen as an extension of AF'RIORI Although APRIORI uses attribute value tables for data representation GBI uses a colored directed graph 5 Also if Step 3 selects a best pair based on the entropy based index this algorithm can be seen as an extension of the IDS has to analyze various information sources to find in trusions For example Barbara et al 2 analyze the TCP dump audit trail Cabrera et al 1211 analyze sequences of system calls Some intrusion needs special knowledge about the TCPiIP protocol To treat this information in a unified way we select an alarm log of conventional IDSs as the input for our entropy based IDS We also plan to use internal OS information As reponed in 51 internal OS information such as process invoking relationships and U0 relationships between processes have richer information than the system sequence call used in 21 The use of GBI also enables this analysis and seems to improve the performance of intrusion detection.84 842 


Alarm rplamr sandldates In AcMll Worldng phsn  I Convsntiml IDS t t I I T~Sy.!ml/NelWOR Fig 4 Entropy based Inmion Detection System V CONCLUSION The use of an entropy based data mining method to realize intrusion detection systems was proposed The result of the conventional approach is noisy and the post-processing of the results is necessary However the use of entropy alleviates this defect A brief survey of intrusion detection systems and data mining methods were also presented to clarify the advantage of our approach over APRIORI based intrusion detection systems REFERENCES I S J Stolfo W Lee P K Chan W Fan and E kin Data mining-based intrusion detecton An ovaview of the columbia ids project SIGMOD Record vol 30 no 4 pp 5-14 Dsember 2WI  Available hUp:llwww.afm.arglrigmodlncord/issues/0 I1 2 2 D Barbara J Couto S Jajodia  and N Wu Adam A testbed for crploring the use of data mining in intrusion detedon SIGMOD Record vol 30 no 4 pp 1S24 Dtsunbcr 2001 Onhe Available hnp~/~..aan.orglsig~~recor~issuesl0ll?J 31 S Manganaris M Quistcnsen D and K Hermiz A data mining analysis of nid alarm Cornpurer Netwo vol 30 no 4 pp 57 1-577 Octok ZWO Online Available hnpll/www.infomatk.uni uierdd Iey/dWjournalr/cdcn34.hld 4 P Smyth and R M Goodman An information theoretic approach lo rule induction from databass IEEE Trmacrionr on Knowkdge and Darn fighering vol 4 no 4 pp 301-316 Aug 1992 5 H.'Moloda and K Yoshida Machine laming techniques to malre cornputen easier to use Ani@ial I~elligcncc vol 103 no 1 pp 295-321 1998 161 R Agrawal T Imielinski and A N Swami Mining associadon rules between seu of items in large databases in Pmcccldngr of rhe 1993 ACM SIGMOD htemnlionnl Conjenncr on Mmgmenr of Darn P Buneman and S Jajodia E Washington D.C 2628 1993 pp 207-216 Available hnp:l/cil-r.nj.nec.co~~grawal93mi~"g.html 7 J R Qdinlan Induction of decision uees Machine Learning vol I no I  81-106 1986 R Lippmann I W Hainen D J Fried J Korba and K Das The 1999 darpi off-line intrusion detection evaluation Compuvr Network vol 30 no 4 pp 579-595 October 2000 Online Available hup:llwvnv.informatiL.uni-trier.dc ley/db/joumalr/cdcn34.hml E Lundin and E JONSOD Anomaly-based invurion detection privacy concern and other problems Compuur Ncmork vol 30 no 4 pp 623-640 Oclok 2000 Online Available hUp:/Iw.infomatLl;uni uier.de ley/db/journaldd"i34.html IO R Lippmm and R K Cunningham Improving inwdon detedoll pcrfonnanee using keyword selection and neural nerworlr Compunr Network vol 30 no 4 pp 597 603 October 2000  Available http://www.informuik.uni uier.&J ky/db/joumalddcn34 html Ill W Lee and W Fan Mining syslem audit data Opponunitis and challenges SIGMOD Record vol 30 no 4 pp 3544 December 2001 Onlim Available h~:l/~.~m.org~~~~~~~i I I2 I21 J Hipp U GiinUer and G Nakhaeizddeh Algarithmr for association rule mining  a general survey and comparison SIGKDD Explodionr vol 2 no I.'pp 58-64 July 2000  Available hop://eitewer.nj.ncc.co~ipp00algorimms.l I31 B Liu W Hsu and Y Ma Integrating clarrifiCation and association rule mining in Knowledge Discovery and Dofo Mining 1998 pp 8s 86 Onlinel Available hu~JIci/cita~m~j.nec.c~~~98inre$atinghrm based on multiple class-association ruls in ICDM 2001 pp 369-376 Onlim Available hnp:llcitscer.nj.nec.comlliOl cmar.hrml IS B Liu Y Ma C.-K Wong and P S Yu Scoring the data using association rules Applkd Invlligcncc vol 18 no 2 pp llP.135 2003 I61 K Wang S Zhou and Y He Growing decision mes on support-less association rules in Knowledge Discovery Md Detn Mining 2000 pp 26S269 Online Available hnp:llcitesea.nj.nec.co~wan~g~~~"g.h I71 B Liu W Hru and Y Ma Runing and summariring the discovered associations in Knowledge Discmrry MdDmo Mining 1999 pp 125 I 34 ordine Available hrrp-Ncites~rnj.oec.Comniu99prurunghrml IS D Mmkis and B Wuthnch Extending naive baycs clauiflcrs Urbg long itemsets in ACM SIGKDD l~emtioM1 Confermce on Knowl edge Dilcwcry mdDarn Mining IKDD-99 1999 pp 165-174 1191 R Bayardo and R Agrawal Mining the most intererling NI in Knowkdge Dircovery and Dorn Mining 1999 pp 145-154 1201 K.Yoshida H.Motoda and N.Lndurkhya Graph-bared induction as a unified learning framework Applied Inrrlligence vol 4 pp 297-316 1994 21 I Cabrera L Lewis and R Mehra Detection and classification of intrusions and faults using qucnces of system calls SIGMOD Record vol 30 w 4 pp 25-34 December 2001 Onlinel Available hnp:l/w~.aan.orglsigm~~~~~iss~~O I 121 I41 W Li J Han and 1 F'ei CMAR Accurate and cffl cient clasification 843 


almost the same result for different d 1 However, when the support is 0.1%, ItemRank can get best result when d is 0.2. Meanwhile, if d is more than 0.3, ItemRank algorithm could get only the same result we set the damping factor d equal to 0.2 for the higher profit. Fig.3 and Fig.4 both indicates that ItemRank has the more excellent performance than HAP and na\357ve approach when strong cross-selling factor exists between items. Although k spends the most time when selecting 10 ient than both HAP and na\357ve algorithm with the increasing of selected items 5.2. Results for HAP Worst-case Set We now illustrate the goodness of ItemRank by using the specially generated dataset where HAP may get the worst results because of the weaknesses of HAP 12  I n 1 2  th e y call t h e d a t a set H A P  w o r s tca se d a ta  set 2 and show how to generate it synthetically\. We generate HAP worst-case set by the following parameters: 1,000 items and 10,000 transactions. When minimize support is 0.05%, all items are frequent and there are 2194 frequent pairs. The profit distribution is the same with the above dataset In Fig. 5, the parameters in ItemRank algorithm is marked. The iteration number is the number in first bracket and the value of damping factor d is in the second bracket         minsupport=0.1 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 item selection p r o fi t Na\357ve HAP 0.2 0.8 0.8 0.8 Figure 5. Results with minsupp 0.05 Obviously, Na\357ve approach gets the worst result ItemRank algorithm gets the best result with the damping factor d 0.2 after 10 iterations. ItemRank gives the second smallest result with d 0.8 and 10 iterations. If the damping factor d is fixed on 0.8, ItemRank can get higher with the more iterations, However, it could not outperform HAP when the selection items are less than 70 From Fig. 5, we maybe draw a conclusion that people usually have 20% chance to purchase a relative item after they have purchased some item 6. Conclusions and Future work We use ItemRank algorithm to rank items which are influenced by the cross-selling effect among items based on microeconomic view. Customer behavior model is proposed for the implement of ItemRank algorithm, which presents the better performance than HAP. Comprehensive experiments indicate very satisfied results which confirm that ItemRank algorithm outperforms well-known algorithms: HAP and Na\357ve 7. References   K l e i nbe r g C  Pa pa dim itr iou, a nd P  R a gha va n, \215 A  Microeconomic View of Data Mining\216, In: J. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 1998, pp. 311-324  g ra w a l, a nd R. Sri k a n t, \215 F a s t A l gorit hm s for Mini ng  Association Rules\216, In: Proc. of 20th VLDB Conference  1994, pp. 487-499   G  Sw in ne n, K  V a nh oof, a nd G  We ts 215 T he U s e  of Association Rules for Product Assortment Decisions: a Case Study\216, In Proceedings of KDD 98, San Diego USA\, August 15-18, 1999, pp. 254-260   Wa n g S Zh ou, a nd J   H a n, \215 P rofit M i ni ng From  Patterns to Actions\216, Proc. 2002 Int. Conf. on Extending Data Base T echnology \(EDBT'02\, Pr ague, Czech, March 2002, pp. 70-87 5 n g an d A. Fu 215ISM It em Selectio n fo r Mark etin g  with Cross-Selling Considerations\216 PAKDD Sydney Australia, 2004, pp. 431-440   Wa ng, a n d M. S u Ite m Se le c tion b y 215 H ub-A u t hor ity\216  Profit Ranking. In: Proc. of ACM SIGKDD, 2002, pp 652-657 7 M Kl ei nb erg  215Aut ho ri t a t i v e S o u r ce i n a Hyp erl i n k e d Environment\216, In Proc. of the 9th ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, ACM, 1998, pp. 668-677 8 Wo ng  R   Fu  A. an d W a ng K 215M P I S M a xi mal P r o f i t Item Selection with Cross-selling Considerations\216, In Proc. of IEEE ICDM, 2003, pp. 371-378  r i n s  a nd L. Pa ge 215 T he A n a t om y of a La rge Sc a l e  Hypertextual Web Search Engine\216, In: Computer Networks and ISDN Systems, 30\(1-7\, 1998, pp. 107~117   A r a s u, J  N o va k, A  S   Tom kins a n d J  A  T o m lin  215Pagerank Computation and the Structure of the Web Experiments and Algorithms\216, In: Proc.WWW2002 Honolulu, 2002  g rw w a l, IBM s ynt h e tic da ta ge ne ra tor, htt p  www.almaden.ibm.com/cs/quest/syndata.html. 2004   Wo ng A  F u a n d K   Wa ng, \215 D a t a Mi nin g for In ve ntory Item Selection with Cross-selling Considerations\216, In the Journal of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2005 Proceedings of the 2005 International Conference on Cyberworlds \(CW\22205 0-7695-2378-1/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


Proceedings of the Third Intemational Conference on Machine Laming and Cybemetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 G Chen Q.Wei and E.E Kerre Fuzzy data mining Discovery of fuzzy generalized association rules G Bordogna and G. Pasi, \(eds Recent Issues on Fuzzy Databases. Springer-Verlag, 2000 G Chen P Yan and E Kerre Mining Fuzzy Implication-Based Association Rules in Quantitative Databases Proceedings of FLINS2002 Belgium 2002 M Delgado D Sanchez and M.A Vila. Acquisition of fuzzy association rules hm medical data S Barro and R Marin eds Fuzzy Logic in Medicine Physica Verlag, 2000 U Fayyad G Piatetsky-shapiro and P Smyth 223From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery An overview\224 Fayyad U Piatetsky-Shapiro G Smyth P and Uthu~samy R.\(eds Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Cambridge MA AAAI Press pp 1-30 1996 Gyenesei A fuzzy approach for mining quantitative association rules TUCS technical reports 336 University of Turku Department of Computer Science, Lemminkisenkatu 14 Finland 2000 E Hiillermeier and J Beringer Mining implication-based fuzzy association rules in datahases B Bouchon-Meunier L Foulloy and R.R Yager eds Intelligent Systems for Information Processing From Representation to Applications. Elsevier, 2003 12 E.E Kerre Introduction to the Basic Principles of Fuzzy Set Theory and Some of Its Application Communication  Cognition Gent Belgium 1991 13 G.J Klir and B Yuan Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Logic-Theory and Applications Prentice Hall New Jersey 1995 I41 C Man Kuok A Fu and M Hon Wong Mining fuzzy association rules in databases SIGMOD Record 27 pp.41-46 1998 U H Mannila H Toivonen, and I Verkamo, Efficient Algorithms for Discovering Association Rules Piatetsky-Shapim G and Frawley W J.\(eds Knowledge Discovery in Databases AAAI PressfIhe MIT Press MenIo Park Califomia 1991 I61 D Ruan and E.E Kerre Fuzzy implication operators and generalized fuzzy method of cases Fuzzy Sets and systems 54\(1 pp 23-38, 1993 I71 Savasere E Omiecinski and S Navathe An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Association Rules in Large Dtabses Proceedings of the 21st VLDB Conference, Zurich Swizerland pp 43243.1995 18 R Srikant and R Agrawal 223Mining Quantitative Association Rules in Large Relational Tables\224 Proc of 1996 ACM-SIGMOD Intemat Conference management of Data pp 1-12 Montreal Canada 1996  I91 http://www.epsilon.coml  http://www.ncc.up.pt 1640 


 7  s in all cases that the rule holds true. Rules with high support and confidence values are considered good rules  Confidence \(c  X Y X    Support \(s All Y X    There are several ways that we can employ the Association Rules technique into SOAs to assist in service discovery. In the next two paragraphs we will discuss two methods: the first one is to utilize user profiles and service access logs to find the rules, and the second is to examine the services within service workflow l ogs to find the co-occurrence pattern among data services, application services and userfacing services  As exhibited in Table 4, user profiles can be created based on user identity, specialized domains and interests. The following rules can be disclosed by studying the data: If a user is a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services are useful with 80% support and 100% confidence; If a user is a terrorism analyst and is interested in information about Al-Qaeda and Usama Bin Laden then data service 3 and 4 are good information sources with 40% support and 66% confidence  Table 5 showed six service workflows and revealed the following rules: If a link & group analysis service is used to analyze the data then a hyper bolic tree service is used to visualize the result with 33% support and 100% confidence If data service E is the data source then entity extraction service is used to work with the data with 33% support and 66% confidence  As illustrated above, what th is technique discovered is actually the association and relationship among services in SOA, which is not natively captured in the service registry The rules found can be used to advise proper services for users to leverage based on user profiles or on current selected services. For example, if a new user declares himself to be a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services can be recommended. Or when a user selects a link & group service, a hyperbolic tree service can be suggested to the user for visualization. He nce, the association rules technique helps to push individual services and even service workflows to the user  S ERVICE S EQUENTIAL A CCESS P ATTERNS   Sequential Patterns is an interesting data mining technique that has been used to discover customer purchase behavior web access patterns, and time related processes such as scientific experiments, natural disasters, and disease treatments. Its goal is to find inter-transaction patterns such that the presence of a set of items is followed by another item in the time-stamp ordered transaction set  In SOA, this technique can be used to discover users service access patterns in temporal order. For example among users who are working on terrorism information analysis, link & group analysis services are usually called within one hour after accessing an entity extractor service In some scenarios, the sequential patterns technique can also be used to determine which services in the same service categories are more effective. Table 6 demonstrates three analysis processes of differe nt analysts. In all three processes, we can see the r ecurring pattern: the combination of service 1, service 4, and se rvice 8 is always replaced by the combination of service 1, service 5, and service 8, which shows that service 5 probably has more advantage than service 4 when dealing with a specific topic, in this case Al-Qaeda, financial sources”, even though both of them are relevant  Analysis Process Sequences start with RFI user 1  1. search service related to “Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 4, 8 4. view the result 5. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 5. save service flow for the RFI start with existing service flow user 2 1. load existing service flow with services 1, 4, 8 saved for RFI about “Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 3. save the modification start with RFI user 3  1. search service related to “Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 5, 8 and view the result 4. modify the service flow to replace service 5 with service 4 and view the result 5. reverse back to service 1, 5, 8 and save service flow for the RFI  Table 6Sequential Pattern in Analysis Process 5  A PPLICATION OF S ERVICE R ATING  Service Rating technique allows service consumers to review and rate services based on a set of criterias.  The review and rating then serve as references for other service consumers to inquire. The set of criterias covers service performance, availability accuracy, validity and effectiveness  Before delving into service rating technique in detail, let us first take a step back and have a look at our everyday life When people are planning to purchase a product or a 


 8 service, reviews and ratings from other customers generally play a very important role in our decision  Whenever planning to go to a restaurant, reserve a hotel purchase a car, or buy a book, people will always want to check consumer guides and any customer reviews available even if they have already got enough information from the product vendor or service provider. You may also want to call your friends to see what they think if they happen to have any experience with the product or the service, and you take their opinions and suggestions very seriously  Amazon has implemented a product review and rating mechanism that enables cust omers to share information about products. In the A9 tool just cam e out i t st art s  to capture review and rating fo r virtual product-website too In SOA, service is also virtual product. The information in the service registry is provided by service provider however a service consumer may have a totally different view from what the provider claims.  This is where a feedback loop becomes increasingly important  By incorporating users’ feedback about services in the format of reviews and ratings into a SOA, service consumers have a 360-degree view of services. They have an opportunity to know more about service performance effectiveness and reliability before making a selection among relevant services, which they were not able to do via the data captured in a re gular service registry   Performance Effectiveness Service Review Service Rating Extended Service Registry Inquiry Reliability  Figure 6Service Review and Service Rating  Service rating provides an overall evaluation for a service while service review provides detailed evaluations in text format.  Reviews and ratings that come from the same user group are especially interesting, since they represent opinions from a community of users with the same interests and same requirements for servi ces. With the latest service reviews and ratings bearing heavier weight, service improvements can be reflected and taken into consideration  By employing service ratings, analysts will gain the ability to focus efforts on highly rated services that are more likely to provide better results. This will allow the process to be more efficient by reducing the number of ineffective and unproductive queries and analysis 6  E XTENDED S YSTEM A RCHITECTURE  In order to take advantage of the data mining technology and service rating techniques discussed in section 4 and section 5, we propose an extended SOA infrastructure to enable pattern and association discovery, service rating and review capturing, dynamic COI construction and inquiry of all the above information  As depicted in Figure 7, the service registry that usually holds service metadata provided by service vendor is extended to include service access patterns, service associations and recurring service flows. New data structures are created in the re gistry to hold these additional information. Based on the examples in section 4 classification of “useful for te rrorism analysis” can be added to service entries of Evidence Entity Link Discovery Service, Entity Extractor service and Link & Group Analysis service \(Table 1, 2\ in the registry. Clusters of services: service 1, 2, 3, 4; service 5; and service 6, 7, 8,9 10 \(Table 3 and entity extraction service and link & group analysis service and hyperbolic tree service \(Table 5 service flow of service 1, 5, 8 \(Table 6\l be captured in the registry. With the information available, when a user inquires about a service from the registry, he can not only get the service metadata, but also get the other services that always co-occur with the current service, similar services and service workflows that the current service often participates in  The service registry is also extended to store service rating and reviews. After interacting with the services, service consumers can rate the service or write review about their experience and publish it to the service registry. The feedbacks are then available while other users look up the services. In the Service Seque ntial Access Patterns example four application services are returned for a RFI about “AlQaeda”, “Financial Sources within which service 5 may have the highest average rating in Effectiveness and Performance. With this information, a user will immediately know that service 5 is the probably the best candidate to pick  In addition to the service re gistry, a user registry is introduced into the architectur e. It captures basic user profile such as name, profession, and interested domains. In addition to that the user registry also serves as a “group registry” and captures user groups of same interest-COIs From the user clustering example in section 4, user clusters  


 9   Figure 7 Extended SOA Infrastructure w ith Pattern/Rating Services  of user A, C, G; user F; and user B, D, E, H can be stored in the “group registry” for inquiry. Different from most of the COIs we encounter today, the COIs here are dynamically constructed and updated by running clustering algorithm on users’ access log of the services. If a user’s interest in terrorism analysis changes from “Al-Qaeda” to “Saddam Hussein”, it will be reflected in the dynamic user groups  To support the new features of service registry and user registry, the interface of Regi stry Service in the Core Enterprise Services block is also extended to enable publishing and querying additional information  The service blocks tier is expanded to include another set of data mining and rating related services Patterns/Associations services offer the capability of service classification, service clusteri ng, service associations and sequential access patterns discove ry. Dynamic COI services cluster users in a dynamic fashion. Both of them interact with ESM to gain access to th e service access log and user it as the input for various data mining algorithms Rating/Review services provi de the interface to define rating criteria, and capture users’ reviews and ratings  Companies like Amazon and eBay have utilized similar sets of data mining and rating services to provide a high level of quality to their customers.  The increase in quality and information leads to an increas ed customer base, increased participation in the “community,” and ultimately to increased satisfaction.  The same paradigm can be applied to the Intelligence Community providing leverage to support the analytical and collaborative process  These new capabilities will enable a more intelligent system that will better support the analyst.  By leveraging standard” advantages of a SOA, these new extension will offer additional advantages to the end user.  With a SOA analysts will have the ability to discover and bind to new services on the network dynamically.  With the new techniques behind data mining and service rating applied to the SOA, analysts will be able to make better determinations on what serv ices will best support their needs  Further, these services can support the next generation of systems built around agent technologies.  With the necessary infrastructure in pl ace, intelligent ag ents can be built to automate many of the service discovery and orchestration steps taken manually today.  This additional increase in automation will allow analysts to spend less time searching and more time analyzing 7  S UMMARY  By combining data mining technology and service rating techniques into a SOA-enabled problem solving space within the Intelligence Community, analysts are able to utilize expertise and knowledge from other analysts to quickly discover services in a meaningful way and compose services into workflows  With the assistance of service mining, service usage mining and service rating, analysts can navigate through services  Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Service Profiling Intelligent Agents End-to-End Application End Users  Services Blocks Application Services Information Data Process Services BPEL User-Facing Services WSRP Extended Core Enterprise Services Security Messaging Extended Registry \(UDDI ESM Data Mining Services/Rating Services Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Rating/Review Extended Registry Store Service Registry Patterns Associations Service Flows Service Rating/Review User Registry COIs 


 10 available on the network effi ciently and effectively by utilizing service access pattern, service associations dynamic COI and service reviews. These techniques will enable analysts to be successful even when confronted with the challenge of service overload as more services begin to populate the network R EFERENCES   Hom eland Security Efforts to Im prove Inform ation Sharing Need to Be Strengthened”, GAO http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03760.pdf  2 Secu rity Classificatio n  Un ited States In tellig en ce Community http://www.intelligence gov/2-character_classification.shtml  3 Un ited  States In tellig en ce Co m m u n ity Ho m e”, Un ited  States Intelligence Community http://www.intelligence.gov   John St enbi t  M ovi ng Power t o t h e Edge http://www.chips.navy.mil/a rchives/03_su mmer/web%20pa ges/stenbit.htm   SOAP 1.2 http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part0   OASIS Uni v ersal Descri pt i on Di scovery  and Integration \(UDDI http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=uddi-spec   W e b Servi ces Descri pt i on Language \(W SDL http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl20   e b Service Orchestrati on-Business Process Execution Language \(BPEL http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsbpel   W e b Services for Rem o te Portlets W SRP http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsrp   e b Services Interope rability Organization \(WS-I http://www.ws-i.org   W 3 C Sem a nt i c W e b Servi ces Int e rest Group \(SW I G  http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/swsig    IB M  Soft ware Group. “Servi ce Ori e nt ed Archi t ect ure and Web Services http://www-306.ibm.com/software/solutions/webservices   R e gi s C oqueret  IB M Soft ware Group, “SOA and W e b Services – Foundation for an On Demand Operating Environment     M a noel  M e ndonca, Nancy L. Sunderhaft  M i n i ng Software Engineering Data A Survey- A DACS State-ofthe-Art Report   R  C ool ey B  M obasher, and J. Sri v ast a va, “W eb Mining: Information and Pattern Discovery on the World Wide Web”, 9th IEEE Intern ational Conference on Tools with Artificial In telligence \(ICTAI'1997   eb Mining: Accomplishments Future Directions http://www.cicomra.org.ar/eventosycursos/ECA2004/Prese ntaciones/Tutorials/Srivastava.pdf   Pattern Discovery Software Sy stem LTD. “Data Mining And Discover*E-A whilte paper on PDS Data Mining Technology http://www.patterndiscovery.com/eng/tech/discovere_white paper.pdf   Bahzad, Mortazavi-AsI, Jianyong Wang, Helen Pinto, Qiming Chen, Mei-Chun Hsu, “Mining Sequential Patterns by Pattern-Growth: The PrefixSpan Approach”, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Oct. 2004   Dat a M i ni ng, Knowl e dge Di scovery Genom i c M i ni ng Web Mining http://www.kdnuggets.com    Eri c Yuan, Greg W e nzel Enabl i ng Tot a l Inform at i on Awareness With Grid Services”, 2003 IEEE Aerospace Conference   B a s Jansen, “Servi ce Profi l i ng i n B u si ness t o  B u si ness Web Services”, http://www.basj ansen.com/serviceprofiling  22] Google Search Engi ne. http://www.google.com   Am azon Online Store, http://www,am azon.com   24 Am azo n A9 to o l b a r, h ttp to o l b a r.a9 co m  


 11 B IOGRAPHY  Ying Chen is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. She has 5 years of professional experience in system design and development with J2EE and SOA technologies. She is now involved in a research and development project in support of United States Intelligence Community, designing and implementing Advanced Information Sharing and Collaboration solutions. She holds an MS degree in Computer Sc ience from Virginia Tech and BS degree in Computer Science from Fudan University in Shanghai, China  Brad Cohen is an Associate with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc He has 8 years of professional experience in developing and implementing enterprise-class systems for both commercial and government applications.  Currently he is serving as the technical manager on a research and development project in support of the United States Intelligence Community.  He holds an MBA and MS in Information Systems, and a BS in Decision and Information Scien ces from the University of Maryland, College Park   


Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 7 Conclusion and Future Work References frontier  pages 487\320499 Morgan Kaufmann 1994  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2003 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi03  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2004 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi04  J  Han J  Pei and Y  Y in Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation In Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB VLDB Journal Very Large Data Bases Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery An International Journal Lecture Notes in Computer Science  2004  J W ang and G Karypis Harmon y Ef 336ciently mining the best rules for classi\336cation In The Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD\32504 Symposium on Principles of Database Systems 2 b Average time taken per frequent itemset shown on two scales T10I4D100K is increased and hence the number of frequent items decreases Figure 5\(c also shows that the maximum frontier size is very small Finally we reiterate that we can avoid using the pre\336x tree and sequence map so the only space required are the itemvectors and the minSup SIAM International Conference on Data Mining required drops quite quickly as ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues in Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intl Conference on Management of Data Figure 5 Results  8\(3\3204 2000  F  P an G C ong A T ung J Y ang and M Zaki Carpenter Finding closed patterns in long biological datasets In  2121:236 2001  M Steinbach P N T an H Xiong and V  K umar  Generalizing the notion of support In a Runtime ratios T10I4D100K c Number of Itemvectors needed and maximum frontier size T10I4D100K  pages 1\32012 ACM Press May 2000  F  K orn A Labrinidis Y  K otidis and C F aloutsos Quanti\336able data mining using ratio rules  Morgan Kaufmann 2003  J Pei J Han and L Lakshmanan Pushing convertible constraints in frequent itemset mining We showed interesting consequences of viewing transaction data as itemvectors in transactionspace and developed a framework for operating on itemvectors This abstraction gives great 337exibility in the measures used and opens up the potential for useful transformations on the data Our future work will focus on 336nding useful geometric measures and transformations for itemset mining One problem is to 336nd a way to use SVD prior to mining for itemsets larger than  pages 205\320215 2005  We also presented GLIMIT a novel algorithm that uses our framework and signi\336cantly departs from existing algorithms GLIMIT mines itemsets in one pass without candidate generation in linear space and time linear in the number of interesting itemsets Experiments showed that it beats FP-Growth above small support thresholds Most importantly it allows the use of transformations on the data that were previously impossible  That is the space required is truly linear  D Achlioptas Database-friendly random projections In  2001  R Agra w al and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In  8:227\320252 May 2004  J Pei J Han and R Mao CLOSET An ef 336cient algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets In  pages 21\32030 2000  S Shekhar and Y  Huang Disco v ering spatial colocation patterns A summary of results 


mator from sensor 1 also shown 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper derives a Bayesian procedure for track association that can solve a large scale distributed tracking problem where many sensors track many targets. When noninformative prior of the target state is assumed, the single target test becomes a chi-square test and it can be extended to the multiple target case by solving a multidimensional assignment problem. With the noninformative prior assumption, the optimal track fusion algorithm can be a biased one where the regularized estimate has smaller mean square estimation error. A regularized track fusion algorithm was presented which modifies the optimal linear unbiased fusion rule by a less-than-unity scalar. Simulation results indicate the effectiveness of the proposed track association and fusion algorithm through a three-sensor two-target tracking scenario 7. REFERENCES 1] Y. Bar-Shalom and W. D. Blair \(editors Tracking: Applications and Advances, vol. III, Artech House, 2000 2] Y. Bar-Shalom and H. Chen  Multisensor Track-to-Track Association for Tracks with Dependent Errors  Proc. IEEE Conf. on Decision and Control, Atlantis, Bahamas, Dec. 2004 3] Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li, Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Principles and Techniques, YBS Publishing, 1995 4] Y. Bar-Shalom, X. R. Li and T. Kirubarajan, Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation: Algorithms and Software for Information Extraction, Wiley, 2001 5] S. Blackman, and R. Popoli  Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems  Artech House, 1999 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 1 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 0 2 


2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 2 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion Fig. 7. Comparison of the NEES for centralized IMM estimator \(configuration \(i estimators \(configuration \(ii sensor 1 also shown 6] H. Chen, T. Kirubarajan, and Y. Bar-Shalom  Performance Limits of Track-to-Track Fusion vs. Centralized Estimation: Theory and Application  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems 39\(2  400, April 2003 7] H. Chen, K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan and Y. Bar-Shalom  Data Association with Possibly Unresolved Measurements Using Linear Programming  Proc. 5th ONR/GTRI Workshop on Target Tracking Newport, RI, June 2002 8] Y. Eldar, and A. V. Oppenheim  Covariance Shaping Least-Square Estimation  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 51\(3 pp. 686-697 9] Y. Eldar  Minimum Variance in Biased Estimation: Bounds and Asymptotically Optimal Estimators  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(7 10] Y. Eldar, A. Ben-Tal, and A. Nemirovski  Linear Minimax Regret Estimation of Deterministic Parameters with Bounded Data Uncertainties  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(8 Aug. 2004 11] S. Kay  Conditional Model Order Estimation  IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 49\(9 12] X. R. Li, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, and C. Han  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part I: Unified Fusion Rules  IEEE Trans. Information Theory, 49\(9  2208, Sept. 2003 13] X. R. Li  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part VII: Dynamic Systems  in Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Information Fusion, Cairns, Australia, pp. 455-462, July 2003 14] X. D. Lin, Y. Bar-Shalom and T. Kirubarajan  Multisensor Bias Estimation Using Local Tracks without A Priori Association  Proc SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 


SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 5204 15] R. Popp, K. R. Pattipati, and Y. Bar-Shalom  An M-best Multidimensional Data Association Algorithm for Multisensor Multitarget Tracking  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems, 37\(1 pp. 22-39, January 2001 pre></body></html 


20 0  50  100  150  200  250  300 Pe rc en ta ge o f a dd iti on al tr af fic Cache size 200 clients using CMIP 200 clients using UIR c Figure 6. The percentage of additional traf?c the cache at every clock tick. A similar scheme has been proposed in [13], which uses fv, a function of the access rate of the data item only, to evaluate the value of each data item i that becomes available to the client on the channel If there exists a data item j in the client  s cache such that fv\(i j replaced with i A prefetch scheme based on the cache locality, called UIR scheme, was proposed in [7]. It assumes that a client has a large chance to access the invalidated cache items in the near future. It proposes to prefetch these data items if it is possible to increase the cache hit ratio. In [6], Cao improves the UIR scheme by reducing some unnecessary prefetches based on the prefetch access ratio \(PAR scheme, the client records how many times a cached data item has been accessed and prefetched, respectively. It then calculates the PAR, which is the number of prefetches divided by the number of accesses, for each data item. If the PAR is less than one, it means that the data item has been accessed a number of times and hence the prefetching is useful. The clients can mark data items as non-prefetching when PAR &gt; b, where b is a system tuning factor. The scheme proposes to change the value of b dynamically according to power consumption. This can make the prefetch scheme adaptable, but no clear methodology as to how and when b should be changed. Yin et al. [19] proposed a power-aware prefetch scheme, called value-based adaptive prefetch \(VAP the number of prefetches based on the current energy level to prolong the system running time. The VAP scheme de?nes a value function which can optimize the prefetch cost to achieve better performance These existing schemes have ignored the following characteristics of a mobile environment: \(1 query some data items frequently, \(2 during a period of time are related to each other, \(3 miss is not a isolated events; a cache miss is often followed by a series of cache misses, \(4 eral requests in one uplink request consumes little additional bandwidth but reduces the number of future uplink requests. In this paper, we addressed these issues using a cache-miss-initiated prefetch scheme, which is based on association rule mining technique. Association rule mining is a widely used technique in ?nding the relationships among data items. The problem of ?nding association rules among items is clearly de?ned by Agrawal et al. in [5]. However in the mobile environment, one cannot apply the existing association rule mining algorithm [4] directly because it is too complex and expensive to use This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in 


This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in twofold. First, we are interested in rules with only one data item in the antecedent and several data items in the consequent. Our motivation is to prefetch several data items which are highly related to the cache-miss data item within Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE the cache-miss initiated uplink request. We want to generate rules where the antecedent is one data item, but the cache-missed data item and the consequent is a series of data items, which are highly related to the antecedent. If we have such rules, we can easily ?nd the data items which should also be piggybacked in the uplink request. Second in mobile environment, the client  s computation and power resources are limited. Thus, the rule-mining process should not be too complex and resource expensive. It should not take a long time to mine the rules. It should not have high computation overhead. However, most of the association rule mining algorithms [4, 5] have high computation requirements to generate such rules 5. Conclusions Client-side prefetching technique can be used to improve system performance in mobile environments. However, prefetching also consumes a large amount of system resources such as computation power and energy. Thus, it is very important to only prefetch the right data. In this paper, we proposed a cache-miss-initiated prefetch \(CMIP scheme to help the mobile clients prefetch the right data The CMIP scheme relies on two prefetch sets: the alwaysprefetch set and the miss-prefetch set. Novel association rule based algorithms were proposed to construct these prefetch sets. When a cache miss happens, instead of sending an uplink request to only ask for the cache-missed data item, the client requests several items, which are within the miss-prefetch set, to reduce future cache misses. Detailed experimental results veri?ed that the CMIP scheme can greatly improve the system performance in terms of increased cache hit ratio, reduced uplink requests and negligible additional traf?c References 1] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Prefetching From a Broadcast Disk. Proc. Int  l Conf. on Data Eng., pages 276  285, Feb. 1996 2] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Balancing Push and Pull for Data Broadcast. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 183  194, May 1997 3] S. Acharya, R. Alonso, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Broadcast disks: Data Management for Asymmetric Communication Environments. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 199  210 May 1995 4] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In J. B. Bocca, M. Jarke, and C. Zaniolo editors, Proc. 20th Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases, VLDB pages 487  499. Morgan Kaufmann, 12  15 1994 5] R. Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, and Arun Swami. Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207  216, Washington, D.C May 1993 6] G. Cao. Proactive Power-Aware Cache Management for Mobile Computing Systems. IEEE Transactions on Computers, 51\(6  621, June 2002 7] G. Cao. A Scalable Low-Latency Cache Invalidation Strategy for Mobile Environments. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 15\(5 ber/October 2003 \(A preliminary version appeared in ACM MobiCom  00 8] K. Chinen and S. Yamaguchi. An Interactive Prefetching Proxy Server for Improvement of WWW Latency. In Proc INET 97, June 1997 9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for docu 


9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for document transfer: A new approach for reducing web latency. In Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, pages 854  863, 2000 10] R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava. Data preparation for mining world wide web browsing patterns. Knowledge and Information Systems, 1\(1  32, 1999 11] C. R. Cunha, Azer Bestavros, and Mark E. Crovella. Characteristics of WWW Client Based Traces. Technical Report TR-95-010, Boston University, CS Dept, Boston, MA 02215, July 1995 12] D. Duchamp. Prefetching hyperlinks. In USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems \(USITS  99 1999 13] V. Grassi. Prefetching Policies for Energy Saving and Latency Reduction in a Wireless Broadcast Data Delivery System. In ACM MSWIM 2000, Boston MA, 2000 14] S. Hameed and N. Vaidya. Ef?cient Algorithms for Scheduling Data Broadcast. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  193, May 1999 15] Q. Hu and D. Lee. Cache Algorithms based on Adaptive Invalidation Reports for Mobile Environments. Cluster Computing, pages 39  48, Feb. 1998 16] Z. Jiang and L. Kleinrock. An Adaptive Network Prefetch Scheme. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 16\(3  11, April 1998 17] V. Padmanabhan and J. Mogul. Using Predictive Prefetching to Improve World Wide Web Latency. Computer Communication Review, pages 22  36, July 1996 18] N. Vaidya and S. Hameed. Scheduling Data Broadcast in Asymmetric Communication Environments. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  182, May 1999 19] L. Yin, G. Cao, C. Das, and A. Ashraf. Power-Aware Prefetch in Mobile Environments. IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems \(ICDCS 2002 Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


um be r o f C he ck ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 6. The Number of Checked Patterns on the Pumsb Data Set 10 100 1000 10000 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 R un T im e s ec  Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 7. The RunTime Comparison on the Pumsb Data Set The runtime comparison of MHP and MAFIA on the Pumsb* data set is shown in Figure 5. In the ?gure, we can observe that the runtime of MHP can be signi?cantly reduced with the increase of h-con?dence thresholds. Also the runtime of MHP can be several orders of magnitude less than that of MAFIA even if the h-con?dence threshold is as low as 0.3. The reason is that the number of checked patterns of MHP is sign?cantly smaller than that of MAFIA Similar results are also obtained from the pumsb data set as shown in Figure 6 and Figure 7. For the pumsb data set the number of checked patterns of MHP is much smaller 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207–216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Int’l Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Int’l Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00 © 2004 IEEE 





