The Application in Data Mining by Integrating Matter-Element with Fuzzy Theory Hung-Jin Chen Department of Electronics Engineering De Lin Institute of Technology Taipei, Taiwan 236 R.O.C hichenBdlit.edu.tw Transaction ID 100 Abstract  Owing to the threshold setting in generating association rules the dependencies and implicit meanings ofproducts should be different ifone considers the quantify of ever\item for instance the TIDl[\(A,9 B,4 and TIDZ[\(A,2 B,I 
to infer large item set ABC from item set AB from transaction database or market-basket-data Hence In order to improve the subjective of point view setting affer generated association rules the matter-element transformation of Extincs is applied and the eld of characteristic of matter-element description in Extenics will be replaced with the quantity of every item of corresponding value offuzzzified, i.e membership degree as furzy theory According to this the all related 
items including items A B and C con be operated by matter-element and created the fuzzy inference rules to derive a more objective association rule base Additionalb the weighted average method will be used for counting the inference value if there were same business transaction in accordance with the transaction list Thus the quantiry of item A or B can be inferred ifthe large item set AB can be generated fmm association rules From 
above the predictions or suggestion works like as products promotion or add-on services, can be decided by the manager Final we show experimentally that the proposal model can be predicted the customer k trends or extracted implicit information Keywords Association rules Extenics apriori algorithm Product ID Quantity A 3 B 1 D 5 1 Introduction I The rapidly growing volume and complexity of modem databases makes the need for technologies to describe and 
summaries the information they contain increasingly important The general term to describe this process is data mining Two key issues with association rule mining are the high cost of generating association rule and the large number of rules that are normally generated[\222l Much work has been done to address the first issue Methods for reducing the number of rules generated 222 0-7803-7952-7/03/$17.00 0 2003 IEEE A I 1 depend on the application because a 
rule may be useful in one application but not another In this article we are concemed with the quantity of association rules and substitute the quantity with membership value of fuzzy theory to lessen individual\222s subjective threshold setting for discovering patient customer or private\222s service Association rule mining was first studied in I and can be used for prediction if the high cost of finding and applying the rule set is not a concem. Most research work has been on how to mine frequent 
itemsets efficiently Apriori  is a widely accepted approach, and there have been many enhancements to it 3 41 In addition other approaches have been proposed 5 61 mainly by using more memory to save time An association query discovers dependencies among values of an attribute grouped by some other attributes to help the decision-maker to realize the customers\222 purchasing trends in a given relation or market-basket-data[8 Consider example in transaction Table 1 
which consist of transaction numher product ID and quantity respectively This problem can be converted into Boolean association relation whose tuples include only ones and zeros 6 as Table 2 200 I D 1 n I I 400 B 3 E I 3 F 7 I L I A 1  I Ll I I D 4 1 300 I E I 2 3251 


Association rules are generated of the general form by If Then  format The major statistics computed for the association rules are Supporf and Confidence which are expressed in percentage normally Table 2 Boolean association relation In our daily life some kinds of problems cannot be directly solved by the given conditions For example it is impossible to weigh an elephant by a steelyard However the problems may become solvable or easier to be solved through some sorts of transformation The Laplace transformation provides such a good example used in engineering field Many commonly used techniques are in concept well-known to users Define the name of a matter by N one of the characteristics of the matter by CR, and the value about CR by V In extension theory we use an ordered temary R=\(N CR V as the fundamental element to describe a matter and call it a matter-element 5 For example R=\(Andy Height 170cm and R=\(Andy Weight 60kg can be used to describe that Andy\222s height and weight are 170cm and 60kg respectively Thus different characteristics of the same matter indicate different values Based on this properly we can design different relational functions to describe the values corresponding to the characteristics Therefore to solve the incompatible or contradictory problems Cai 5 created the formal concept of extension set which extends the logic value from 0,1 to o,+m Because the quality is no considered in each extracted association rule we substitute the quality with the membership value of Fuzzy theory and tune those rules for fitting each condition for exploring the mining information 2 The Extenics-fuzzy mining model Let I=\(1,2  m be a set of item and TcI be a transaction containing a set of items An itemset is defmed to he a set of items and a k-itemset is an itemset containing k items A database D is a collection of transactions Suppose that every transaction is given a unique identifier and we name it by TID The support of an itemset e.g X is the ratio of the number of transactions containing the items to the number of all transactions in a database denoted by sup\(X Given two itemsets X and Y where X n Y  4 an association rule is defined to be XJ Y where sup\(Xu Y\sup\(X U Y X are not less than user specified thresholds respectively sup\(X U Y X is called the confidence of the rule denoted by confix3 U The two thresholds are called the minimum suppoi and the minimum confrdnce respectively Given a basket relation grouped by transactions as table 1 and utilize the Apriori algorithm to generate the association rules as table 3 Selected a matched rule with the highest confidence from the extracted association rule and put the consequence of the rule into fuzzy set We say that a rule matches a transaction if its antecedence is a subset of the transaction Because there is no concem quantity and price fields in the extracted association rule we map the quantity or price with the membership of fuzzy theory and substituted the value field of matter-element defined in Extnics with corresponding membership value Those matter-element defined is depicted as Eq.\(l to Eq.\(3 1 RA item-A,quantity,pL\(A 2 R  item  B quantity pL B 3 R item price membership degree or R  item quantify, membership degree Supposed there are some relation between item-A and item-B the model can be shown as Eq.\(4 4 RA  item  AB quantify pL A x pL B After mined the database the relation could be presented with fuzzy rule as Eq.\(S That could be translated as the customer will purchase the item-C after buy item-A and item-B Ifitem-A is FA and item-B is FBi then itemC is FC 5 The FA  FEi and FC are fuzzy sets of item-A  item-B and item-C respectively The trapezoid\222s fuzzy sets are shown in Fig 1  Figure 1 The fuzzy set of item The extension theory 5 investigates how to formalize the concepts to solve the incompatible or contradictory problem Denoting the extended relational function by k\(x to relate an element with a set we can divide the range of the set into three parts One region has a relational degree greater than zero, another has a degree between zero and 1 and the rest has degree less than 1 If 3252 


1 k\(x this means that the element x still has a chance to be included in the normal fuzzy set if the set was adjusted This motivates us to design a fuzzy model that also considers the regions having the relational degrees between 1 and zero Define the extended relational function by k\(x to represent the degree of an element belonging to a set The range of the extension set is  m,m which differs from the fuzzy set in  0,1  This means that an element belongs to any extension set with different degree. The higher the degree the closer the element belongs to the set A degree between zero and one i.e 0 5 k\(x 5 1 corresponds to the normal fuzzy set k\(x 5 1 implies that the element x has no chance to belong to the set When 1  k x  0  this means that the element x still bas a chance to become an element of the set if the set was adjusted. This motivates us to design a fuuy model which considers the regions having the relational degrees between 1 and zero Thus, the extenics-based fuzzy model not only adjusts the classical sets but also simultaneously refines the extended sets during the refining process Apparently the fuzzy set theory only considers the elements inside the set and gives different degrees of membership function to the elements Those who are not inside the set are not discussed in the fuzzy set However, a training datum which belongs to a specific set may not belong to the neighboring sets at this moment but may fall into those neighboring fuzzy sets once the sets were adjusted This suggests us to consider the effect of the neighboring fupy sets to a datum during the fuvy inference. This is why the extenics-based fuzzy model is proposed in this paper We try to solve this problem by the extended transformation method 13  Assuming the isosceles membership functions with 50 overlap with their neighbors are used Based on the extension theory and from Fig 2 a datum x located at the ith and i+l membership functions will activate the corresponding fuzzy rules to fire Thus only the parameters related to the fired rules will be adjusted in conventional fuzzy model Here we define the matter element for the classical region as follows IO x CRI Ci 4 Ci  bi   6 Rc c~z,<Ci+1-4+i~Ci+i+bi+i  7 x,CR3 Ci-l bi-,,Ci_ bi_ rZi  where R and Re are the normal or classical and extended matter elements respectively c is the center of the ith function c i+2-~i+z-~i+z,Ci+z-bii2  Re Figure 2 The extended relational functions for the single-input system Suppose that X and X are the classical and neighborhood domains of x respectively Based on the concept of left-right-sided distance 14 we can define the extended correlation function as follows 14 From above we can derive the following relational functions for each region depicted ki x  9 ci  b  x bi In the above equations c is the center of the itb function The inferred output is obtained as follows j=i-l j=i-I Note that the denominator in Eq.\(13 differs from the conventional method in that the absolute value is considered Since the relational degree is negative in the extended region taking the absolute value can prevent the denominator from becoming zero If the error function is defined as follows 14 1 2 E  Yc Yd we can use the gradient descent to adjust the related papramters For the data located in the classical fuzzy set CR I region, the relational degrees can be defined as follows 3253 


c  b..-x be upper coner if we give 2 and 5 pieces as Item-I and Item-2 input respectively Which is meaning there will be a discount price for promotion while Item-3\222s quantity more than 3.49 if someone buys Item-I and Item-2 together Naturally different membership function should have 15 ke\(xj 221I 221IJ degree of CR region can be written as follows X-cillj 4+1j bi+lj kj+lj\(Xj  16 different inference output A datum fallen into the left extended set CR region, will have a relational degree as follows 4 Conclusion 17 ci-lj  bj-lj  xj 3-1j ki_ j\(xj  Similarly a datum in the right extended set CR region will result in a relational degree as follows The new value for the to-be-adjusted pheter in the next steD is then defined as follows 6E Ip p\(t+l t In the above equation k is the leaming rate In this thesis after mined the transaction database we transformed the price or quantity fields which almost ignored in the mining association rules process to the matter-element of Extenics and utilized Fuuy inference to calculate the threshold of association rules to realize the customers\222 purchase trend for commercial products promotion or add-on sales An example is given and the inference output by Fuuy theory excluded the human being\222s subjective factor Simulation results show that given niinimum support minimum confidence and more than the threshold 3.49 an implicit commercial chance could he found Thus the Extenics-Fwzy correlation rule can be extracted after analyze the transaction database such that a Finally a personalized service can be realized while we R Agrwal T Imieliski and A Swami 223Mining tune the inference engine 3 Simulation results associations between sets of items in massive database.\224 In Pmc Of the ACM SIGMOD In17 fuq model can be created Reference I Confemce on Management ofData 1993 In this section the quantity or price field in extracted R A and R Snkant 223F l~~fih for association rule will be transferred with value fields of mining association rules in large database,\224 In Pmc Extenics and consider the correlation between each item by of Twentieth International Conference on Very Large membership degree of Fuzzy theory First selected the Databases pp.487-499, Santiago, Chile, 1994 file-name of transaction database as Fig 4 and listed those 31 M Holsbeimer M K H il and items as Fig 5 The minimum support is given 2 and the Toivonen,\223A perspective on databases and data minimum confidence is given 40 respectively The mining,\224 In 1st Intl ConJ Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Aug 1995 association rules can be extracted while click the 223Start\224 icon first and 3 click 221\221next\222\222 icon The large item set J H J pei, and y yin i~i frequent patterns including ll,12,15 and ll,I2,13 are shown in Fig 5 and without candidate generation,\224 In Pmc 2000 represent those items 11,12,T3,T5 have some ACM-SIGMOD Int Con On Management of Data correlations each other SIGMOD\222OO pp.1-12 May 2000 Then we put those item W,T2,T51  into FW\222s 151 w Cai 223The extension set and noncompatible inference engine. As shown in Fig 6 the range field of problem,\224 J of Scientific Exploration vol 1 quantity is given IO the Gauss membership hction type is pp.81-93, 1983 selected and two input variable item-I and item-2 is given bi quanative Certainly another type of membership function can be association rules in large relational tables,\224 in selected like as Triangle, Trapezoid etc There are totally 9 SIGMOD\22298 Montreal, Canada pp.l-12,1996 Fuzzy rules and depicted in Fig 7 J Li H Shen and R Topor 223Mining the smallest The inference type is Mamdani method and the process association rule set for predictions\224 In Pmc of IEEE can be illustrated as Fig 7 The inference output can be ICDM\222OI pp.361-368, San Jose, CA. 2001 showed up immediately if we drag the Item-l-quantity\222s 1 s J S Deogun V V Raghavan and H Sever Item-2-quantity\222s vertical line by horizontal direction From 223Association Mining and formal Concept Analysis\224 Fig 8 the inference output is 3.49 which locate in right 2 q 6 R,Srikant and R 7 3254 


In 6\224 Pmc Data Mining and Granular Con7puting Vol 11 pp.335-338 1998 J Han and M Kamber Data mining concepts and techniques Morgan Kaufman Publishers San Francisco, CA 2001 T P Hong C.S Kuo and S C Chi 223A fuzzy data mining algorithm for quantitative values,\224 Id International Conference on Knowledge-Based Intelligent Information Engineering Systems pp.480-483 1999 Y.-P Hunag H.-J Chen and H.-C Chu, \223Identifying a fuzzy model by using the bipartite membership function,\224Fuzzy Sets and Systems 1999 to appear Y.-P Huang and H.-J Chen 223The extension-based fuzzy modeling method and its applications,\224 in Pmc IEEE Canadian Con on Electrical and Computer Engineering Edmonton Alberta, Canada, pp.977-982, May 1999 Y.-P Huang and H.-J Chen, \223Using extension theory to design a fast data processing model,\224 in Pmc IEEE-SMC Con Nashville TN pp.3410-3415 October 2000 Y.-P Huang H.-J Chen, and H.-C Chu 223Identifying a fuzzy model by using the bipartite membership functions,\223 Fuzzy Sets and Systems vol 118 no 2 E Guely and P Siarry 223Gradient descent method for optimizing various fuzzy rule bases,\224 Pmc FUZZ-IEEE pp.1241-1246 1993 Y.-P Huang and C.-C Huang 223The integration and application of fuzzy and grey modeling methods,\224 Fuzzy Sets and Systems vol 78, pp.107-119 1996 H Nomura I Hayashi and N Wakami 223A learning method of fuzzy inference rules by descent method,\224 hoc FUZZ-IEEE pp.203-210 1992 pp.199-214,2001 Figure 4 Transaction database listing Figure 5 Mining large item set Figure 6 The Gauss membership function Figure 3 Access database 3255 


Figure 7 Nine fuzzy rules Figure 8 Nine Fuuy rules by graphic illustration 3256 


Intelligence CAD  In hoc .  of 2nd Intemational Conf on Computer-Aided Industrial Design and Conceptual Design, Bangkok, Thailand, pp. 236-239, Nov. 26-28 1999 6] Hu xuegang, The Research of Models on Knowledge Discovery in Databases VH.D Dissertation] Hefei university of Technology, Hefei 2000,Anhui. P. R China. \(in Chinese 7] J. Deogun, Vijay V. Raghavan, Heayn Sever  Association Mining and Formal Concept Analysis   In: Anita,W,San,C Eds. Proc. of the RSDMGRC  98 Duke: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1998 G. Snelting  Reengineer of Configuration Based on Mathematical Concept Analysis  ACM Transactions on SoftwareEngineering and methodology, S\(2 146-189, 1996 9] Jiawei,Han,Micheline,Kamber, Data Mining xoucepts and techniques,Morgan Kaufman Publishers,San Francisco,pp.227-236, 2001 IO] De-Xing Wang, Xue-gang Hu, Hao Wang  The Research on the Model of Mining Association Rule by Interest-Weighted on Concept Lattice  Journal of Nanjing University \(Natural Sciences Computer Issue 11, pp. 89-95. Nov. 2002 111 De-Xing Wang, Xue-gang Hu, Hao Wang  The Research on Model of Mining Association Rules Based on Quantitative Extended Concept Lattice   IEEE Pro. of ICMLC2002 Conference, Beijing pp.134 -138, Nov. 2002 8 1624 pre></body></html 


and fuzzy minimum support sets along with average weight intervals. For this purpose, we have used three linguistic intervals for which random linguistic weights have been generated, namely very-Unimportant, Ordinary Ordinary, Very-Important] and very-Unimportant, Very Important], denoted W-0,O-VI and W-VI, respectively Figure 6 gives the number of rules with respect to the minimum support threshold at level 1. In this experiment the minimum supports at the other levels are adjusted to middle-below whose set is different for both level 2 and level 3 as shown in Figure 7. In a similar way, Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the correlation between minimum support in linguistic terms for two different levels and the number of rules produced. From the two figures, it can be easily seen that the number of rules mined decreases along with the increase in linguistic minimum support thresholds. Also more rules are generated for the linguistic weights of the higher fuzzy set. For example, the curve having [0-VI linguistic weights has generated more rules than the others especially [W-01 ones K C y b W  I O W  mdme- mdmr- t"@ -hi Minimum Suppans at Level I trl0.S .*a Fig. 6. Number of tules for various linguistic minimum suppart values M l r u n ~ P W . N h L e 3 1 \( X Fig. 7. Fuzzy Sets of minimum support tisod for different levek 0 1wo - 2 3000 b *cm E i 1000 W y l O W  IOW md*- mac- hlgh UnjY MinimumSupponsat Level 2 t r l O r x  *Ma Fig. 8. Number of mles far various linguistic minimum support values lam 6Mo 5000 4000 3 a a I 2000 1000 0 velylow IOW middle- middle- high vely below above high Minimum Suppofs SI Level 3 Fig. 9. Number of wi.5 for various linguistic minimum suppolr values In the second set of the experiments, the runtimes of the first experiments are compared. The achieved results are reported in Figures 10, 11, and 12, which do meet our expectations, i.e., the runtime decreases as the minimum support thresholds increase 229 V l o r  ,ow d d m C b . b V d d , n ~ ~  b.$h V Minimum Suppans at Love1 1 Fig. I O .  Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level I  a i l o w  I O U  iddie  iddie- ugh rnyw ow above Minimum Suppons at Level 2 Fig. 11. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum mpportr at level 2 SenI 4 \\  I  E a  2 Y O y l O U  IOW  Mle- rmddlr- hgh  nyhgh Minimum Suppolts 81 Love1 3 below .bow Fig. 12. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level 3 vrrylov IOW riddle. Mddlr high v q h i g h r l o w  nbmr Minimum Confidence Fig. 13. Number ofrules for various linguistic minimum confidence In the last experiment, the minimum support has been fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for 


fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for three fuzzy regions, the effect of using linguistic terms to express confidence in similar way to the membership functions of minimum support used for level 1 shown in Figure 4, on the number of generated association rules. The results plotted in Figure 13 reveal two important features One of them is that the number of rules decreases, for all cases, as the linguistic confidence threshold increases. The VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we proposed a mining approach for extracting interesting multi-cross-level fuzzy weighted rules in a given taxonomy. A top-down progressive deepening technique has been used while mining multi-cross-levels weighted association rules. Also, three important criteria minimum support, minimum confidence and item importance used in determining the interestingness of the rules have been represented by fuzzy sets. So, we obtained more meaningfid rules that are more understandable for human beings. As apart from the studies described in the literature, we defined the concept of weighting internal nodes in a given taxonomy. The experiments conducted on a synthetic database showed that the proposed approach produces consistent and encouraging meaningful results Currently, we are investigating the possibility of combining the approach proposed in this paper with the concept of adjacency lattice for online mining REFERENCES I ]  R Agrawal, T. Imielinski and A. Swami  Mining association NI~S between sets ofitems in large databases  Proe. ofACM SIGMOD. pp 207-216, 1993 121 R. Srikant and R Agrawal  Mining quanlitative association NI~S in large relationaltables  Proc. ofACMSlCMOD, pp. 1-12, 1996 3] RJ. Miller and Y. Yang  Association Rules over Inten,al Data  Proc ofACMSIGMOD, pp. 452.461, 1997 4] B. Lent, A. Swami and J. Widom  Clustering Association Rules   Proc. oflEEEICDE, pp. 220-231, 1997 5] L.A. Zadeh  Fuzzy Sets  In/ormntion and Connol, vol. 8, pp. 338 353, 1965 6] W. Zhang  Mining Fuzzy Quantitative Association Rules  Proc. of IEEE ICTAI, pp. 99-102, 1999 7] K.C.C. Chan and W.H. A    Mining Fuzzy Association Rules: Proc o f . 4 C M C / M ,  pp.209-215, 1997 SI K. Himta and W. Pedrjcz  Linguistic Data Mining and Fuzzy Modelling  Proc. ofEEE-FUZZ, pp. 1448-1496, 1996 9] T.P. Hong, C.S. Kuo and S.C. Chi  Mining Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Inrelligenr Dolo Analysis. vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 363 376, 1999 I O ]  T. P. Hong, M. J. Chiang and S .  L. Wang  Mining from Quantitative Data with Linguistic Minimum Supports and Confidences  Proc. of IEEE-FUZZ, pp. 494-499. 2002 Ill H. Ishibuchi, T. Nakashim and T. Yammato  Fuzzy Association Rules for Handling Continuous Attributes  Proc. of IEEE Inle,aarionolSyn~posium on Indumiol Elecnonics. pp.l18-121,2001 I Z ]  M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, F. Polat and A. Arslan  Eflicient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules  Proc. qfDEX1, 2002 1131 C.M. Kuok, A.W. Fu and M.H. Wong  Milung fuzzy association rulesin&amp;tabases  SIGMOD Record, Vo1.17,No.l, pp.41-46. 1998 1141 W. Pedrjcz  Fuzzy Sets Technology in Knowledge Discovery   Furzy Sen ondSystems. pp. 279-290, 1998 1151 R.R. Yager  Fuzzy Summaries in Database Mining  Proc. of llre International Confireme 011 Artificial InteIligence/or Application, pp 265-269, 1995 1161 R Snkant and R. Agrawal  Mining generalized association ~ l d   Proc. of VLDE, pp. 407-419, Zurich. Sept. 1995 I71 1. Ha  andY. Fu  Mining Multiple-Level Association Rules in Large Databases  IEEE TKDE. vol. 1 I ,  pp. 798-805, Oct. 1999 IS] T.P. Hang. K.Y. Lin and B.C. Chien  Mining Fuzzy Multiple-Level Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Applied Inrelligence, vol 18, pp. 79-90,2003 


18, pp. 79-90,2003 1191 T.P. Hong, K.Y. Lin and S.L. Wang  Fuzzy data mining for interesting generalized association tules  Fuze Sets and Syslrms, vol 1 3 8 . ~ ~ . 2 . o o . 2 5 5 - 2 6 9 . ~ e n t .  2003. .~ ,.. 1 .  other is that the number of  rules tends to decrease along 1201 S. Yue, el -Mining f U q  NleS items   with the increase in the numbers of fuzzy regions. This is reasonable because a large number of regions will make quantities of an item in different transactions easily scattered in different regions prOe. o j m E s M c , p p .  1906-1911,2000 1211 C.H. Cai, et al  Mining Associalion Rules with Weighted Items   1221 A. Gyenerei  Mining Weighted Association Rules for Fuzzy Quantitative Items  TUCS Technical Report No: 346, May 2000 1231 R Agrawal and R Srikant  Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules  Proe of VLDB, pp. 487499, Sept. 1994 OfrDEAs, PP.68-77. 1998 230 pre></body></html 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


