Mining Association Rules with Linguistic Terms    Jianjiang Lu 1,2,3 Baowen Xu 1,3 Lei Xu 1,3 Dazhou Kang 1,3 Huowang Chen 4 Hongji Yang 5 1 Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210096, China 2 PLA University of Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210007, China 3 Jiangsu Institute of Software Quality, Nanjing, 210096, China 4 School of Computer Science, National University of Defense Technology, Changsha,410073, China 
5 School of Computing, De Montfort University, Leicester, LE1 9BH, England  This work was supported in part by the National Natural  60073012\ent al Research 973 Program of China \(2002CB312000 Research Foundation for the Doctoral Program of Higher Education of China, Natura l Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province, China \(BK2001004 Laboratory of Softwar e Engineering in Wuhan University and Opening Foundation of Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Computer Information Processing Technology in Soochow University Correspondence to:  Baowen Xu, Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China.. E-mail bwxu@seu.edu.cn 
Abstract Some problems of mining associ ation rules with linguistic terms are di scussed. First, an incremental updating algorithm of associati on rules with linguistic terms is presented. The collection of frequent linguistic attribute set s and its negative border along with their support count are maintained, which makes scan the entire database once at most in the process of updating association rules The experiment shows that the updating algorithm can not only update association rules effecti vely but also avoid the repeated cost. Secondly, the parallel algorithm for mining association rules w ith linguistic terms is presented. The Boolean parallel mining algorithm is improved to discover frequent lingui stic attribute sets 
and the association rules with at least confidence are generated on all processors. This parallel mining algorithm has fine scaleup, sizeup and speedup Keywords data mining; association rules; linguistic terms; parallel; incremental updating algorithm 1. Introduction The mining of association rules is one of the most important issues in the fiel d of data mining. The problem of mining Boolean association rul   Many known algorithms, such as Apriori 2 and DHP 3  have been presented The problem of mining quantitative association rules is introduced in  finds association rules by partitioning the attribute domain, and 
then transforming the problem into binary one. Although this algorithm can solve problems introduced by quantitative attributes, it introduces some other problems First, the equi-depth partition cannot embody the actual distribution of the data. On the one hand, it may not work very well on highly skewed data and tends to split adjacent values with high support into separate intervals though their behavior would typi cally be similar. On the other hand, it is not easy to distinguish the degree of membership. Secondly, it causes the sharp partition boundary problem uses fuzzy set to soften partition boundary, and presents the concept of fuzzy  uses fuzzy cluster algorithm  to partition the domain of quan titative attribute into several linguistic terms, then the problem of mining association 
rules with linguistic term s is introduced by combining linguistic term im proves the work in [6 further and presents the algorithm that can fit for the large  priori mining algorithm to find fuzzy similar association  proposes a mining approach for extracti ng linguistic weighted association rules from discovers fuzzy association rul es over the extended database with filled predictive values In this paper some problems of mining association rules with linguistic terms are discussed. First, an incremental updating algorithm of association rules with linguistic terms is presented, this updating algorithm can not only 
update association rules effectiv ely but also avoid the repeated cost. Secondly, the parallel algorithm for mining association rules with linguistic terms is presented, this parallel mining algorithm has fine scaleup, sizeup and speedup 2. Mining association rules with linguistic terms Let      2 1 n t t t T  be a relational database j t represents the j th record. Let      2 1 
m i i i I  be the attribute set   k j i t represents the value of the j th record in attribute k i For mining association rules with linguistic terms, values of the record in attribute Proceedings of the 15th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAIê03 1082-3409/03 $17.00 © 2003 IEEE 


are first partitioned into several linguistic terms by fuzzy c means \(FCM  Then, a new database is constructed by the original database T In the new database, attributes are linguistic terms, so attributes are called as linguistic attributes. Values of the record in attributes are obtained as follows. For example, let 1 k i be a linguistic term of attribute k i  1 k i is an attribute in the new database. Value of the j th record in attribute 1 k i is    1 k j k i t i     1 k j k i t i is a membership degree Let I still be the linguistic attribute set, let   k j y t still represent the value of the j th record in linguistic attribute k y Let I y y y X p        2 1  I y y y Y q p p p           2 1  Y X    An association rules with linguistic terms is an implication of the form Y X The support of X is defined as  n y t X Sup n j p m m j     1 1     where    n j p m m j y t 1 1   is called as the support count of X Linguistic attribute sets with at least a minimum support are called frequent linguistic attribute sets. The support of Y X is defined as n y t Sup n j q p m m j      1 1   the confidence of Y X is defined as   X Sup Sup Conf  Because   k j y t  know that all subsets of a frequent linguistic attribute set must also be frequent, so we can easily modify Apriori algorithm to mine association rules with linguistic terms   3. An incremental update algorithm for association rules with linguistic terms In practice, the database is updated frequently rather than static. After being in serted, deleted and updated, new association rules will present and some others will becom introduces the problem of maintaining Boolean associa tion rules and gives the FUP algorithm that can maintain association rules when new transactions add to a o re general algorithm FUP2, which can maintain Boolean association rules when some records are inserted, deleted  uses negative borders to m a intain rules. In this section, an incremental update algorithm for association rules with linguistic terms is presented 3.1 An incremental update algorithm In order to find association rules with linguistic terms in the updated database, a naive way is directly to run mining algorithm again. Since there exist much unnecessary repeated computing cost, this method is inefficient. Because association rules with linguistic terms can be directly generated from frequent linguistic attribute set s, the rule maintenance problem becomes the problem of maintaining frequent linguistic attribute sets. Next, we only consi der the insert condition; the deletion condition is similar to the case When new records add to the database, some frequent linguistic attribute sets can become infrequent. Similarly some infrequent linguistic attribute sets can become frequent. In order to solve the update problem efficiently the membership degree of new records in linguistic terms should be known first. One approach is using FCM algorithm to cluster again. But when the volume of data is very huge, this approach will cost much time. Because the update problem usually assumes that only few new records add to the database, we can consider that the cluster centers i v will not change approximately. So we can compute the membership value directly by the equation c i d d u c k kj ij ij   2  1      1 1 2      Definition 1 The negative border   FL NBd of a collection of linguistic attribute sets FL is defined as follows. Given a collection   F P FL  of linguistic attribute sets, closed with resp ect to the set inclusion relation, in which F is the collection of all linguistic attributes and   F P denotes the subset space of F The negative border   FL NBd of FL consists of the minimal linguistic attribute sets F X  not in FL  In the rest of this section DB denotes the original database db denotes the records that newly add and DB denotes the updated database. Also DB FL  db FL and  DB FL denotes the collection of frequent linguistic attribute sets and   DB FL NBd    db FL NBd and    DB FL NBd denotes the negative border of the original database, incremental data base and the updated database respectively. Next, we maintain the collection of frequent linguistic attribute sets and its negative border along with their support count in the database On one hand we check if there exist some old frequent linguistic attribute sets to become infrequent. Let DB FL f  since we know the support count for f in DB and db the support count for f in db DB  can be easily obtained. If f does not have minimum support in db DB  then it is removed from DB FL  On the other hand some new linguistic attribute sets may become frequent in the updated database. There exist two conditions 1\attribute set in   DB FL NBd gets the minimum support, no new linguistic attribute set will add to  DB FL  Proceedings of the 15th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAIê03 1082-3409/03 $17.00 © 2003 IEEE 


2   DB FL NBd gets the minimum support, move it to  DB FL and recompute the negative border. If     DB DB DB DB FL NBd FL FL NBd FL      we have to find the negative border closure of  DB FL and scan the whole database DB updated frequent linguistic attribute set and its negative border Algorithm 1. An incremental update algorithm for frequent linguistic attribute sets Input the original collection of frequent linguistic attribute sets and its negative border along with their support count; cluster centers of each quantitative attribute db minimum support Output updated frequent linguistic attribute sets and its negative border Methods  1\pute membership values of each record in db according to the original fuzzy cluster centers, and then compute the frequent linguistic attribute sets in db  2\frequent linguistic attribute sets and its negative border in db  3\Compute the total support count of the original frequent linguistic attribute sets and its negative border in DB  db Check if they have minimum support, add them to updated frequent linguistic attribute sets 4 db if it is presented in original negative border, check its total support. If it has minimum support, add it to updated frequent linguistic attribute sets 5\pare  DB FL with DB FL if not equal, recompute the updated negative border, else terminates the algorithm 6     DB DB DB DB FL NBd FL FL NBd FL      recompute the closure of updated negative border, and scan the whole database once to obtain the final updated frequent linguistic attribute set and its negative border 3.2. Experimental analysis Experimental database Abal one is taken from UCI Machine Learning Repository, which has 4177 instances The quantitative attributes including length, diameter height, whole weight, shucked wei ght, viscera weight, shell weight and rings are respectively denoted as I1ÉI8. To simplify, we mine the association rules with consequent I8 The condition of other consequents can be discussed in the same way. Quantitative attributes are partitioned into three linguistic terms: large, middle and small, which are denoted as integer 1, 2 and 3. Each element in rules is represented by attribute: linguistic term such as <I1: 1>. We select 4000 records to construct the original database, 177 records construct the incremental database db We do the experiment at PII 233MHZ with 32M RAM. Set minimum support to be 0.22 and minimum confidence to be 0.5, total 11 association rules listed in table 1 are obtained using incremental update method and mining the whole database respectively. These results are equal. The former 10 rules are presented in the original database and the last rule is an added rule. These results show that incremental update method can discovery the updated association rules. The time for mining in the whole database is 389 seconds \(i ncluding the cost of the FCM algorithm\, while the incremental update method only use 2 seconds. Let the minimum confidence be 0.5, table 2 shows the times of scanning the whole database at the different minimum support. These results show that incremental update method can mine the updated association rules with linguistic terms. In addition, it can avoid the repeated cost introduced by doing mi ning task directly in the whole database Table 1.  Association rules with linguistic terms Incremental update mining Mining in the whole database I1:1> => <I8:2 I1:1> => <I8:2 I2:1> => <I8:2 I2:1> => <I8:2 I3:2> => <I8:2 I3:2> => <I8:2 I4:2 >=> <I8:2 I4:2 >=> <I8:2 I4:3> => <I8:3 I4:3> => <I8:3 I5:3> => <I8:3 I5:3> => <I8:3 I6:2> => <I8:2 I6:2> => <I8:2 I6:3> => <I8:3 I6:3> => <I8:3 I7:2> => <I8:2 I7:2> => <I8:2 I7:3> => <I8:3 I7:3> => <I8:3 I1:1> and <I2:1> => <I8:2 I1:1> and <I2:1> => <I8:2 Table 2.  The times of scanning the whole database MinSup Incremental update mining Mining in the whole database 0.20 1 4 0.10 1 6 0.07 0 8 0.05 0 8 0.03 1 8 0.01 0 8 4. Parallel mining association rules with linguistic terms In order to mine association rules with linguistic terms on the distributed linked PC workstation, we first use parallel fuzzy c means \(PFCM  to partition the quantitative attributes. Then, we adopt the similar idea of the Count Dist ribution algorithm  to design the parallel algorithm 4.1. Parallel mining algorithm The key step for generating frequent linguistic attribute sets is obtaining the whole support count by exchanging the local support count of the candidate linguistic attribute sets. First, each process obtains local support count of the candidate linguistic attribute sets from hash tree asynchronously and put into the array LcntArr Secondly, each process aggregates to compute components of the array by function MPI_Reduce_Scatter \(\ to each process, which only receives the whole support count Proceedings of the 15th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAIê03 1082-3409/03 $17.00 © 2003 IEEE 


with respect to its partition. Third, each process gathers the whole support count of th e candidate linguistic attribute sets to th e array GcntArr by function MPI_AllGatherv \(\ based on the message passing interface \(MPI\ 2 Algorithm 2. The parallel mining algorithm Input Subset of data i D    2  1  s i   minsup  minconf  Output Association rules with linguistic terms \(ARLTs Parameter: nproc \(the number of process\yid \(process label\ysize \(data size of the subset\pPMat \(partial partial association rules with linguistic terms Methods  MPI_Init \(&argc,&argv MPI_Comm_size \(MPI_COMM_WORLD, &nproc MPI_Comm_rank \(MPI_COMM_WORLD, &myid Data_input D i  MPI_Barrier \(MPI_COMM_WORLD If \(myid==0 startwtime=MPI_Wtime for \(cl=0; cl<COLUMN; cl Clustering by PFCM  PFCM D i mysize, cl, pPMa   Construct a new database Transform \(pPMat istree=ist_create \(m, minsup, minconf Discover frequent linguistic attribute sets do for \(i=0;i<mysize;i ist_count \(istree, pPMat, mysize, i extract_count \(istree, LCntArr MPI_Reduce_scatter \(LCntArr, PartGCntArr, PartSize MPI_SUM, MPI_COMM_WORLD MPI_Allgatherv \(PartGCntArr, PartSize[my  GCntArr PartSize, disp, MPI_COMM_WORLD Writeback_count \(GCntArr, istree l=ist_addlvl \(istree while \(l==0 Generating association rules with linguistic terms Gen_rule \(istree, pARLTs If \(myid==0 MPI_Gather \(pARLTs ARLTs, MPI_COMM_WORLD endwtime = MPI_Wtime printf \("wall clock time = %f\\n",endwtime-startwtime  MPI_Finalize If \(myid==0 Return ARLTs   4.2. Experimental analysis We implemented our parallel algorithm for mining association rules with linguis tic terms on the distributed linked PC/workstation. This workstation consists of six computers with 128M RAM, which are interconnected via a 10M/100M hub. We use the parallel message passing software MPICH1.2.4 The experiment is implement ed on an abalone dataset from UCI machine learning. We first copy abalone dataset 32 times, and obtain a 5.72MB dataset with 133,664 records, which is regarded as the initial dataset To see how well our parallel algorithm handles large dataset when more computers are available, we perform scaleup experiments where the dataset is copied from the initial dataset in direct proportion to the number of the computers in the workstation. The number of maximal computers is set to 6.  In the experiment, attributes are partitioned into three fuzzy sets by PFCM algorithm. Let minimum fuzzy support be 0.01, let minimum fuzzy confidence be 0.1. The performance results of scaleup are shown in figure 1. In addition to the absolute response times as the number of computers is increased, figure 2 also plots scaleup, which is the response time normalized with respect to the response time for a single computer.   pfarm curve is our parallel algorithm, another curve is  ideal condition. In our parallel algorithm, we can also obtain fine performance of sizeup and speedup. Because this paper is limited to 5 pages, we donot show more results 5. Conclusions Some problems of mining association rules with linguistic terms are discussed. First, an incremental updating algorithm of association rules with linguistic terms is presented. The coll ection of frequent linguistic attribute sets and its negative border along with their support count are maintained, which makes scan the entire database once at most in the process of updating association rules. Secondly, the parallel algorithm for mining association rules with linguistic terms is presented. The Boolean parallel mining algorithm is improved to discover frequent linguis tic attribute sets and the association rules with at least confidence are generated on all processors. In our parallel algorithm, the real memory of every computer must save all candidates fuzzy attribute sets. When the number of quantitative attributes is increasing, our parallel algorithm may be ineffective. How to mine the fuzzy association rules in the database with lots of quan titative attributes is a further work Proceedings of the 15th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAIê03 1082-3409/03 $17.00 © 2003 IEEE 


 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 02468 The number of processes Response timme sec 0 0 2 0 4 0 6 0 8 1 1 2 1 4 1 6 1 8 2 02468 The number of processes Scaleup pf ar m i deal References   R. Agrawal, T. Imieliski, and A. Swami, çMining association rules between sets of items in large databases Proc. of ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data Washington, DC, 1993 pp.207-216   R. Agrawal, R. Srikant, çFast algorithms for mining association rules Proc. of the 1994 International Conference on Very Large Databases Santiago Chile, 1994, pp.487-499   J.S. Park, M.S. Chen, and P.S. Yu, çAn effective hash-based algorithm for mining association rules Proc. of the 1995 ACM-SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data San Jose, CA 1995, pp.175-186   R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, çMining quantitative association rules in large relational tables Proc. of the ACM -SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data Montreal, Canada, 1996, pp.1-12   M.K. Chan, F. Ada, and H.W. Man, çMining fuzzy association rules in database SIGMOD Record  1998,27\(1\ 41-46   J. J. Lu, Z. L. Song, and Z. P. Qian, çMining linguistic valued association rules Journal of Software 2001,12\(4 in Chinese   X. F. Zou, J. J. Lu, Z. L. Song, çMining linguistic valued association rules Journal of System Simulation 2002,14\(9 in Chinese   S. L. Wang, C. Y. Kuo, T. P. Hong, çMining fuzzy similar association rules from quantitative data Proc. of NAFIPS 2002, pp. 190-194   T. P. Hong, M. J. Chiang, S. L. Wang, çMining from quantitative data with linguistic minimum supports and confidences Proc. of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 2002 pp. 494 Ö499   D. Arotaritei, çMining fuzzy association rules in incomplete databasesé, Fuzzy Systems, 2002 FUZZ-IEEE'02 Proc. of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 2002 pp. 267 Ö271   R.J. Hathaway, J.W. Davenport, and J.C. Bezdek Relational dual of the c means algorithms Pattern Recognition 1989,22\(2   D. W. Cheung, J.W. Han, V. T. Ng, et al Maintenance of discovered association rules in large databases: An increm ental update technique Proc. of the Twelfth International Conference on Data Engineering Louisiana, 1996. 106-114   D. W. Cheung, S. D. Lee, B. Kao, çA general incremental technique for maintaining discovered association rules Proc. of the Fifth International Conference on Database Systems for Advanced Applications Melbourne, Australia, 1997. 185-194   S. Thomas, S. Bodagala, K. Alsabti, et al, çAn efficient algorithm for th e incremental updation of association rules in large databases Proc. of the Third International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Newport Beach California, 1997. 263-266   R. Agrawal, J. C. Shafer, çParallel mining of association rules: design, implementation and experience Special Issue on Data Mining, IEEE Transactions on Knowle dge and Data Engineering 1996,8\(6   H. Lamehamedi, A. D. Bensaid, and E-G. Kebbal Adaptive programming: Application to a semisupervised point prototype clustering algorithm International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Processing Techniques Nevada, USA 1999, pp. 2753-2759 Figure 1.  Scaleup Fi g ure 2.  Relative scaleu p Proceedings of the 15th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAIê03 1082-3409/03 $17.00 © 2003 IEEE 


Table 5. Comparison of our method and the statistical  The performances are all evaluated by the validity check procedure described in Section 3.1 Four structural classes of globular proteins Method of features OMPs Globular proteins All All  2,400 d 6\95 97 98 97 98 96 Our method 400 d 1\ 92 96 98 97 98 93 Statistical method 400 \(dipeptides\95 79 80 71 80 84                             a                        b Figure 2. Performance of each k gapped amino acid pair composition The green lines show the averages of precisions and recalls. \(a\he results on dataset 1. \(b\he results on dataset 2. Note that S  k  Gromih eloped  a s t atis tical m e t h od bas ed  on weighted dipeptide composition to discriminate OMPs from other proteins. Table 5 shows the comparison of our method and the statistical method using the same dataset dataset 2\d evaluation method \(validity check procedure. See Section 3.1 for it\The non-gapped amino acid pair composition d 1\ was used because of the same number of features as the dipeptide composition based method. The result shows a dramatic increase of 17% in the recall of globular proteins and only a 3% decrease in the recall of OMPs relative to the statistical method. It indicates that our SVM method based on non-gapped amino acid pair composition outperforms the statistical method based on dipeptide composition. Using the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 d 6 we obtained the same recall of OMPs and a dramatic increase of 18% in the recall of globular proteins relative to the statistical method. On the other hand, the recalls of the four structural classes are all higher than 93% \(within both d 1 and d 6\ Especially, the recall of all globular proteins of our method achieves remarkable increase of 26% compared to the statistical method. It shows the outstanding capability of our method in distinguishing all globular proteins from barrel membrane proteins. The comparison shows that our method outperforms the statistical method based on dipeptide composition 3.6. Performance of each k gapped amino acid pair composition and other combinations In this section, we have also evaluated the performance of each k gapped amino acid pair composition. The results are shown in Figure 2. Based on some observation of these results, several experiments with other combinations are performed As observed in Figure 2\(a\ the performance of the one-, two-, and five-gapped amino acid pair compositions are better than others. Therefore, a SVM classifier was constructed using a novel combination with S 1, 2, 5 consisting of these k gapped amino acid pair compositions The result shows a precision of 95.0% with a recall of 91.5%. It shows 0.9% improvement in precision and the same value of recall compared to the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2\ Moreover, the average of the precision and recall is over the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3\ and that with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4\. However, the performance is worse than the best performed accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\. Interestingly, the precision and recall of the combination with S 1, 3, 5\re the same as that with S 1, 2, 5 As observed in Figure 2\(b\he one-, three- and five gapped amino acid pair compositions perform better. Using the combination with S 1, 3, 5\e performance Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


achieves a precision of 95.5% with a recall of 96.6%. It shows a decrease of 0.5% in precision and an increase of 1.4% in recall compared to the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2\wever, the performance is worse than the best performed accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\. We also examined the combination with S 0, 2, 4\he performance achieves the precision of 95.7% with a recall of 94.2 These experiments show that these k gapped amino acid pair compositions within a combination contain redundant sequence order information and that the combination with S 1, 3, 5\ contains more discriminative sequence information to improve the prediction result. It also indicates that one-, three- and five-gapped amino acid pair compositions are meaningful for OMPs 4. Conclusion In this paper, we propose a method for discriminating OMPs from other proteins by Support Vector Machines using combinations of k gapped amino acid pair compositions. We analyzed the discriminative capability for different combinations of k gapped amino acid pair compositions. For dataset 1, the performance achieves a precision of 95.5% with a recall of 92.4% when using the combination of k gapped amino acid pair compositions with S 0 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\ There are 0.9% and 7.1% increases in precision and recall, respectively, compared to the method based on frequent subsequences. Furthermore, the number of features is remarkably reduced in our method. It shows that the combination of gapped amino acid pair compositions can capture more discriminative sequence information than frequent subsequences. For dataset 2, the results showed that our method has approximately the same power for discriminating OMPs from globular proteins even in different structural classes and that our method is much more powerful than the dipeptide based statistical method for discriminating OMPs from all globular proteins In this study, several combinations of k gapped amino acid pair compositions are demonstrated to contain valuable sequence information to discriminate OMPs from other proteins. The results indicate that the combination of one-, three- and five-gapped amino acid pair compositions are more meaningful than other combinations for OMPs We believe that further study in the gapped amino acid pair compositions will lead us to understand better the structural regularity of the OMP sequences and biological meanings behind the gapped amino acid pair compositions. Moreover, the high precision and recall of the OMPs as well as the high accuracy of excluding globular proteins represent the potential for identifying OMPs encoded within the genome References 1 Ma rte lli P  L Fa rise lli P  Krog h, A  a nd Ca sa dio, R A  Sequence-Profile-Based HMM for Predicting and Discriminating Barrel Membrane Proteins Bioinformatics  18, 2002, pp. S46-S53 2 Ba g o s  P  G L i a k opoulos T  D  Spy ropou los I.C. a n d  Hamodrakas, S.J., çA Hidden Markov Model Method, Capable of Predicting and Discriminating Barrel Outer Membrane Proteins BMC Bioinformatics 5, 2004, pp. 29 the web service at: http://bioinformatics.biol.uoa.gr PRED-TMBB 3 Big e low H  R P e tre y  D  S., L i u, J   P r z y by ls k i D  a n d  Rost, B., çPredicting Transmembrane Beta-Barrels in Proteomes Nucleic Acids Research 32, 2004, pp. 2566-2577 4 L i u, Q   Zh u Y   W a ng B  a n d L i Y    I de nt if ic a tion of  Barrel Membrane Proteins Based on Amino Acid Composition Properties and Predicted Secondary Structure Computational Biology and Chemistry 27, 2003, pp. 355361 5 She R C h e n  F W a ng K Es te r, M G a rd y  J  L  a n d  Brinkman, F.S.L., çFrequent-Subsequence-Based Prediction of Outer Membrane Proteins SIGKDDê03 August 2003, pp. 24-27 6 G a rd y   J  L  L a ird, M.R., Che n  F., Re y  S., Wa ls h, C. J    Ester, M. and Brinkman, F.S.L., çPSORTb v.2.0: Expanded Prediction of Bacterial Protein Subcellular Localization and Insights Gained from Comparative Proteome Analysis Bioinformatics 21, 2005, pp. 617-623  G r o m i h a M  M  and  S u w a  M   A S i m p l e S t at i s t i cal  Method for Discriminating Outer Membrane Proteins with Better Accuracy Bioinformatics 21, 2005, pp. 961-968 8 G r o m iha M.M., A h m a d, S. a nd S u w a M A pplic a tion of  Residue Distribution along the Sequence for Discriminating Outer Membrane Proteins Computational Biology and Cheminstry 29, 2005, pp. 135-142  Z h ai  Y and S a i e r M   T h e  Barrel Finder \(BBF\Program, Allowing Identification of Outer Membrane Barrel Proteins Encoded within Prokaryotic Genomes Protein Science 11, 2002, pp. 2196-2207 10 B e r v e n, F.S Flik k a K J e ns e n   H  B. a n d Ei dha m m e r I BOMP: a Program to Predict Integral Barrel Outer Membrane Proteins Encoded within Genomes of GramNegative Bacteria Nucleic Acids Research 32, 2004, pp W394-W399 11 H ua S. a nd S un, Z  S up por t V e c t or Ma c h ine A pproa c h  for Protein Subcellular Localization Prediction Bioinformatics 17, 2001, pp. 721-728 12 P a r k  K  J   a n d K a ne h i s a M  P re dic tion of  P r ote in Su bcellular Localizations by Support Vector Machines Using Compositions of Amino Acids and Amino Acid Pairs Bioinformatics 19, 2003, pp. 1656-1663 13 G uo, J L i n, Y  a nd Su n, Z  A N o v e l Me tho d f o r P r o t e i n  Subcellular Localization: Combining Residue-Couple Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


Model and SVM Proceedings of The 3rd Asia-Pacific Bioinformatics Conference January 2005, pp. 117-129 14 G a r d y J  L Spe nc e r C W a ng K Es te r M T u s n a d y   G.E., Simon, I., Hua, S., deFays, K., Lambert, C., Nakai K. and Brinkman, F.S.L., çPSORT-B: improving protein subcellular localization prediction for Gram-negative bacteria Nucleic Acids Research 31, 2003, pp. 3613-17 15 C h a n g  C C and L i n  C J  L IBS V M  A L i b r ar y f o r  Support Vector Machinesé, 2001. Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


on the intention to use self- and e-assessment center as well as the influence of PQI, PCS and PTS on PU it might represent a single example for a specific economy, country or cultural region . There might be differences for the intention of different informnation systems with different settings. Future research should discuss this issue more detailed  Furthermore our questionnaire was just answered by large-scale corporations in Germany. So our results might not be directly transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises  In addition, as we collected our data from participants at the same time using the same survey our results may be affected by common method varian  6. Conclusion  Self-assessment and e-assessment as online games in staff recruiting are a valuable solution for companies to support on the one side their employer branding activities and on the other side the selection of the favored candidate. The case study of our papers shows that companies can generate more qualified applications and concurrently save time and money. Based on these findings our empirical research with 191 of the Top-1000 companies of Germany provide statistical evidence that perceived quality improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings are the main reasons beside perceived usefulness and ease of use why companies intend to use self- and e-assessment in their recruiting processes  References   Bago zzi  R  P   T h e Ro l e  of M easu r e m en t i n T h eo ry Construction and Hypothesis Testing: Toward a Holistic Model", in: Conceptual and Theoretical Developments in Marketing, O.C. Ferrell, S.W. Brown and C.W. Lamb eds.\ago, pp. 15-32, 1979 2 Ba g o z z i R  P  a n d Y i  Y   O n t h e Ev a l ua tio n of  Structural Equation Models", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science \(16\pp 74-94, 1988 3 Ba rtra m  D Testing on the Internet: Issues Challenges and Opportunities in the field of Occupational Assessments in: D. Bartram, and R.K. Hambleton \(eds Computer-Based Testing and the Internet: Issues and Advances, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, England 2006 4 B r o w n, S  A  a nd Ve nk a t e s h V  Model of Adoption of Technology in Households: A Baseline Model Test and Extension Incorporating Household Life Cycle MIS Quarterly \(29:3\pp.399-426, 2005  Bu zzetto M o r e N A   and A l ad e A  J   Best Practices in e-Assessment Journal of Information Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 251-269 6 Ca lig iuri P  M., a n d P h i llips J.M An application of self-assessment realistic job previews to expatriate assignments The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 2003, Vol. 14, No. 7, pp. 11021116 7 Ca rm ine s E. G  Ze lle r R A  1979 Re lia bil ity a nd Validity Assessment. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications 8 Ca s c io, W  F A pplie d P s y c ho log y in H u m a n Re s ourc e  Management, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliffs, NJ, 1998 9 Cha p p e ll, D Ea t oug h V D a v i e s M.N  O  a n d  Griffiths, M EverQuest It s Just a Comupter Game Right? An Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis of Online Gaming Addicition International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 205-216 10 C h in, W  W  T he P a rtia l L e a s t Squa re s A pproa c h to  Structural Equation Modelling", in: Modern methods for business research, G.A. Marcoluides \(ed.\, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, London, pp. 295-336, 1998 11 Ch in, W  W  F re que ntly A s k e d Q u e s tions  Partial Least Squares & PLS-Graph", 2000 12 hill J. R a n d G ilbe r t, A  A P a ra dig m  f o r Developing Better Measures of Marketing Constructs  Journal of Marketing Research 15 \(2\pp. 77-94, 1979 13 C o n nol ly T a nd Sta n s f ie ld M  Using GamesBased eLearning Technologies in Overcoming Difficulties in Teaching Information Systems Journal of International Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 459-476 14 D a v i s  F. D   1 9 89  P e r c e i v e d U s ef ulne s s  P e r c e i v e d Ease of Use and User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly, 13:3, pp. 319-339 15 D o ll, W  J A  H e ndric k s on, a n d X  D e ng  Using Davis s Perceived Usefulness and Ease-of-use Instruments for Decision Making: A Confirmatory and Multigroup Invariance Analysis  Decision Sciences 29\(4\, 1998, pp 839-869 16 Eis e n h a r dt, K   M. \(1 98 9 ilding T h e o rie s f r om Ca s e  Study Research, Academy of Management Review, 14, 4 532-550 17  Fa e r be r, F  K e im T a nd W e itz e l T  An Automated Recommendation Approach to Personnel Selection  In: Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems; Tampa 18  Fe ng M H e ff e r na n, N  T a nd K o e d ing e r, K  R  Addressing the Testing Challenge with a Web-Based EAssessment System that Tutors as it Assesses  Proceedings of the 15th international conference on World Wide Web, Edinburgh, Scotland, 2006, pp. 307-316 19  For n e ll, C a n d L a rc ke r, D F E v a lua ting S t ruc tura l  Equitation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Errors", Journal of Marketing Research, 18 pp. 39-50, 1981 20 G e org e  D I., a nd Sm ith, M.C An Empirical Comparison of Self-Assessment and Organizational Assessment in Personnel Selection Public Personnel Management, 1990, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 175-190 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


21 G r iff iths, M.D., Da v i e s  M.N.O., a nd Cha p p e ll, D  Breaking the Stereotype: The Case of Online Gaming  CyberPsychology & Behavior. January 1, 2003, Vol 6, No 1, pp. 81-91 22 Hu l l an d  J U se o f P a rtial L e a s t Sq u a res \(P L S  in   Strategic Management Research: A Review of Four Recent Studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20 \(4\, pp. 195204, 1999 23 J o ne s L a nd Fle t c h e r C  Self-assessment in a selection situation: An evaluation of different measurement approaches Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2002, Vol. 75, pp. 145-161 24 K e im T  a nd W e itz e l  T  Strategies for Hiring IT Professionals: An Empirical Analysis of Employer and Job Seeker Behavior on the IT Labor market In: Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS\ulco, Mexico 25 L a um e r S Ec k h a r dt, A a nd W e itz e l T   Recruiting IT Professionals in a Virtual World In: Proceedings of the 12th Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems PACIS 2008\uzhou, China 2 L e e I   The Architecture for a Next-Generation Holistic E-Recruiting System Communications of the ACM, Vol. 50, No. 7, 81-85, 2007 27 L e v i ne E.L Flory  A   a nd A s h, R.A  Selfassessment in personnel selection Journal of Applied Psychology, 1977, Vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 428-435 28  Ma lho t ra Y., a n d G a lle tta D. F Extending the Technology Acceptance Model to Account for Social Influence Theoretical Bases and Empirical Validation  Proceedings of the 32 nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2 Lo u H Lu o  W  and St r ong D  2 00 0   Perceived Critical Mass Effect on Groupware Acceptance  European Journal of Information Systems 9\(2\p.91-103 30 N u nna lly J  C., a nd Be rns t e i n, I. H  Psychometric Theory 3rd ed.\ McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994 31 Phil lips  J.M  Effects of Realistic Job Previews on Multiple Organizational Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis  Academy of Management Journal, 1998, Vol. 41, No. 6 pp. 673-690 3  P o d s ako f f  P   M    M acKen zie S  B  L ee J Y  Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003\. Common Method Bias in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 879-903 33 Ri dg w a y  J Mc Cus k e r, S., a nd P e a d D   Literature Review of e-Assessment Nesta Future Lab, Bristol, UK 2004 3 Ry n e s S  L   Recru i t m en t   Job Choice, and Post-Hire Consequences in: M.D. Dunnette, and L.M. Hough \(eds Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto, CA, 1991 35 Ste i nk ue hle r   C.A  Learning in massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Learning sciences, Santa Monica, California, 2004 36 U nde rw ood J  D  M Ba ny a r d P.E. a n d D a v i e s  M.N.O Students in digital worlds: Lost in Sin City or reaching Treasure Island BJEP Monograph Series II Number 5 - Learning through Digital Technologies Volume 1, Number 1, 1 July 2007 , pp. 83-99 36  Ve nk a t e s h V M o r r i s  M  G  un d A c k e r m a nn P  L   2000 A Longitudinal Field Investigation of Gender Differences in Individual Technology Adoption DecisionMaking Processes Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Vol. 83, Nr. 1, S. 33-60 3 W e i ss E  A    Self-Assessment Communications of the ACM, 1990, Vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 110-132 38 W a rd, M G r uppe n, L a n d Re g e hr, G  Measuring Self-assessment: Current State of the Art Advances in Health Sciences Education, 2002, Vol. 7, pp. 63-80 39 Y i n, R. K  20 03 s e Stu d y R e s e a r c h D e s i g n a nd Methods, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, London New Dehli Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


