A Multicriteria Genetic Algorithm to analyze DNA microarray data Mohammed Khabzaoui Clarisse Dhaenens and El-Ghazali Talbi LIFL  UMR CNRS 8022  Bltiment M3 Universiti des Sciences et Technologies de Lille 59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq Cedex  FRANCE Email khabzaou,dhaenens,talbi}@lifl.fr AbstracI Knowledge discovery from DNA microarray data has become an important research area for biologists. Association rules is an important task of knowledge discovery that can be applied to the analysis of gene expression in 
order to identify patterns of genes and regulatory network Association rules discovery may be modelled as an optimization problem In this paper we propose a multicriteria model for association rules problem and present a Genetic Algorithm designed to deal with association rules on DNA microarray data in order to obtain associations between genes Hence we expose the main features of the proposed Genetic Algorithm We emphasize on specificities for the association rule problem encoding mutation and crossover operators and on its multicriteria aspects. Results are given for real datasets I 
INTRODUCTION DNA Microarray experiments have a great interest for biologists thanks to their ability to simultaneously measure the expression and interactions of thousands of genes 5 Genes of similar function may yield similar expression patterns in microarray hybridization experiments Although microarrays have been applied in many biological studies 7 Ill 26 4 231 17 the analysis of the large volumes of data generated large matrices of expression levels of genes under different experimental conditions is not trivial and requires advanced knowledge discovery processes. There exists several kinds of representations available to 
express knowledge that can be extracted from microarray data Many data mining techniques have been proposed to analyze microarray data Here we propose to analyze those data through the association rule technique in order to determine associations between some different regulated genes In this work the association rule problem is modelled as a multicriteria combinatorial optimization problem We propose to solve it using an evolutionary algorithm based on genetic algorithms Therefore specific mechanisms mutation and crossover operators, elitism   have been designed In this paper we firstly present 
the microarray technology As we want Lo analyze these data with association rules the third part presents a multicriteria model for the association rule This works has been partially supported by the Genhamme project French Research Mnistery problem The fourth part proposes an evolutionary algorithm to extract association rules in a multicriteria way It describes the algorithm, the designed operators, and its multicriteria aspects Finally results are given on real datasets 11 MICROARRAY DATA A Microarray technology The microarray technology is now widely used in many 
areas of biomedical research It provides access to expression levels of thousands of genes at once in order to identify co expressed genes relationships between genes patterns of gene activity changes in gene activity of some medical treatments  This technology consists in spotting probes that match a single gene eg complementary DNA of known genes onto small slides of glass Then DNA in particular cDNA is extracted from cells in a reference sample and a test sample and labeled with different fluorescent dyes These labeled cDN.4 are mixed and hybridized with the 
probes Hence measuring the fluorescence \(by scanning for example allows to calculate the relative abundance of cDNA of each gene and then to calculate their expression level There are two main variants of the DNA microarray technol ogy SyntenUStanford chips and Affymetrixchips They differ in  How DNA sequences are put down spotting  pho The length of DNA sequences \(Complete sequences or a tolithography serie of fragments B Preprocessing microarray data phase 5 Analyzing DNA microarray data requires a preprocessine I Gene 
expression level The differential gene expression is calculated by dividing the intensity of the gene in the sample under study by its intensity level in the control. This intensity ratio has a highly asymmetric distribution To avoi'd this problem a logz-transformation is usually used to make a normal like distribution There are many sources of variations of measures in microarray experiments variations in cells or individual mRNA extraction isolation hybridization condition optical measurement, scanner noise etc Normalization can remove 0-7803-85 15-2/04/$20.00 02004 IEEE 1874 


such variations Many techniques for normalization aim to make the data more normally distributed \(Log-transformation per chip and per gene This is an important issue to be able to analyze data 5 2 Analyzing microarray data Many data mining tech niques have been proposed to analyze microarray data Cluster analysis and classification techniques have been proposed to identify genes expression profiles Eisen et al I121 grouped genes sharing similar types of behavior over experiments into clusters Kurra et al 22 described a classification method to discriminate two types of leukemia using heuristic feature se lection and a certain variant of perceptron-based classification method that separates these two classes of leukemia. Friedman et al 15 used Bayesian networks to analyze gene expression data and to discover and describe interactions between genes Recently Deb and Reddy proposed a multicriteria Genetic Algorithm to obtain a reliable classification in cancer data lo Clustering methods allow biologists to design experiments helping them to understand further the relationships among the genes However they do not provide deep insights into specific relationships among the genes to be able to understand underlying biological processes in the cell Here we propose to deal with such data using association rules This is a more general model that allows to find associations between subsets of genes Moreover relations obtained are more precise thanks to the notions of condition and prediction Finally association rules allow to deal with very large data sets 3 Data and missing values We are interested in finding genes that show significant changes between two groups of patients Hence we propose to remove genes that are equally expressed in the test and reference samples over the experiments Moreover there may have numerous missing values in mi croarray data due to the empty spots or because the back ground intensity is higher than the spot intensity. Two ways are commonly used for the treatment of missing values: they may be replaced by estimated values Median for example or corresponding instances are deleted Our approach is different As we want to deal with these data through association rules we propose that all genes that have missing values are keeped without modifications Then when these missing values concern the attributes of a rule these genes are excluded from the computation of the quality of this rule 111 MULTICRITERIA ASSOCIATION RULES We have shown the interest of using association rules to analyze microarray data In this section we present the multicriteria model we propose to deal with this rule discovery problem Hence we first present the classical association rule model for DNA microarray data Then the main question to be able to use an optimization approach is to define the Optimization criteria Therefore we present a survey of the most famous criteria used to evaluate quality of rules Finaly we expose results of a statistical analysis of these criteria which shows that no criterion is universal and that several criteria have to be jointly used in order to evaluate rules in a complete manner A Association rules The association rule problem was first formulated in I and is also called the market-basket problem The problem is the following given a set of items and a large collection of transactions which are sets baskets of items the task is to find relationships between associations contents of various items within those baskets An association rule is an expression of the form IF condl AND condz  AND cond THEN pred This kind of rules contains two parts the IF part which is called the rule condition C and the TIIEN part which is called the rule prediction P The rule condition contains a conjunction of m conditions about values of predictor attributes Hence both the C and the P parts are conjunctions of terms E Association rules for DNA microarray data Microarray data \(gene expression levels may be presented in a very similar way than the Market Basket data format There are two ways to present DNA microarray data 21 Gene table Genes constitute the rows whereas treatments to which the genes were exposed are the columns Clustering and classification may be applied to this table clusters of genes Treatment table Experiments or treatments constitute the rows in the data-table whereas genes form the columns In this case, association rules can be applied to the analysis of gene expressions in order to identify a set of regulated genes associations between genes In our study we will consider data in the treatment table form and will look for rules combining genes where a term can be in the form gene  value Value belongs to the discretized gene expression level An example of a rule could be  IF genela  overapressed AND genesod  underapressed THEN  over-expressed C Quality criteria of a rule In order to solve association rule discovery problem as a combinatorial optimization problem, the optimization criterion has to be defined A lot of measures exist for estimating the quality of association rules For an overview, readers can refer to Freitas Tan et al 271 or Hilderman et al In this section we survey and describe widely used measures proposed by different scientific communities We study eleven the most commonly used measures criteria which have been introduced by statistics probabilities information theory and datamining communities All these measures are presented with their formula in table I Formulas are given for a set of N instances where CI represents the number of instances satisfying the C part of 1875 


TABLE I QUALITY CRITERIA FOR ASSOCIATION RULES Measure I Formula CandP S N CondP Cf   the rule PI the number of instances satisfying the P part of the rule and IC and PI the number of instances satisfying simultaneously the C and the P parts of the rule Support S It is the classical measure of association rule It enables to measure rule frequency in the database It is the percentage of transactions containing, both the C part and the P part in the database Confidence Cf and Laplace L The Confidence measures the validity of a rule It is the conditional probability of P given C Laplace is another measure of validity. It is used to measure precision of classification rules PI Interest I The Interest measures the dependency while privileging rare patterns in the region of weak support Conviction V The Interest has a symmetric behavior To avoid this problem Brin et al 6 have proposed a new criterion 223the conviction\224 It measures the quality of a rule as an implic.ation Surprise R It is used to measure the affirmation. It enables to search surprising rules Jaccard C This measure of similarity is usually used to compute the distance between two text words Phi-coefficient 9 It is a dependency measure which is derived from the Chi-square test This measure is similar to the correlation coefficient in its interpretation The phi coefficient measures the degree of association between two binary variables in statistic Cosine IS It is derived from the statistic correlation and is very interesting in the region of weak Support and strong Interest It is the geometric average of the confidence of two rules J-measure Jm Smyth and Goodman 25 have proposed the J-measure which estimates the degree of interest of a rule and combines support and confidence It is used in optimization 1281 Z Piatetsky-Shapiro PS It is a measure of dependency proposed by Piatetsky Shapiro 1241 It favors rules which predict minority classes D Analysis of these criteria We aim to focus on the correlations between criteria in order to determine a coherent set of complementary criteria group of uncorrelated criteria To study relations between criteria we enumerate all existing rules for a given problem of association rules Then we measure each rule according to the eleven criteria and generate a table where a row represents an association rule and each column represents the quality of this rule according to one criterion We study this data table thanks to the Principal Components Analysis PCA To find strong correlations between criteria we have to find correlations between columns of this matrix These correla tions are summarized by Table I1 matrix of linear correlations between the eleven criteria We can remark a strong correlation between Cosine and Jaccard 0.98 between J-Measure and Piatetsky 0.93 be tween Confidence and Laplace very similar measures 0.99 which are candidate to form three different groups Support is correlated with Jaccard 0.87 then it can be attachad to the first group In the same manner Phi-Coefficient and Conviction can be attached to the second group thanks to their correlations with the Jmeasure Interest and Surprise criteria seem to be atypical criteria and form two other groups. These five groups are summarized in Table 111 TABLE 111 GROUPS OF CRITERIA An analysis in PCA Principal Components Analysis was made on this correlation matrix Figure 1 shows the circle of correlation on the two main axis with 75.44  of inertia and confirms our previous affirmations \(proposed groups of criteria may be distinguished on Figure 1 and proves the significance of the first factorial axis The exposed statistical analysis of the different criteria allows us to group them into five groups where each group is composed of correlated criteria This study has been lead for several databases UCI Microarray data  and gives similar results Here we propose to deal with the association rule problem to model it as a multicriteria problem Therefore we choose for each group one criterion, and obtain five complementary criteria that allow to evaluate rules in a complete way taking into account specificities of several criteria 1876 


TABLE II MATRIX OF LINEARCORRELATIONS Fig 1 Circle of correlation Iv A MULTICRITERIA GENETIC ALGORITHM In order to deal with the multicriteria association rule problem we develop a specific Genetic Algorithm GA 16 as GAS have been widely used to solve multicriteria optimization problems and have been applied with success to monocriterion rule mining problems 20 We adopt a 223A posteriori\224 approach while looking for all the solutions of hest compromise between criteria We expose the main features of the proposed Genetic Algorithm scheme for association rules problem encoding mutation and crossover operators and its multicriteria aspects archive of Pareto solutions, ranking management of the population A A general scheme Genetic algorithms are inspired by Darwin\222s theory of evo lution The algorithm starts with a set of randomly generated solutions population Then, solutions are selected according to their fitness quality to form new solutions offspring In a multicriteria scheme best solutions encountered over generations are filed into a secondary population called the 223Pareto Archive\224 Figure 2 presents the Multicriteria genetic algorithm scheme We choose in this model the five following criteria one of each group\Support, Jmeasure Interest Surprise and Confidence Fig 2 A multicriteria genetic algorithm B Operators for association rules of genetic algorithms Crossover and mutation operators are two basic operators Crossover The crossover mixes the features of two rules by the combination of their attributes The proposed crossover operator has two versions Crossover by value mutation If two rules X and Y have one or several commonattribute\(s in their C parts one common attribute is randomly selected The value of the selected attribute in X is exchanged with its counterpart in Y\(see Figure 3 Crossover by insertion Conversely if X and Y have no commonattribute one term is randomly selected in the C part of X and inserted in Y with a probability inversely proportional to the length of Y The similar operation is performed to insert one term of Y in X\(see Figure 4 1877 


Fig 3 Crossover by value mufation Fig 4 Crossover by insertion of attributes Mutation First two mutation operators were implemented The mutation operation called Value mutation replaces an attribute value by a randomly chosen one see Figure 5 The second one called Attribute mutation replaces an attribute by another The value of this attribute is randomly chosen in its domain see Figure 6 x W]"J-T77q mi 0 Fig 5 Value mumtion I l-l-~I"l pm M E p7m 0 Fig 6 Altributc mufation Adaptive mutation rate Then two other mutation operators are proposed The insertion operator that adds a randomly chosen attribute in the rule and the delete operator that removes an attribute of the rule if the number of attributes is greater or equal to 3 Hence setting the probabilities of appliance of these four mutation operators may be difficult Moreover, the interesting operator at a given time of the search is not always the same Therefore we propose to set these probabilities of appliance in an adaptively way where the more efficient an operator is the more it will be used as proposed in 19 C Muliicriteria aspects Dealing with a multicriteria problem requires adaptation of optimization methods The main difference compared to monocriterion optimization problem is that in multiobjective problem there is not a single solution for which all criteria are optimal but a set of solutions for which there are no other solutions better for all the criteria. These solutions are called Pareto-optimal The notion of Pareto-optimality is defined in terms of dominance. Let's consider a multicriteria minimiza tion problem with k criteria A solution x  XI 22    xb is said dominating another solution y  y1,y2    yL if Vi zi 5 y and 3i I xi  yi A solution x is a member of the Pareto-set or said to be non-dominated if there is no other solution w such that w dominates x We propose to use a genetic algorithm to find all the Pareto optimal solutions solutions of best compromise which are all interesting potential rules They are located on a boundary known as the Pareto-front We would like the solutions to cover the Pareto-front as well as possible to obtain a good representation of this front This approach offers multiple solutions to the decision maker that can select the solution that is best suited according to additional criteria without requiring additional searches In order to deal with multicriteria optimization problems different mechanisms have to be used For example the notion of dominance has to be defined to be able to compare solutions between them and population management has to be carefully studied Selection operator We use the classical roulette selection based on the ranking notion The probability of selection of a solution is proportional to its rank We use two ranking methods 1  Pareio ranking[l3 The rank of a solution correspond to the number of solutions in the current population by which it is dominated see Figure 7 for a minimization problem 2 Non-Dominaied Sorting CA NSGA  This method as signs ranks to solutions by first finding the set of non dominated solutions in the current population. Those solutions are removed from the population and assigned rank 1 As these solutions are removed a new so-called front of non dominated solutions is now present in the remainder of the original population. This second front is extracted and assigned rank 2 This procedure is repeated until no more solutions are mesent in the population see Figure 8 for a minimization problem Crifrii*l cr./sj.o"2 Ftg 7 Parem ranking Replacement operator We use the elitist non dominated sorting replacement The worst ranked solutions are replaced by dominating solutions if there is any generated by 1878 


1 Contribution 11 Pareto I NSGA 1 with elitism with elitism Table IV indicates the contribution of the use of elitism during the selection phase It shows as its contribution is Pareto with elitism I I 0.54 TABLE V CONTRIBUTION PARETORANKING NSGA SELECTION DEI DBI YeastDB Adaptive  12 sol I 31 sol Contribution adaptivdnan adaptive 11 0.54 I 0.71 Contribution PaTeto with elitism NSGA with elitism TABLE VI ADAPTIVEVS NON ADAPTIVE Pareto NSGA without elitism without elitism 0.64 0.15 This result may be explained thanks to Figures 9 and 10 which show the evolution of the contribution between the Pareto front at the end of a generation and the Pareto front at the beginning of the generation over generations When the contribution increases it indicates that at the given genera tion an important improvement of the Pareto front has been realized This two figures show that with the adaptive version of the algorithm, improvements occur longer than for the non adaptive version This yields to better find solutions B Use on real data The second part of our experiments deals with analyzing results produced for microarray data For the following tests the adaptive version with Pareto ranking and elitism is used with the following parameters Size of the population DBI  200 YeastDB  1000 1879 


I  P I m ID 1 r      Fig 9 Contribution over generations with non adaptive version 07      Fig IO Canoibution over generations wiul adaptive version Pareto archive selection \(elitism 0.5 Crossover probability 0.8  Mutation probability 0.4  Number of generations 200 In both databases gene expressions have been discretized thanks to the affymetrix process and may take five values Increase I Marginal Increase MI when the gene is over expressed Decrease \(D\and Marginal Decrease MD when it is under-expressed and No Change NC\when the difference of expression is not significative For a first study on DBI a set of 514 genes that show an interesting differential expression over the set of experiments filtered on the number of No Changes have been selected On the contrary the whole Yeast DB has been used In order to validate the multicriteria approach some 2D projections of the pareto front are given for some pairs of criteria on Figures 11 and 12 On these figures only solutions of the pareto front of the two considered criteria are presented We can conclude that those pairs of criteria are really complementary as solutions good for one criteria are not very good for the second one Moreover the fronts have a large number of solutions that represent different levels of compromise Table VI1 shows some Pareto solutions found for DB1 using the multicriteria model and table VI11 indicates their values for the five criteria Support Jmeasure Interest Surprise and Confidence       0   Fig 11 Pareto Front Surprise I Interest  YeastDB I  I m1 01 0 as a 07 59 Fig 12 Pareto Front Interest I Suppart  YeastDB TahleVIII shows one more time the interest of using the proposed multicriteria model as good solutions for one criteria are not always interesting for another one Rules 11 Description RI 11 if 122=1 and 37kNC and 499=NC 11 and 435zNC then 222=1 11 if 436=NC and 63=1 and 487=NC R2 and 332zNC and 210=1 and 374=NC Ulen 219=1 if 161=1 and 229=1 and 118=D and 503zNC and 311=NC then 39=D if 238=1 and 226=1 and 426=NC then I if\(\(146=I and 318=NC and 499=NC and 435=NC and 457=NC and 479=NC and 367=NC and 457=NC then 222=1 I TABLE VI1 DESCRlPTlON OF SOME PARETO SOLUTIONS OBTAINED DRI For the Yeast Database, results are similar. Here are some genes participating to rules of the Pareto set IDP1 EN02 ALG11 PRS5 CAFBO MRPLZO PETS These genes and relations existing between them form assumptions that must be validated by biologists 1880 


R5 11 0.688 I 0.153 I 1.250 I 0.838 I 0.861 TABLE Vlll QUALITY OF SOME PARETO SOLUTIONS OBTAINED DBI VI CONCLUSION In this work we propose a multicriteria model to extract association rules from DNA Microarray Data We propose to solve it using a multicriteria genetic algorithm that has been developed in our case thanks to the EO Evolving Objects platform http eodev sourceforge net that allows to easily develop evolutionary algorithms once you have designed its specificities Hence we exposed the main features of the proposed Genetic Algorithm scheme for association rule problem and its multicriteria aspects Different operators and mechanisms were compared in order to determine the most suitable scheme This algorithm has been used to deal with microarray data It has shown its ability to produce rules describing relations hetween genes its robustness and its efficiency while producing similar rules from one execution to another The method proposed in this article is able to deal with any data coming from DNA microarray experiments It now has to be used on other datasets Association rules problem has been presented here as a high complexity multicriteria combinatorial problem In order to be able to deal with a larger number of genes without any filtering phase for example a perspective could be the development of a parallel genetic algorithm Moreover the multicriteria model lead to the proposition of a large number of rules that have to be studied. Therefore we devellop ARV http  www lif 1 fr jourdanl download/arv html a visualizing tool to help the selec tion of rules in a multicriteria context REFERENCES I R Agrawal and R Srikant Fast algorithms for mining association rules In Pmreedingr of rhe 20th intl Corferencr on Very large Darabarer.Sa,iriago Chile Sept 1994 21 D.L.A Araujo H.S Lopes and A.A Freim A Parallel Genetic Algorithm for Rule Discovery in Large Databases In Pmc 1999 IEEE Sy$te Man and Cyberneria Con volume 111 pages 940-945 Tokyo Japan October 1999 131 M Basscur F Seynhaeve and E.G Talbi Design of multi-objective evolutionary algorithms Application to the Row-shop scheduling prob lem Congrei rm Evolutionory Con~pufmi~m CEC'02 USA I41 MA Behr MA Wilson and WP Gill WP Comparative genomics of bcg vaccines by whole-genome dna microarray Science 1520-3:284 1999 pages 1151-1156 2002 5 D.P Bem W Dubitzky and M Granzaw A Proctirol Approach Io Mirmorray Dafa Analysi Kluwer Academic Publishers 2003 6 S Brin R Motwani 1 Ullman and S Tsur Dynamic itemset counting and implication rules for market basket data In Pmcsedings ACM SiGMOD USA pages 255-264 1997 7l Po Brown and D Botstein Exploring the new world of the genome with dna micromays Narure Generics Supplemenr 21:33-37 1999 8 P Clark and R Baswell Rule induction wilh CNZ Some recent improvements In Proc Fifth Eumpeon Working Session on Leoming pages 151-163 Berlin 1991 Springer 9 K Deb S Agrawal A Pratab and T Meyarivan A fast elitist non dominated sorting genetic algorilhm for multi-objective optimization Nsga-ii In Pmceedings of rhr Parollel Problem Solving from Nature VI Confennce Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science No 1917 2ooO IO K Deb and A R Reddy Reliable classification of two-class Cancer data using evolutionary algorithms BioSysrems 721 11-129 2003 Ill DJ Duggan M Bitmer Y Chen P Meltler. and JM Trent Expression profiling using cdna microarrays Nature Generics Supplemml 21:IC 14 1999 I21 M.B. Eisen P.T Spellman P.O Brown and D Botstein Cluster analysis and display of genome-wide expression patterns In Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences,95\(25 1998 An overview of evolutionary algorithms in multiobjective optimization Evolutionary Computarion 3:l:l-l6 1995 I41 A Freim On rule interestingness measures Knowledge-Based Sysrems journnl 1999 IS N Friedman M Linial I.Nachman and D Peer Using bayesian networks to analyze expression data In Proceedings of the Fourth An nual inrernalional Conferenceon on Conrpurarional Molecular Biology KECOMB-2OOO 2wO 161 D E Goldberg Genetic Algorithms  in Search Optimirnlion and Machine Learning Addison-Wesley Publishing Company 1989 I71 JG Hacia LC Brody MS. Chee SP Fador and FS Collins Detection of heterozygous mutations in brcal using high density oligonucleotide mays and two-colour fluorescence analysis Nal Med 441-7:14 1996 1181 R Hilderman and H Hamilton Knowledge discovery and interesting ness measues A survey technical repm CE 99-04 Technical repaq Depamenl of Computer Science,University of Regina October 1999 1191 T.P Hang, H Wang and W Chen Simultaneously applying multipke mutation operators in genetic algorithms journal of heuristics 6439 455,2000 201 L Jourdan C Dhaenens and E.G Talbi Rules exuactian in linkage desequilibrium mapping with an adaptive genetic algorithm In Pmceed ingr of the Eumpean Conference on Compurarionnl Biology ECCB'03 pages 29-31 2003 21 P Kotala P Zhou S Mudivarthy W Perrim and E Deckard Gene expression profiling of dna micromay data using peana Count hees In Online Pmceedingr of the Fi~r Virruol Conference on Genomics and Bioinfornmtics UKL htrp://nlidas-iO.rs.ndu.nodalr.edJbio October 2001 I221 G Kurra W Niu and R Bhatnagar Mining micromay expression data for classifier gene-cores In Proceedings of BIOKDD 01 2001 1231 MI Martan JL DeRisi and HA Bennen Drug target validation and identification of secondary drug mrget effects using dna micromays N~I Genel 1293-301:4, 1998 241 G Piatetsky-Shapiro Discovery analysis and presentation of strong mles In Knowledge Discovery in Dolobases AAAiMIT Press pages 229-248 1991 1251 P Smylh and R M Goodman Knowledge Discovery in Databases chapter Rule Induction Using Information Theory pages 159-176 Piatetsky-Shapiro G and Fawley 1 1991 261 PT Spellman G Sherlack, and MQ Zhang Comprehensive identifica tion of cell cycle-regulated genes of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae by microarray hybridization Mol Bid Cell 9:3273-97 1998 271 P-N. Tan V Kumar and J Srivastava. Selecting the right interestingness measure for aSSOCiation patterns In Proceedings of the Eighr ACM SIGKDD conference Edmonmn Conado 2002 081 K Wang S H W Tay and B Liu Interestingness-based interval merger for numeric association rules In R Agrawal P E Stalorz and G Piatetsky-Shapiro editors Pmc 4th Inr Con Knowledge Discovery and Dafa Mining KDD pages 121-128 AAA1 Press 27-31 1998 New York USA 1131 C M Fonseca and P J Fleming 1881 


which loosens the restriction of MAC. More flexibility is added to the model by allowing exceptions during or after method execution [10-11 The purpose-oriented model [21-22 pro pos es  that invoking a method may be allowed for some methods but disallowed for other methods, even when the invokers belong to the same object. This consideration is correct, because the security levels of methods in an object may be different Different methods can thus access information in different security levels The decentralized label approach [1-4 m a rk s t h e  security levels of variables using labels. A label is composed of one or more policies, which should be simultaneously obeyed. A policy in a label is composed of an owner and zero or more readers that are allowed to access the data. When computation are applied to data, join operation is used to compute the label of the result data. This avoids Trojan horses Another feature proposed by this approach is that declassification \(downgrading of security level provided. This allows non-sensitive data, which are in high security level, to be accessed by low security level processes. The model also takes write access control into consideration [4 rren t l y t h e m o d e l  has been used to develop a programming language Jflow [1 ad d itio n   th e m o d e l h a s b e e n  u s ed i n a  distributed system with untrusted hosts through secure program partitioning [30  Role-based access control models [19, 27, 33  define the roles a subject can play. A role is a collection of permissions \(i.e., access rights  When a subject plays a role, it possesses the rights belonging to the role. A subject can play multiple roles and even change role during a session Inheritance and other relationships can be established among roles [27 t o s t ru ct u re t h e m Moreov er  constraints, such as two specific roles should be mutually exclusive, can be attached to roles. The advantage of role-based access control is that subjects can change roles dynamically, which facilitates obeying the \223need-to-know\224 principle. It seems that the role-based models operate well in an application that protects not too many resources because roles should be defined before the application\222s execution. In case that many resources should be protected \(such as every variable in a program should be protected\ining roles becomes tedious and the access control may become imprecise From the survey, we identified many necessary features for controlling information flows in object-oriented systems such as Trojan horse prevention, declassification, purpose-oriented method invocation, and so on. In fact, our model offers those features, although we do not present them in this paper. What we present in this paper are the control of information flows among objects and foreign objects. According to our survey, no model offers the control well  9. Conclusions  This paper proposes a model to control information flows among objects. The model uses associations and method limitations \(ML\ to control information flows among objects. Information flows are controlled by attaching labels to variables. Trojan horses are avoided by join operations. Within an application, every variable and literal is associated with one or more labels. If a variable is associated with multiple labels, each label enforces the security policy of an association. To check the security of an information flow, labels are compared. An information flow is secure if the comparison causes the secure flow condition true In addition to controlling objects developed by programmers, the model also controls foreign objects which are pre-existing objects for reused. Since the details of a foreign object are unknown, our model only prevents foreign objects from becoming Trojan horses. We use the \223Suppression rule\224, \223No ML rule\224 and \223Stuck to rules\224 to control foreign objects We implemented a prototype system to evaluate the model. From the data collected, we found that the model does facilitate identifying non-secure information flows. We thus believe that the model is useful in spite of runtime overhead  Acknowledgement  This research is sponsored by the National Science Council in Taiwan under Grant NSC91-2213-E-259-006  References  1  A  C. My e r s 223 J Flow  P r a c tic a l Mostly S ta tic  Information Flow Control\224 Proc. 26\222th ACM Symp Principles of Programming Language pp. 228-241 1999  A  C M y ers an d B L i sko v  223A De cen t r al i zed M o d e l f o r Information Flow Control\224 Proc. 17\222th ACM Symp Operating Systems Principles pp. 129-142, 1997 3 A  My e r s a nd B  L i s k ov 223 C om ple t e  Sa f e I n f o r m a tion  Flow with Decentralized Labels\224 Proc. 14\222th IEEE Symp Security and Privacy pp. 186-197, 1998 4 A My e r s a nd B. L i sk ov 223 P rote c ting  P r iv a c y using the  Proceedings of t he 36th Ha waii International Conf erence on S y st e m Sciences \(HICSS\22203 0 76 95 18 745/0 3 1 7.00 251 20 02  I E EE 


Decentralized Label Model\224 ACM Trans. Software Eng Methodology vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 410-442, 2000  C J M c Co ll u m  J R M e ssin g  an d L  No tar g iaco m o   223Beyond the Pale of MAC and DAC - Defining New Forms of Access Control\224 Proc. 6\222th IEEE Symp Security and Privacy pp. 190-200, 1990  D E  Bel l a n d L  J L a P a d u l a 223S ecu re Co m p u t er  Systems: Unified Exposition and Multics Interpretation\224 technique report, Mitre Corp Mar. 1976 http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/history/bell76.pdf 7 D  E  D e nn ing  223 A L a ttic e Mode l of Se c u r e I n f o r m a tion Flow\224 Comm. ACM vol. 19, no. 5, pp. 236-243, 1976 8 D  E  D e n n ing a n d P  J  D e nning 223 C e r tif ic a tion of  Program for Secure Information Flow\224 Comm. ACM vol 20, no. 7, pp. 504-513, 1977  D  F  C  Brew er  an d M  J  Nash  223T h e Ch i n ese W a l l  Security Policy\224 Proc. 5\222th IEEE Symp. Security and Privacy pp. 206-214, 1989 10 E Ferrari P   Sam a r a ti, E. Bertin o  an d S. Jajo d i a  223Providing Flexibility in Information Control for Object-Oriented Systems\224 Proc. 13\222th IEEE Symp Security and Privacy pp. 130-140, 1997 11 E B e r tin o Sa br i n a  de C a pita ni di V i m e r c a ti, E  Ferrari, and P. Samarati, \223Exception-based Information Flow Control in Object-Oriented Systems\224 ACM Trans Information System Security vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 26-65 1998 1  F  B S chu ei d er  223E n f o r ceab l e S ecu ri t y P o l i cy 224  ACM Trans. Information System Security vol. 3, no. 1, pp 30-50, 2000 1 G  B o o c h  Object-Oriented Analysis and Design with Application second edition, The Benjamin/Cummings Publishing Company, 1994 1 G  S m i t h an d D  V o l p an o 223S ecu re In f o r m at i o n F l o w  in a Multi-Thread Imperative Language\224 Proc. 25th ACM Symp. on Principles of Programming Languages  pp. 355-364, 1998 15 H M De ite l a n d a n d P  J D e ite l C: How to Program  Prentice-Hall, 2001 16 O M G  223 T he C o m m on O bje c t R e que s t B r ok e r   Architecture and Specification\224 http://doc.ece.uci.edu/CORBA 17 J  A g a t 223 T r a nsf o r m ing out  T i m i ng Le ak s 224  Proc. 27th ACM Symp. on Principles of Programming Languages  pp. 40-53, 2000 1 J Ru m b au gh  M  Bl ah a  W  P r em erl a n i  F  E d d y  an d  W Lo r en s en   Object-Oriented Modeling and Design  Prentice-Hall, 1991 19 K  I z a k i, K  T a na k a a nd M  T a k i z a w a 223 I nf or m a tion Flow Control in Role-Based Model for Distributed Objects\224 Proc. 8\222th International Conf. Parallel and Distributed Systems pp. 363-370, 2001 20 M. D. Mc Ilr o y a nd J A  R e e d s, \223 M ultile v e l Se c u rity  in the UNIX Tradition\224 Software - Practice and Experience vol. 22, no. 8, pp. 673-694, 1992 2  M  Y asu d a T  T ach i k a w a an d M  T aki za w a  223Information Flow in a Purpose-Oriented Access Control Model\224 Proc. 1997 International Conf. Parallel and Distributed Systems pp. 244-249, 1997 22 M. Y a s uda   T   T a c h ik aw a, a nd M  T a k i z a w a  223A  Purpose-Oriented Access Control Model\224 Proc. 12\222th International Conf. Information Networking pp. 168-173 1998 23  P  Sa m a ra ti, E. Be rtino   A  Cia m pic h e tti, a n d S  Jajodia, \223Information Flow Control in Object-Oriented Systems\224 IEEE Trans. Knowledge Data Eng vol. 9, no 4, pp.524-538, Jul./Aug. 1997 24 R  F o c a r di a n d R  G o r r i e r i, \223 T he C o m pos itiona l  Security Checker: A Tool for the Verification of Information Flow Security Properties\224 IEEE Trans Software Eng vol. 23, no. 9, pp. 550-571, 1997 2 G r au b a rt  223On t h e Need f o r a T h i r d  F o rm o f A cce ss  Control\224 Proc. 12\222th Nat\222l Computer Security Conf pp 296-303, 1989 26 R  S  Sa nd hu 223 L a ttic e B a sed A c c e s s C ontr o l M ode ls 224   IEEE Computer vol. 26, no. 11, pp. 9-19, Nov. 1993 27 R  S  S a n d h u  E  J  C o y n e  H  L  F e i n s t e i n  a n d C  E   Youman, \223Role-Based Access Control Models\224 IEEE Computer vol. 29, no. 2, pp. 38-47, 1996 2  S  Jaj o d i a and B  Ko gan  223In t egrat i n g an  Object-Oriented Data Model with Multilevel Security\224 Proc. 6\222th IEEE Symp. Security and Privacy pp. 76-85 1990 29  S. N Fo ley  223A Mo d e l f o r S e cu re In f o rmatio n Fl o w 224  Proc. 5\222th IEEE Symp. Security and Privacy pp. 248-258 1989 30  S. Z d a n c e w ic L Zhe n g N N y s t ro m a nd A C. My e r s   223Untrusted Hosts and Confidentiality: Secure Program Partitioning\224 Proc. 18th ACM Symp. Operating Systems Principles 2001 3 T   T ach i k a w a M  Y asu d a an d M   T aki za w a  223 A  Purposed-Oriented Access Control Model in Object-Based Systems\224 Trans. Information Processing Society of Japan vol. 38, no. 11, pp. 2362-2369, 1997 32 V  V a ra d h a r a j a n a nd S Bla c k 223 A Multile v e l Se c u rity  Model for a Distributed Object-Oriented System\224 Proc 6\222th IEEE Symp. Security and Privacy pp. 68-78, 1990 3 Z   T a ri an d S  W  Ch an 223A Ro l e Bas ed Acces s  Control for Intranet Security\224 IEEE Internet Computing  vol. 1, no. 5, pp. 24-34, 1997 Proceedings of t he 36th Ha waii International Conf erence on S y st e m Sciences \(HICSS\22203 0 76 95 18 745/0 3 1 7.00 251 20 02  I E EE 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


