25-29 July 2004 Budapest Hungary Getting Adaptability or Expressivity in Inductive Logic Programming by Henri Prade lRlT University Paul Sabatier Toulouse, France E-mail prade@;irit.fr Abstruct Introducing fuzzy predicates in inductive logic pro gramming may serve two different purposes  getting more expressivity by learning fuzzy rules or allowing for more adaptability when learning classical rules On the one hand we can thus learn gradual and certainty rules which have an increased etpressive power and have no simple crisp counterpart On the other hand fuzzy predicates in rules can 
be used for dicretization when the database contains numerical attributes In this case the fuzzy counterparts of crisp rules allow us to check the meaningfulness and the accuracy of the crisp rules In this paper we formally describe the computation of the confidence degrees for each type of rules with fuzzy predicates Next we discuss the interest and the application domain of each kind of rules with fuzzy predicates I IN\222I\221RODU\(\221 I\221ION Fuzzy set-based methods have been widely introduced in all areas of machine learning First neuro-fuzzy learning techniques have been developed for tuning fuzzy membership functions in fuzzy rules see IO for a survey The fuzzy rules 
which are produced in that way are used for func tions approximation in automatic control problems Another research line has been investigated with a grcatcr concem for the descriptive powcr of thc fuzzy des from a user\222s point of view by extcnding Quinlan\222s I41 ID3 algorithm to fuzzy decision trces involving a fuzzy dcscription of classes and making use of entropy measures extended to fuzzy sets\for building the fuzzy rules see I for a survey More recently the use of fuzzy membership functions has been advocated by several researchers for providing association rules in data mining with a better representation power e.g 8 Currently the majority 
of these methods for learning fuzzy rules are propositional Inductive Logic Programming \(ILP  1 11 provides a general framework for learning classical first order logic rules for which rcasonably efXcicnt algorithms have been devclopcd \(Progol 9 FOIL 15  As in propo sitional framework the use of fuzzy predicates in ILP allows to give different meanings to implication rules Two recent versions of FOIL  181 131 handle fuzzy membership degrees but only induce one type of rule which in the first work still keep a classical meaning Recently 12 different ways for computing the confidence degree of a fuzzy rule 
have been described Each type of Confidence degree corresponds to a type of implication-based fuzzy rule then it is possible to Using Fuzzy Predicates Mathieu Serrurier IRlT University Paul Sabatier Toulouse France E-mail sermrie@irit.fr induce cach type of rules by using thc appropriate confidence degrcc in FOIL In this paper we propose to extend the research presented in 12 by a deeper analysis of the properties of the different types of first order rules involving fuzzy predicates and of their integration in the ILP fiamework The first interest in the introduction of fuzzy sets in ILP is to provide more expressivity for the learned rules Indeed fuzzy sets are well 
known for providing an efficient representation for imprecise concepts such as 222young\222 222expensive\222 221tall\222  In this scope the rules induced may have a meaning different from classical 223if  thcn\224 rules Thc second way of using fuzzy sets is for tuning the efficiency of the discretization of continuous data Generally speaking the algorithms for learning rules have difficulties for handling real-valued attributes In fact numerical values usually lead to an infinite hypothesis space The difficulties grow up when real numbers appear in the target concept One can deal with real numbers in two manners  either by introducing constraints or by discretization By 
constraints we mean the use of specific predicates or operators such as inequality predicates 2,s   or mathematical functions average  16 Rules induced by this method may suffer from a lack of expressivity and generality Furthermore, algorithms dealing with constraints go out of the scope of the standard resolution process The second way is to use discretization and clusterization to transform continuous information into qualitative information So we come back to the classical logic setting. This method is the most currently used since it allows the user to cope with numerical values and to improve the transition bctu?ccn classes Then fuzzy sets can be used for adapting standard rules induced from crisp sets 
in order to improve the faithfulness or the robustness of the rule with respect to small variations of values of the data or of the boundaries of the crisp sets The paper is organized as follows First we recall some definitions about ILP and fuzzy databases. Next we present two kinds of fuzzy rules whose expressivity is increased with respect to ordinary rules and their integration in the ILP machinery We also describe two other types of rules involving fuzzy predicates whose concern is rather a inattcr COPC fWZY Sets allow US t0 haVC a gradual 0-7803-8353-2/04/$20.00 0 2004 IEEE 73 


FUZZ-IEEE 2004 of adaptability since the meaning of these rules remain close to the one of ordinary rules but Rith some tolerance permitted Lastly we illustrate the approach on a toy cxamplc 11 BACKGROUND A ILP induction is to find a set of formulas H such that  Stated in the general context of first-order logic the task of BUHbE 1 given a background theory B and a set of observations E training set where E B and H here denote sets of clauses. A set of formulas is here as usual considered as the conjunction of its dements Of course one may add two natural restrictions  B B U H E since in such a case H would not be necessary for explaining E I  this means B U H is a consistent theory In ILP there are two ways for describing examples The first describes the set of positive examples E and the set of negative examples E The other describes only positive examples in E and makes the Closed World Assumption It is this hypothesis that we will use along this paper. Each element of E is called an example and we call a counter-example a fact on the target concept which is not in E In the setting not take into account the number of situations covered in the condition part of the rule which is not always the total numbcr of exaniplcs covered sincc we are in a first-order setting In ILP the goal is to learn a concept represented by a predicate E is the set of all facts pertaining to the target predicate B is the set of facts pertaining to predicates other than the target one So the learned rules are in the non-recursive case composed by predicates that appear in B for the condition part and by the target predicate in the consequence part B Fuzzy Databuses We consider a first-order logic database K with fuzzy predicates e.g heavy old  as a sct of positive facts labeled by real nzmbers in_ 11 Thus Er is made of pajs of the form A f  A t 1 for t E Hn where A t  is a fact and A t  is the tisfaction degree associated with the fuzzy property 4 for t  A fuzzy predicate F can be  viewed as a fyily of ordinary predicates F namely f E F iff p\(F t  2 o Thus a rule A\(f f C\(T is naturally associated with thc set of crisp rules of the form 4\(x\(T  C'fi\(7 Notc that if  holds then Z also holds for CL 5 3 Confidence degrees are computed according to the definition ofdoniain probabilities 7 ILP data are supposcd to describe one interpretation under Closed World Assumption Wc call I1f-p this interpretation So given a fact f  I1~p bf iffBAEFf 12 The domain 31 is the Herbrand domain described by B and E We take P as a uniform probability on 3.t So we deduce that the confidence in a clause A  c with as vector on the 17 free variables is  cf\(A\(Z  C\(7ul,r I{f\200?'L I fri,t-+\(,4 t  7\(7 1{-Tcn91 I I q7 where I I denotes cardinality In the following we namc support of the rule the dcnominator of 2 which corresponds to the probability of the satisfaction of the condition part of the rule Another possible definition of a confidence degree might be taken here as the proportion of the number of positive examples covered by the rule w.r.t the number of total examples \(positive and negative covered by the rule This confidence degree would represent the probability that a fact deduced from the rule is true But this definition would 3 4 Grudual Ruks Thezeaning of a gradual rule A\(5 f C'\(2 is the more t is A the more t is B It corrcsponds to the following understanding of fuzzy rules  3 Thus this fbzzy rule is equivalent to a set of ordinary rules with nestedpiicatcs and summarizes it into a unique fuzzy rule Then t is a positive valuation of the rule A\(2  C if and only if B\(7 2 4\(7 So we deduce the computation for the confidence degree  CfyPCl\(t\(A\(a  C\(2  I{T'i"H I I r,r,l=\(A\(c   4 5 T-EH I f,,>PHA\(-F When the valuation of the condition part of the rule is a conjunction of ground literals the satisfaction degree of this conjunction is taken as the minimum of the degree of each literal These rulcs describe a synergetic evolution of member ship degrees of the condition part with the membership degree of the conclusion part of the rule This kind of rule has no simple crisp counterpart If we use it for automatic deduction from a new example wc can deduce a minimum value for 74 


25-29 Joiy 2004 Budapest Hungary the membership degree of the example to the concept Then we can CVdlUak accuracy by checking the validity of this minimum Note that gradual rules are useful only whcn the fuzzy sets used for discretization have a sutliciently restrictive core and a sufficiently large support Indeed if the core and the support of the fuzzy sets were too close few examples would have a membership degree in 0.1 and then gradual rules would not be more informative than crisp ones B Certainy Rules The meaiig of thc fuzzy rule 221\221A\(a i C\(2 is then 223the more t is A the more certain 7 is C\224 For these rules we are not primarily interested in the satisfaction degree of the consequence part The a-cut for these rules corresponds to the following type of classical interpretation Dejnifion I An a-certainty interpretation given a fact f is defined by  Irr--lsrTt I f iff B I f ff 2 a 07\223 E I f 6 With this kind of rules confidence degrees are expected to be high especially for the interpretations which highly match the condition part Thus the idea is that we can be more permissive with respect to exceptions for the classical counterparts of the rulc 223A\(T\222  C\221\(2 corresponding to small values of a So we are led to use thc following Choquet integral 2 c.fcpT,,~\(A\(-2 f C\(-.q  C\221,,\(CIL  az+1  f\(24\(3  a-ah,k,-,,\224t 7 This kind of rules is of intcrcst for lcaming a concept in a broad sense For instance if we consider the concept \223activity\224 of the well-known ILP benchmark database \223mutagenesis\224\222 active molecules have a positive activity level and non-active molecules have a negative one Then the fuzzy sets used will have disjoint parts around 0 A gradual rule may inform on the level of activity of the molecule whilc a certainty rule will be intcrcstcd in knowing if the molecule is somewhat active or not. This kind of rules can be also used for lcaming non fuzzy concept IV ADAP~ABILI-I Y-OKIEN\222I ED RIJL~S Continuous data are very common in machine learning Although numerical attributes can be easily handled by some learning technics such as neural networks or regression the problem is harder for leaming methods based on propositional or first order logic I I 14 Discretization is the method which is the most currently used The discretization can be made at different steps of the leam ing proccss If the clusters are defined before the process starts 222 http web comlab 0x.a uk nucli research areas machlead mutagenesis html the database will be transformed and a label can be associated with each clustcr of valucs This allows the user to leam rules that are easy to understand intuitively Discretization can be made during the leaming process too, and then the clusters can be morc adapted to the data but the readability of the rules may decrease In the case of discretization before the learning process clusters can be chosen in accordance with intuitive concepts \(modeling e.g low old expensive  In the second case clusters are chosen according to entropy criteria SI 6 Regardless when discretization is performed none of the methods take into account the problem raised by the sharpness of the wansition between clusters Indeed if the value of a numerical attribute for a piece of data is close to the boundaries of the clusters used for discretization the values of the membership of the data to the cluster would change for a small variation of the value of the boundaries More generally, commonly used nieasiircs such as support or confi dence degrees can be very sensitive to the choice of the class boundaries and to the variation of the data Since rules are used for prediction and are learned on a sample of data, there exists some statistical discrepancy between values in the training data and values in real data Fuzzy sets can bc used for prolliding gradual transitions between classes In this case, crisp sets are tumcd into fuzzy sets. Givcn a crisp set defined by thc interval I  I I we can define a tizzy counterpart of I for a fixed chosen range c as a trapezoid II\222  I  c/2 I  t/2 I  c/2 I  6/21 Note that the core of 2221\222 I  20013 I  6/31 is included in I and the support of il\222 I--E I++c/2 contains I Then two kinds of fuzzy adaptations of a crisp rule can be introduced which have different properties with respect to the behavior of the crisp rule for variations within a chosen range of values of the data or of the location of the boundaries of the crisp sets We will study their impact on the confidence dcgrce of thc rule A Making Crisp Rules More Rohust The rules will be then referred to as,@aible rules in the following The meaning of a flexible rule 223d4\(Z\222  C\221 is close to the one of a classical rule It corresponds to the following understanding of rules  8 i.e there exists a crisp understanding of the flexible rule which covers each example \(but it is not necessary the same one for each example since cr depends on 2 In pLactice we are expecting that the satisfaction degrees of A t  and C t  are as high as possible So we can introduce the confidcncc degree of a rule for an n-cut  222d7.30 A,\(T  CQ t   We use the product operator for the conjunction For this type of rulc only conjunctions of facts having a satisfaction degree greater than 1 arc considered According to the intended 75 


FUZZ-IEEE 2004 meaning of the fuzzy rule we must favor the confidence degrees of the rule computed for high ck-cuts Indeed we prefer that the examples be covered with a high degree of Satisfaction. The following definition which is an adaptation in terms of first order logic of the one proposed in 2 takes this into account  where  1 2  2 at  0 is the decreasing list of the satisfaction degrees that appear in the database This confidcncc degree corresponds to a discrete integral of the confidence degrees on a-cuts Given a crisp rule with p attributes issued from discretization and its flexible counterpart obtained by using chosen ranges of variation 2001  ep it can be proved I71 that the confidence degree of the fuzzy rule viewed as a flexible rule is the average of the confidence degrees of the corresponding crisp rules for all possible combinations of variations of the values of the data or of the boundaries of the crisp sets on the p attributes according to their respective ranges EX  cp According to this remark we can notice that flexible rules will be more stable than their crisp counterparts with respect to small variations of the sets used in discretization especially when discretizing before the learning process. and the statis tical variations that exists between training data or real data Note that this result remains true if the rule contains non numerical attributes in its condition part or if the conclusion of thc rule does not refer to a continuous attribute In this ease we can regard this attribute as a trivial fuzzy attribute for which membership degrees can only be equal to 0 or 1 Given a rule h issued form a crisp discretization and its fuzzy flexible counterpart h,f according to fixed variation ranges for each attribute if we compare the confidence degrees of h and hf we may have different results If the confidence degree of if is less than the one of h this means that a majority of positive examples of the rule are close to the boundaries of the crisp sets for some attributes and then, the confidence degree of h may decrease rapidly with small variations of the boundaries or when it will be computed from real data If thc confidence degree of hf is greater than the h one the contrary may happen because it means that a majority of counter-examples of the rule are close to the boundaries of the crisp sets for some attributes Then if the support and the confidcncc degrces are high the majority of the examples will be in the core of the fuzzy sets and the rule will not be sensitive to variations 8 Favoring the Accuracy of Crisp Rules A rule is improved i.e made more informative when enlarging the scope of its condition part i.e its support and making its conclusion part more accurate This leads to study the following understanding of the rule with fuzzy predicates  Let us consider two extreme cases of this family of crisp rules The first one is wherc by convention CO is restricted to the support the elements with non-zero membership of the fuzzy set that corresponds to the predicate C In this case the condition part of the rule is very restrictive while one is very tolerant for the conclusion part which is maximally enlarged As can be seen this extreme understanding of the rule is very permissive In fact since we are restrictive for the condition part of the rule the support of the crisp counterpart of the rule will be stable for small variations of values of the data or of boundaries of the crisp sets but the confidence degree may have high variations due to the fact that we are very permissive with the conclu5ion of the rule The second extreme case is 13 Clearly this is more demanding because the scope of application of the rule is enlarged and the conclusion is as restrictive as possible. Then in this view we prefer to cover examples with rules corresponding to a small value of a We now define the logical interpretation corresponding to these rules Definition 2 An ct-improved interpretation Ianmp given a fact f is defined by  B  f E  f and p\(f 2 a 0 and p\(f _ 1  a  0 14 According to the previous remarks the confidence degree of these rules is computed as follows  15 Cfimp\(A\(2 t C\(T  E at  l  cf\(4f  c\(a I  Then, finding crisp rules that have a good confidence degree for their fuzzy counterpart in the sense of this section ensures that if the support may decrease for variations of data or of boundaries of the crisp set the confidence degree will remain stable v 1L.LUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE Let us consider a database that describes houses in a town First we have some fkzy relational predicates such as clo.se\(n y a which means that the house x is close to the house j with a membership degree CY or know\(.e y CL which means that the owner of house T knows the owner of the house j at a degree a from 0 for unknown to 1 for friends The houses are also described with some nearly propositional fuzzy predicates such as expensrvP\(r or srrlall\(z So in this context we can find fuzzy rules of each type with a good confidence degree A typical gradual rule is 76 


25-29 July 2004 Budapest Hungary i.e the larger the house the more expensive it is which describes the fact that price grows up with size A good examplc of a certainty rule is close\(.r y  knm-\(.c y  This rule means the closer the houses the more we are sure that the owners know each other The certainty that the owners of close houses know each other can decrease when the distance between the houses grows up If we are interested in adaptability an example of a flexible rule is in this context close\(x g expensi ue\(y  ex:pe7isice\(z This would exprcss that a house which is closc to an expcnsivc one is expcnsive as well since cxpensiw houses are often located in the same area The Confidence degree of the rule is high if it is viewed as a flexible rule It seems that the crisp countcrpart of this rule whcrc crisp scts correspond to the 0.5-cut of the fuzzy sets has a confidence degree stable with respect to variations of the data or of the boundaries and when the scope of the rule is enlarged Benchmark experiments on gradud rules certainty rule and flexible rules can be found in 12 VI CONCLWON In this paper we have presented different uses of fuzzy prcdicatcs in ILP Fuzzy rules of differcnt types can be induced by using the appropriatc definition of the confidencc degree in FOIL 13 We have shown that fuzzy predicates can be introduced for improving expressivity or adapting crisp rules Gradual rules and certainty rules provide new kinds of summaries of features present in fuzzy databases. Since these summaries involve membership degrees a new definition of accuracy is necded This kind of rulcs are uscful when the database contains predicates whose understanding is typically fuzzy not only predicates issued from a fuzzy discretization of a continuous attributc Rules with fuzzy predicates obtained by fuzzification of crisp sets are used for improving efficiency in the management of continuous attributes Their meaning is the same as for crisp rules and then accuracy can be computed as usual There are two ways of using this kind of rules First in genuine fuzzy databases these rulcs can be learnt togcther with gradual and ccrtainty rules. There are easier to find and they provide rules with a classical meaning The second way is to use rulcs with fuzzy predicates just for the computation of the confidence degrees of crisp rules In this case, automatic methods for turning crisp sets into fuzzy sets can be used during the discretization phase before or during the leaming process It allows to ensure that the crkp rules induced will keep good confidence degree not only on training data and ensure that the confidence degree of the rule is not too dependent on the choicc of the boundaries of the crisp sets uscd for discretization Induccd rulcs arc then used as classical ones Exprcssivity-oriented rules may be appropriate in data mining since wc are interested in this context in finding red able pattcms. Adaptibility-oricnted rules are useful in machine leaming because there are easy to find and they ensure stability with respect to small variations of the boundaries of the sets used for discretization REFERENCES R Rouchon-Meunier and C Musala I earning fwzy decision rules In Fuzz Set in Apprnsimute Reasoning tad Infi~~"liori Systems J C Bezdek D Dtihois I Prade eds The Handbooks of Fuzzy Sets Series pages 279-304 Kluwer Academic Publishen 1999 M Delgado D Sanchez and M.A Vila Fwy cardinality based evaluation of quantified sentences ItiteE J of'Appro.rinzale Reasonbig 23:2346 2000 M Drohics 11 Rodenhofer and E P Klement FS-FOIL an inductive learning method for extracting interpretable fuzzy descriptions Inter national Jotrrnal qf'.4j?pprosimntc Reasoning 32 13 1-1 52 2003 D Duhois and H Prade What are fiy rules and how to use them Fitqv Sets and Sj*stems 84 169-1 89 1996 U.M Fayyad and K.B Irani On the handling of continuous-valued attributes in decision tree design Machine Learning 8 102 1992 U.M. Fayyad and K.B Irani. Multi-interval discrctization of continuouus valued attributes for classification leaming In R Bajcsy editor Piwcecdinp of the 13th Intmzationul Joint Conjiwnce on 4rrificial lnrelligence pages 1022-1027 Morgan Kaufmann 1993 J Halpem An analysis of fist-order logics of probability Artificial intelligence 46:310-355 1990 E Hullcrmcicr Implication-based fuzzy association rules In L De Raedt and editors A Siebes editofi Proc PKDD-01 5th Cont on Priticipks and pratice qf KnOWk?dgC iscaven iu r number 2168 in LNAI pages 2-11--252 Springcr 2001 S.H Muggleton Inverse entililment and Progol Vav Generation Computing 13:245 286 1095 D Nauck and R Kruse Neuro-fuzzy mcthods in fuzzy rule generation In Fuq Sets in Appmximaie Remoning and Injhrmation Systenis J.C Rezdek D Duhois H Prade eh The Handbooks of Fuzzy Sets Series pages 30S334 Kluwer Academic Publishers 1999 S.-ti Nienhuys-Cheng and It de Wolf f.bunriatioirs uflnductive Logir Pro~~tmtnzing Number 1228 in LNAI Springer 1997 H Prade G Richard and M Serrurier Enriching relational learning with fuzzy predicates In Pmc7 tit Europenn Conference on Principle and Pructice of Knowledge Df'wovew in Database PKDD 2003 volume 2838 of LitIcz1 pages 399-410 Springer 2003 tl Prade G Richard and h4 Scrrurier On the induction of different kinds of first-cmter fuay rules In Pmc 7 tlz European Coi$mnccc on Svmholic ad ialitutive Approaches to Heasoiiing with Uncertnin~v IECSQ,4RL;-O volume 271 I of LMI pages 370-381 Springer 2003 J R Quinlan Induction of decision trees Machine Learning 1 81-106 1986 J K Quinlan Learning logical definitions from relations Waehine Learning 5:230-266 1990 J R Quinlan Learning with continuous classes In 5th Aztstruliun Joint Cor?tkrence on Artifiriaf lntel!igence pages 343-348 1992 M Sermrier and 11 Prade The benefits of using fumy discretization for the induction of logic rules IRIT Tech Rep 2004 In submission D Shibata N Inuzukii S Katoand I Matsui and H ftoh Mcthodolo gies for knowledge discovery and data mining In In Ning Zhong and Lizhu Zhou, editors Proreedings qf The TiiM Pacific-Asiu ConfL;rc?ilre on Knouletlge Di.seoi;et:v mid Datu Mitiin~q PAKDD-YY numher 1574 in LNAI pages 268-273 Springer 1999 77 


database D have been found, we can generate association rules from them, for example, we can select some attribute at random, association rule 11 A 12qIs, the support of frequent itemsets \(IJZJ and \(II121s] is 4/9,2/9, respectively then the confidence of association rule II AIz=&amp; is 2/4, as A Iz. whose confidence is U2, U2, U6, 217, 2/2 respectively Similarly, we can generate association rules on the Hasse diagram in Fig. ],for example, association rule II A the support of frequent itemsets \(1112 is 4/9, U9 respectively, then the confidence of association rule I I A I z ~ I S  is 214, as such IzAIS*I~, II*IzAIs. 1 2 3 1 1 AI,, whose confidence is 2 2 ,  2/6, 2/7 respectively However the association rule I z A I s ~ I l ,  Since concept \(121s does not exist, there is an common maximum-sub-concept II121s, Is association rule IzAIs*Il,whose confidence is U2. The results are identified with Apriori in generating association rules Finally, from the same result of association rules Such IIAIs*Iz, IzAIs*II, I,*IzAIs, I z d i  AIS, Is I1 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai  26-29 August 2004 mining base on QECL and with Apriori algorithm, we can reach a conclusion that association rules mining base on QECL has more advantages, the approach presents association rules visual, vivid and concise, improves mining association rules efficiency and avoids the blindness of mining association rules, Above all, user can interactively mine useful association rules on Hasse diagram of concept lattice according to his subjective interests [lo.l  l 9. Conclusions In the paper, we discuss the algorithm of mining association rules base on QECL, Since frequent itemsets and their supports are shown on the Hasse diagram of QECL, it is more convenient for us to mine association rules, improve mining association rules pertinence, reduce searching space of the algorithm. Thus it is ohviously superior to Apnori algorithm, which need to scan databases for a number of times, and sometimes repeat from scratch when the thresholds of support and confidence of association rules have been changed Acknowledgements The paper is supported the National Natural Science Foundation of P. R. China under Grant No.60273044 and the Natural Science Foundation of Anhui Province of China under Grant No. 01042201 References l] R. Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, Arun Swami  Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases  Proceedings of ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, Washington DC pp. 207-216, May 1993 2] R. Agrawal, R. Srikant  Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases  In: Proc. of the 20th Intel. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases, Santiago Chile, pp. 487-499, Sep.1994 3] R. Wille  Restructuring lattice theory: An approach based on hierarchies on concepts  in Ordered Sets_ Rival, ed 1982 4] Hu Xuegang. Etc  The Design Knowledge Representation and Reasoning in Intelligence CAD Based-on Extended Concept Lattice  In h c .  of 3rd Intemational Conf. on Computer-Aided Indusbial Design and Conceptual Design, Hang Kong, pp 460-463, Nov. 2000 5]  Hu Xuegang. Etc  The Research on Design Knowledge Representation and Acquisition in Intelligence CAD  In hoc .  of 2nd Intemational Conf 


Intelligence CAD  In hoc .  of 2nd Intemational Conf on Computer-Aided Industrial Design and Conceptual Design, Bangkok, Thailand, pp. 236-239, Nov. 26-28 1999 6] Hu xuegang, The Research of Models on Knowledge Discovery in Databases VH.D Dissertation] Hefei university of Technology, Hefei 2000,Anhui. P. R China. \(in Chinese 7] J. Deogun, Vijay V. Raghavan, Heayn Sever  Association Mining and Formal Concept Analysis   In: Anita,W,San,C Eds. Proc. of the RSDMGRC  98 Duke: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1998 G. Snelting  Reengineer of Configuration Based on Mathematical Concept Analysis  ACM Transactions on SoftwareEngineering and methodology, S\(2 146-189, 1996 9] Jiawei,Han,Micheline,Kamber, Data Mining xoucepts and techniques,Morgan Kaufman Publishers,San Francisco,pp.227-236, 2001 IO] De-Xing Wang, Xue-gang Hu, Hao Wang  The Research on the Model of Mining Association Rule by Interest-Weighted on Concept Lattice  Journal of Nanjing University \(Natural Sciences Computer Issue 11, pp. 89-95. Nov. 2002 111 De-Xing Wang, Xue-gang Hu, Hao Wang  The Research on Model of Mining Association Rules Based on Quantitative Extended Concept Lattice   IEEE Pro. of ICMLC2002 Conference, Beijing pp.134 -138, Nov. 2002 8 1624 pre></body></html 


and fuzzy minimum support sets along with average weight intervals. For this purpose, we have used three linguistic intervals for which random linguistic weights have been generated, namely very-Unimportant, Ordinary Ordinary, Very-Important] and very-Unimportant, Very Important], denoted W-0,O-VI and W-VI, respectively Figure 6 gives the number of rules with respect to the minimum support threshold at level 1. In this experiment the minimum supports at the other levels are adjusted to middle-below whose set is different for both level 2 and level 3 as shown in Figure 7. In a similar way, Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the correlation between minimum support in linguistic terms for two different levels and the number of rules produced. From the two figures, it can be easily seen that the number of rules mined decreases along with the increase in linguistic minimum support thresholds. Also more rules are generated for the linguistic weights of the higher fuzzy set. For example, the curve having [0-VI linguistic weights has generated more rules than the others especially [W-01 ones K C y b W  I O W  mdme- mdmr- t"@ -hi Minimum Suppans at Level I trl0.S .*a Fig. 6. Number of tules for various linguistic minimum suppart values M l r u n ~ P W . N h L e 3 1 \( X Fig. 7. Fuzzy Sets of minimum support tisod for different levek 0 1wo - 2 3000 b *cm E i 1000 W y l O W  IOW md*- mac- hlgh UnjY MinimumSupponsat Level 2 t r l O r x  *Ma Fig. 8. Number of mles far various linguistic minimum support values lam 6Mo 5000 4000 3 a a I 2000 1000 0 velylow IOW middle- middle- high vely below above high Minimum Suppofs SI Level 3 Fig. 9. Number of wi.5 for various linguistic minimum suppolr values In the second set of the experiments, the runtimes of the first experiments are compared. The achieved results are reported in Figures 10, 11, and 12, which do meet our expectations, i.e., the runtime decreases as the minimum support thresholds increase 229 V l o r  ,ow d d m C b . b V d d , n ~ ~  b.$h V Minimum Suppans at Love1 1 Fig. I O .  Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level I  a i l o w  I O U  iddie  iddie- ugh rnyw ow above Minimum Suppons at Level 2 Fig. 11. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum mpportr at level 2 SenI 4 \\  I  E a  2 Y O y l O U  IOW  Mle- rmddlr- hgh  nyhgh Minimum Suppolts 81 Love1 3 below .bow Fig. 12. Runtimes for various linguistic minimum supports at level 3 vrrylov IOW riddle. Mddlr high v q h i g h r l o w  nbmr Minimum Confidence Fig. 13. Number ofrules for various linguistic minimum confidence In the last experiment, the minimum support has been fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for 


fixed at the linguistic value middle-below and we tested, for three fuzzy regions, the effect of using linguistic terms to express confidence in similar way to the membership functions of minimum support used for level 1 shown in Figure 4, on the number of generated association rules. The results plotted in Figure 13 reveal two important features One of them is that the number of rules decreases, for all cases, as the linguistic confidence threshold increases. The VII. CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we proposed a mining approach for extracting interesting multi-cross-level fuzzy weighted rules in a given taxonomy. A top-down progressive deepening technique has been used while mining multi-cross-levels weighted association rules. Also, three important criteria minimum support, minimum confidence and item importance used in determining the interestingness of the rules have been represented by fuzzy sets. So, we obtained more meaningfid rules that are more understandable for human beings. As apart from the studies described in the literature, we defined the concept of weighting internal nodes in a given taxonomy. The experiments conducted on a synthetic database showed that the proposed approach produces consistent and encouraging meaningful results Currently, we are investigating the possibility of combining the approach proposed in this paper with the concept of adjacency lattice for online mining REFERENCES I ]  R Agrawal, T. Imielinski and A. Swami  Mining association NI~S between sets ofitems in large databases  Proe. ofACM SIGMOD. pp 207-216, 1993 121 R. Srikant and R Agrawal  Mining quanlitative association NI~S in large relationaltables  Proc. ofACMSlCMOD, pp. 1-12, 1996 3] RJ. Miller and Y. Yang  Association Rules over Inten,al Data  Proc ofACMSIGMOD, pp. 452.461, 1997 4] B. Lent, A. Swami and J. Widom  Clustering Association Rules   Proc. oflEEEICDE, pp. 220-231, 1997 5] L.A. Zadeh  Fuzzy Sets  In/ormntion and Connol, vol. 8, pp. 338 353, 1965 6] W. Zhang  Mining Fuzzy Quantitative Association Rules  Proc. of IEEE ICTAI, pp. 99-102, 1999 7] K.C.C. Chan and W.H. A    Mining Fuzzy Association Rules: Proc o f . 4 C M C / M ,  pp.209-215, 1997 SI K. Himta and W. Pedrjcz  Linguistic Data Mining and Fuzzy Modelling  Proc. ofEEE-FUZZ, pp. 1448-1496, 1996 9] T.P. Hong, C.S. Kuo and S.C. Chi  Mining Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Inrelligenr Dolo Analysis. vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 363 376, 1999 I O ]  T. P. Hong, M. J. Chiang and S .  L. Wang  Mining from Quantitative Data with Linguistic Minimum Supports and Confidences  Proc. of IEEE-FUZZ, pp. 494-499. 2002 Ill H. Ishibuchi, T. Nakashim and T. Yammato  Fuzzy Association Rules for Handling Continuous Attributes  Proc. of IEEE Inle,aarionolSyn~posium on Indumiol Elecnonics. pp.l18-121,2001 I Z ]  M. Kaya, R. Alhajj, F. Polat and A. Arslan  Eflicient Automated Mining of Fuzzy Association Rules  Proc. qfDEX1, 2002 1131 C.M. Kuok, A.W. Fu and M.H. Wong  Milung fuzzy association rulesin&amp;tabases  SIGMOD Record, Vo1.17,No.l, pp.41-46. 1998 1141 W. Pedrjcz  Fuzzy Sets Technology in Knowledge Discovery   Furzy Sen ondSystems. pp. 279-290, 1998 1151 R.R. Yager  Fuzzy Summaries in Database Mining  Proc. of llre International Confireme 011 Artificial InteIligence/or Application, pp 265-269, 1995 1161 R Snkant and R. Agrawal  Mining generalized association ~ l d   Proc. of VLDE, pp. 407-419, Zurich. Sept. 1995 I71 1. Ha  andY. Fu  Mining Multiple-Level Association Rules in Large Databases  IEEE TKDE. vol. 1 I ,  pp. 798-805, Oct. 1999 IS] T.P. Hang. K.Y. Lin and B.C. Chien  Mining Fuzzy Multiple-Level Association Rules from Quantitative Data  Applied Inrelligence, vol 18, pp. 79-90,2003 


18, pp. 79-90,2003 1191 T.P. Hong, K.Y. Lin and S.L. Wang  Fuzzy data mining for interesting generalized association tules  Fuze Sets and Syslrms, vol 1 3 8 . ~ ~ . 2 . o o . 2 5 5 - 2 6 9 . ~ e n t .  2003. .~ ,.. 1 .  other is that the number of  rules tends to decrease along 1201 S. Yue, el -Mining f U q  NleS items   with the increase in the numbers of fuzzy regions. This is reasonable because a large number of regions will make quantities of an item in different transactions easily scattered in different regions prOe. o j m E s M c , p p .  1906-1911,2000 1211 C.H. Cai, et al  Mining Associalion Rules with Weighted Items   1221 A. Gyenerei  Mining Weighted Association Rules for Fuzzy Quantitative Items  TUCS Technical Report No: 346, May 2000 1231 R Agrawal and R Srikant  Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules  Proe of VLDB, pp. 487499, Sept. 1994 OfrDEAs, PP.68-77. 1998 230 pre></body></html 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


