Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 AN INHERITABLE CLUSTERING ALGORITHM SUITED FOR PARAMETER CHANGING FE1 LI SHANG LIU, ZHI-TONG DOU YA-LOU HUANG Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing, College of Information Science  Technology, NanKai Universiv Tianjin 300071 P.R CHINA E-MAIL  kindking,liushang, douzhitong  mail,nankai,edu.cn huangyI@office.uankai,edu.cn Abstract DBSCAN is a classic density based algorithm and it 
dusters the data set according to the user input parameters This paper investigates how to inherit the mining results of last time when parameters change A new incremental clustering algorithm IPC-DBSCAN is proposed which gets the same result as that of rerunning DBSCAN yet high efficiency is achieved Theoretical analysis and experimental results show that the proposed method reduces search 
space greatly and has novel efficiency By interaction IPC-DBSCAN gets the most satisfying result quickly and especially snits large volume data set Keywords  Data Mining DBSCAN Inheritable mining 1 Introdudion With data collection becoming easier and easier, many companies gather a vast amount of data. As a result there has been an enormous change in the environment and objects of data mining New characteristics emerge first the data is of great volume and usually high-dimensioned Second the whole environment is dynamic large number 
of updates happen frequently In this kind of large dynamic data environment, traditional data mining method which assume that the input data and parameter is static is unsuitable Data mining should not be looked on as a one-pass solo procedure It is a continuous process working on evolving data and changing parameter In this situation inheriting the previous knowledge is the key, which avoids re-mining saves the time and makes DM a continually running system In fact inheritable data mining is an attractive goal and become more and more important Its 
basic idea is as follow when data or parameter changed the algorithm updates the mining result based on the former outcome Compared with rerunning the algorithm inheritable algorithms have much higher efficiency and can fit dynamic and interactive environment better In this paper we focus on clustering. As we all know most of the well-known clustering algorithms require parameters which have a significant influence on the clustering result Struggling with the problem of updating clusters without frequently performing complete reclustering when parameters change we present an inheritable clustering algorithm Our algorithm is based on the efficient clustering algorithm for metric databases 
DBSCAN I As a density-based classic algorithm DBSCAN clusters objects according to user input parameters e and Minpts Reasonable parameter is key to the algorithm and can affect clustering result greatly. Users have to adjust E and Minpb again and again for better result This is an interactive processing and usually very costly if the data set is of large scale So it is emergent for effective inheritable algorithm to solve the problem We demonstrate the high efficiency of proposed method on some synthetic and real world data sets The 
rest of this paper is organized as follows We discuss related work on inheritable algorithms in section 2 In section 3 we briefly introduce the clustering algorithm DBSCAN The clustering algorithm for inheriting the previous results to deal with parameter changed situation IF'C-DBSCAN is presented in section 4 The experimental analysis is reported in section 5 and section 6 concludes with a summary 2 Related Work Now inheritable data mining is a new research area D.W.Cheung[2' first considered the efficient updates of association rules and put forward 
the frst incremental Apriori algorithm named FUF Fast Update which focus on how to get association rules in the whole data set, when new transaction set d added to D In 2001, Ming-Syan Chen Chang-Hung Lee explored an effective sliding-window filtering \(abbreviatedly as SWF algorithm for incremental mining of association rules By partitioning a bansaction database into several partitions SWF employs a filtering threshold in each partition to deal with the candidate   0-7803-8403-2/04/$20.00 02004 IEEE 1198 


Proceedqs of the Third Intemational Conference on Machine Learning and Cybemetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 itemset generation Ester M presents algorithms for incremental attribute oriented generalization with the conflicting goals of good efficiency and minimal overly generalization Yu Cai Feng 51 exploited two other novel incremental algorithm IUA and PIUA They mainly considered how to update the result effectively when support and confidence changed Manin Ester 221\224\221 devised the first incremental clustering algorithm for DBSCAN According to the local property of DBSCAN the new algorithm needs only to detect the affected area and then make some adjustment which minimizes the search space and improves efficiency greatly 3 The algorithm DBSCAN The key idea of density-based clustering is that for each object of a cluster the neighborhood of a given radius has to contain at least a minimum number of objects Definition 1 directly density-reachable An object p is directly density-reachable from an object q wrt E and MinPts in the set of objects D if 1 p E NE\(q NE\(q is the subset of D contained in the E-neighborhood of q 2 Card\(NE 4 2 MinPts Definition 2 density-reachable An object p is density-reachable from an object q wrt E and MinPts in the set of objects D denoted as p D 4 if there is a chain of objects pl  pn pl  q pn  p such that pa ED and pr+l is directly density-reachable from pL wrt E and MinPts Figure 1 Definition 3 density-connected An object p is demityconnected to an object q wrt E and MtnPts in the set of objects D if there is an object o ED such that both p and 4 are density-reachable from o wrt E and MinPts in D Figure 2 To find a cluster DBSCAN starts with an arbitrary object p in D and retrieves all objects of D density-reachable from p with respect to E and MinPts If p is a core object this procedure yields a cluster with respect to E and MinPts If p is a border object no objects are density-reachable from p and p is assigned to the noise Then, DBSCAN visits the next object of the database D There are three kinds of objects sets core objects set denoted as COreD border objects set not a core object but density-reachable from another core object\denoted as BorderD noise objects set not a coreobject and not density-reachable from other objects\\(Figure 3  Figure 1 Density-reachable Figure 2 Density-connected Figure 3 Three kinds of object 4 IPC-DBSCAN In DBSCAN algorithm the users have two kinds of requirements for the result I acquisition of clusters with high density 2 acquisition of clusters with low density Both of the above needs can be met by adjusting E and Minpts and rerunning the algorithm until satisfactory result is achieved. But the cost of this method is\222very high on very large database and no previous mined knowledge is saved and utilized which wastes much processing time So from the viewpoint of timely response, inheritable.updating algorithm is desirable Obviously the density of clusters gained is in inverse ratio with E and direct ratio with Minpls To seek clusters with high density we can decrease E or increase Minpts On the contrary to seek clusters with low density we can increase E or decrease Minpts The two parameters play an opposite role but can anain the same purpose in affecting clustering result To simplify the analysis of the problem we can only consider the case of Minpts increase and decrease Lemmal on data set D we get k clusters by DBSCAN under parameter E andMinPts Denote the set of points contained in cluster as C then C CluC2uC  uC~,.where C is the points set of fh cluster The set of noise object is denoted as NoiseD We get k2 clusters by DBSCAN under parameter E\222 and MinPts\222 Denote the set of points contained in cluster as C\222 C\222 C\222luC\2222uC\2223...uC\222m The set of noise object is denoted as NoiseD\222 D=CuNoiseD,C\222 uNqiseD\222 then 1 if MinPts MinPts\222 then CcC Noise&NoiseD\222 2 if MinPts MinPts\222 then QC\222 Noise&VoiseD\222 Definition 4 changing object the point whose core object property changed. Denote ChangedD 221dpl@sCoreD wrt MinPtsAp c wn.MinPts\222 v e wn.MinPts 222 denote the affected area as wn MinPtsAp E CoreD Definition 5 affected area ifpieChangedDthen we 222 Aflectedo\(pi NE fpi u[ql 3 o E NE\(pJ A4 Db1 Definition 6 seed objects for the update\we define 1199 


Proceedings of the Tbird Intemationd Conference on Machine Laming and Cybemetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 the following notions  Upheed  qlqs CoreD WrthfinPts 3q's Chnnged,Aqs NW  We call the objects qE Updseed seed objects for the update Note that these sets can be computed rather efficiently if we additionally store for each object the number of objects in its neighborhood when initially clustering the database Defdtion 7 key core objects and non-key core objects an object p is density-reachable from an object q wrt E and MinPts Delete the core object pi in the core objects chain p p2, ...,p if there is not an object pi to maintain p  pi p as a core object chain then pi is the key core object of the chain Otherwise pi is led the non-key core object of the chain It is self-evident of Lemma 1's correctness It demonstrates that when MinPrs decreases the original clusters will expand and part of the noise objects may be absorbed into some clusters So our algorithm should work on the set of noise object i.e Noise On the other hand when MinPts increases the points in a cluster may become noise object and our algorithm only need to work on the set of points contained in clusters Lemma 1 is the foundation of IF'C-DBSCAN Because of the existence of changing objects some density-reachability may be built or desmyed which leads to the change of clustering result and so rerunning algorithm is needed The affect of each changing object is local and can only cause the core object   property change of data in the affected area Outside of this area the core object property will not be affected Update seed set is the beginning of searching the affected area Expanding from this set the searching proceed can cover all the affected area of all changing objects The basic idea of E-DBSCAN is as follow 1 According to changing objects set, find seed objects for the update 2 Perform density-connection expanding from each seed object 3 During the expanding process adjust objects cluster label if needed in affected area During the above procedure key core objects and non-key core objects are of great importance to PC-DBSCAN If a key core object disappears deleted or changed into a non-core object the density-connection of the cluster will be destroyed which leads to the split of the cluster If a new key core object is created the merge of some clusters may happen To a non-key core object its addition or deletion won't cause chain-reaction If the algorithm runs and the existence of only one pi is detected another density-connection path exists the connection propeq of the original clusters is guaranteed and the search process In the implement of PC-DBSCAN to get the changing objects set the following information of its in    canstop each node's neighborhood is saved 1 Number of objects in the neighborhood denoted as Neighbors.counr 2 Identity of each object in the neighborhood and its distance to the core object. According to the above information the changing objects can be detected by only one scan of Neighbors.coun Additionally when cluster merge occurs we need only record the label of the cluster that is to be merged and change the label at one time when expanding finisb In this way the time cost of the algorithm can be greatly reduced and efficiency be greatly enhanced 4.1 The case that MinPts decreases When MinPts decreases the threshold for a object to become a core object decreases some sparser populated regions can become part of a cluster In this case cluster expands and never shrinks For the three different objects in the dataset I Core objects remain core.objects and will not cause any changes to the clustering result 2 Border objects If the number of points witbin its E-neighborhood is smaller than the new MinPts value a border object remains a border object. Otherwise the border object will change into a core object and thus belong to the set of changing objects 3 Noise objects The noise objects may become core objects, and thus belong to the set of changing objects When h4inF'ts decreases the changing objects will cause the following cases to the clustering result 0 _.~..._ 0  0  I Ooo i   _ _ Cs$sl No rh cas 1 CreafioW _.-._ soo 0 Fb;oo,o Q I iB.p-....p o 0  o 0 Q   0 o$Q  Cue 3 Hxpsndiw Figure 4 Four cases for MinF'ts decrease 1 No change If ChangedD is empty no change bappens.\( Fig 4 case 1  2 Creation If ChnngedD includes some of the former noise objects new clusters will emerge.\(Fig 4 case 2 calm 4 Merea 1200 


 Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Shanghai 26-29 AGst 2004 3 Expanding If Changedn include some of the former border objects, the cluster contains such border objects will expand.\(Fig 4 case 3 4 Merge The cases 2 and 3 both can lead to mergence of some closely located clusters.\(Fig 4 case 4 Table 1 Pseudo code for MinF\222ts decreases If Changedn=O then Msgbox \223No change\224 Else For each object oi in Changedn Para-changed-expand Next Endif Merge clusters in Merge-queue Para-changed-expand If oi is a noise then Current id a new cluster id create cluster Else Current id=the id of oi border obj expanding End if For each oj in NE oJ If oj is a noise then idoj  Current id if\(oj E Changed,\222 End if Save idoj to Merge-queue I to merge put oj into Seed-stacid to expand Else End if Next While Seed-stack is not empty Current-object Seed-stack.top For each ok in NE Current-object If Ok is a noise\then idd  Current id if\(ok E Changed  End if Save id to Merge-queue put ok into Seed-stack Else End if Next Seed-stack.pop Retum From the above analysis we know that Changed&BorderDuNoiseo So it is easier to find Changedn Beginning with the changing objects IPC-DBSCAN focuses its search in the affected area which is much smaller than the whole data set on which re-DBSCAN work Its performance advantage is obvious By inheriting the previous clustering information it greatly reduces search space. Most of its process is just limited in BordernuNoisen  221   cue 3 sad cusp Re\223  Figure 5 Four cases for MinPts increase 4.2 The case that MinPts increases When MinPts increases, the threshold for an object to become a core object increases only the denser regions can form a cluster and the previous clusters shrink For the three different objects in the dataset 1 Corepbjects if still satisfying the new Mi value it remains a core object otherwise it becomes a border object or noise which means it belongs to Changedn border objects A previous border object may become a noise object\(when there are no core objects in its E-neigbborhood remain a border object\(when a new core object exists in its neighborhood But such objects do not belong to the changing object set and will not cause other points to change 3 noise object The noise objects will remain noise objects and will not cause any change to other objects Wheu MinPts increases the changing objects will cause the following cases to the clustering result 1 No change When ChangedD is empty no change happens Fig 5 case 1 2 Removal If the only core object in the previous cluster becomes a non-core object the cluster should be removed; \(Fig 5 case 2 3 Shrink: Some of the previous core objects may become non-core objects the border objects in the neighborhood of such core objects will become noise unless other core objects in the neighborhood exist In this case the cluster shrinks Fig 5 case 3 2 1201 


Proceedu of the Third Intemational Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 4 Split The disappearance of core objects that work as a bridge between two high density regions will cause a previous cluster divided into two clusters Fig.5 case 4 When MinPts increases Changed CoreD and changes are limited within the clusters in the previous result In each cluster we adopt proper update .strategies according top  the ratio of the changing objects number to the total point numbers in each cluster which is defined as follow  p=IChangedciIACiI Where Changedais the set of the changing objects in Ci ICiI and\222 IChangedcil are the number of total number points in the cluster and the number of changing objects respectively. Then the update strategy is 1 When p is greater than a thresholdTHRESHOLD the DBSCAN algorithm is rerun on the set of the new core objects to get a new cluster result 2 When p is smaller than or equal to THRESHOLD algorithm Et-DBSCAN is executed to update the cluster result In the second situation IPC-DBSCAN gets Changedci and the seeds for update Updseed by retrieving the inherited information Then the connection of core objects in Updseed is detected there are two cases 1 during the expanding of one object, the queue of the update seed is covered completely 2 There are still other objects in the queue of update seed when the expanding of one pint ended The first situation means that there are no key core objects in Changedci and the connection of seed 221objects is not destroyed While the second situation indicates the existence of key core objects in Changedci which induce the split of cluster With each expansion ended a new cluster is created. Different from DBSCAN algorithm\222s depth first search width fmt search is employed here i.e store the update seeds with queue not stack When checking the COM~~~~OU of seed objects, width first search is utilized In the worst situation an object exoands to the whole original cluster before the seed queue experiments are conducted on a PC with Intel Pentium 3 Table 2 Pseudo code for MinF\222ts increases If ChangedD=O then Msgbox 223No change\224 Else For each Cluster Ifp,,,,>THRESHOLD then Else End if End if Para-changed-expand0 Updseed=cetSeedobj\(om For each oi in Updseed If\(not Expand\(oi then Else DBSCAN\(Dm-mmobj Pan-changed-expand Mark,obj in D,ew with a new id Mark obj in DlnP with original id Exit for  without split End if Next Retum Put obj in Neighborhood\(o3 to Dlew Put new core obj in NE 0 to Seed-queue While Seed-queue is not empty Current-object Seed-queue.headO For each ok in NE Current-vbject Put obj in NE oJ to D,ew Put core obj in NE oJ to Seed-queue ExpaMoi Dtew Next Seed-queue.delete0 If\(UpdseedG Dtcw Expand=l Updseed covered in expansion Return finish searching in advance End if Expand=O Updseed not be covered I is empty That is to say only by checking all the core objects the algorithm affiis the connection of the objects in the seed queue In this situation the complexity is similar to that of running DBSCAN But mostly Ipc-DBSCAN can fmish its searching process in adviuae because of using width first search 5 Experimental result 5.1 Test Environment and Data Sets processor and 128M SDRAM memory and Microsoft SQL Server 2000 database system In the fmt two experiments we used Matlab and randomly generated two groups of synthetic data all of which follow Normal distribution \(Figure 6 We use UCI standard dataset in the last three experiments, that is 1\Wine dataset 13 dimensions, and 178 entries 2 Vowel dataet 11 dimensions Non-numerical 3 Letter-recognition dataset 16 dimensions and attributions are extracted and 990 entries 2oooO\221entries I We experiment on five different data sets All of our 1202 


53 experiment pdure 6 Conelusions Now we will compare the performance between the IF\222C-DBSCAN and DBSCAN rerunning In order to analyze the accuracy and efficiency of the algorithm we record the time cost and search space of Ipc-DBSCAN and DBSCAN separately \(Table 3 and 4 Table 3 Changi h4inpts from 15 to IO DBSCAN 1 IK-DBSCAN MinPts I MinPts\222 I Time I Searchspace Data sets iwii  18m Ilbs I_ E 1 Vowel 59ms 67ms 17ms letter-rec 6ooms 67h 54ms s 1100 3oms 3bs lOms 30 s loow 2x 2Mms 39ms 20 I Proceedings of the 221Ihird International Conference on Machine Laming and Cybemetics Shanghai 26-29 August 2004 1203 Figure 6 Data distribution Figure 7 Different data scale 5.3 Analysis of the experiment result There are several advantages to use E-DBSCAN Fmtly it is its Correctness The result of Ipc-DBSCAN is the same as that of re-conducting DBSCAN which is the base for existence of inheritahle algorithm Secondly IPC-DBSCAN dramatically lower the searcbing space see Table 3and 4 which has a small proportion in the dataset and shoaen the running time usually 5-10 time faster than traditional DBSCAN Additionally we know from Figure 7 the larger the database is the more effectively IPC-DBSCAN can enhance efficiency and outperform DBSCAN While this just illustrates the application of IPC-DBSCAN parameter changing on large volume data In this paper an inheritable clustering algorithm is proposed to be suitahle to parameter changed situation The experimental results show that IPC-DBSCAN can get the exactly same clustering result to that of rerunning DBSCAN and improve the efficiency tremendously This algorithm performs better in larger volume data Acknowledgements This paper is supported by the Ministry of Education of China under the grant 02038 and by the Tianjin Natural Science Foundation under grant 0036003 11 References 11 Ester M Kriegel H.-F Sander J Xu X 223A Density-Based Algorithm for Discovering Clusters in Large Spatial Databases with Noise\224 Proc 2nd Int Conf on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Portland 0R,1996 pp 226-231 2 1:D.W Cheung J Han V.T Ng and C.Y:Wong Maintenance of Discovered Association Rules in Large Databases An Incremental Update Technique In Proceedings of the 12th Intemational Conference on Data Engineering ICDE96 New-Orleans Louisiana March 1996 3 H Lee C.-R Lin and M.4 Chen 223Sliding-Window Filtering An Efficient Algorithm for Incremental Mining,\224 Roc of the ACM 10th International Conf on Information and Knowledge Management CIKM-Ol\November 5-10,2001 pp 263-270 4 Ester M Wittmam R 223Incremental Generalization for Mining in a Data Warehousing Environment\224 hc 6th Int Conf on Extending Datahase Technology Valencia Spain, 1998 in Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol 1377, Springer 1998 pp 135-152 5 Yucai Feng lianlin Feng 223Incremental Association rules update algorithm\222\222 Joumal of Software 6r Ester M Kriegel H.P Sander J Wimmer M Xu X Incremental Clustering for Mining in a Data Warehousing Environment\222\222 In Pmc 24th Int. Conf on Very Large Database VLDB\22298 1998 323-333 7 Ester M Kriegel H.P Sander J Wmmer M Xu X Incremental Clustering for Mining in a Data Warehousing Environment\224 In h 24th Int Conf on Very Large Database VLDB\22298 1998 323-333 1998,9\(4 


seven rule selection criteria is shown by boldface with underline for each data set. From Table 2, we can see that our simple heuristic rule extraction procedure is comparable to the \(24.5 algorithm for soma data sets \(e.g., Breast W Diabetes, etc results were obtained from the product criterion \(cs AVERACF Cl ASSlFICATlON RATES OF K7ZY RULES WEEN ON1.Y TWO FLIZZY RULES WERE EXTRACTED FOR EACII CI.ASS s with c-level 0.6 0.7 0.8 SL CA Dataset cs BrcastW 93.0 89.7 91.7 91.9 93.1 94.1 Diabctcs Glass Hcart C Hepatitis Iris Livcr Pagc Segment Sonar Vehicle Vowel Wine Y e a t Avcrnce 65.1 67.4 73.3 73.5 71.3 74,o 53.6 51.2 58.9 31.3 54.4 52.1 43.5 53.2 49.3 43.7 38.8 42.0 77.0 83,8 838 82.9 81.9 64.1 95.1 95.J 95.3 95.1 95.4 95.1 58.0 55.6 50.1 23.6 57.9 56.3 89.8 89.8 90.0 90.1 90.1 74.9 80.6 82.9 81.1 80.4 80.5 68.0 52.3 73.2 72.2 61.0 72.6 72.5 48.7 51.2 45.6 36.4 44.3 47.5 45.4 45.5 39.3 36.7 41.7 45.8 89.2 86.3 88.6 92.8 92.5 87.5 54.7 45.2 35.5 14.2 51.3 51.6 67.5 69.3 68.2 61.7 09.0 66.1 In Table 3, only a single fuzzy d e  was extracted for each 165 FUZZ-/E  2004 class. Due to the page limitation, we show a part of our experimental results. From the comparison between Table 2 and Table 3, we can see that our experimental results by a single rule for each class are still comparble to the C4.5 algorithm for some data sets \(i.e., Breast W, Diabetes, Heart C, Hepatics, Iris and Sonar is interesting to observe that the classification perkormance did not always monotonically increase with the number of fizzy rules e.g., see Breast W suggests that OUT experimental results may be improved by searching for good cornbinations of f i q  rules extracted by our heuristic procedure V. CONCLUDING REMARKS We examined the classification performance of a sinall number of simple fuzzy rules that were extracted from numerical data in a greedy manner based on heuristic rule selection criteria We did not intend to propose a new approach to the design of fiizzy nile-based classification systems. Our intention was to provide the lowest benchmark performance \(i.e.. lower bound of the perfomtance demonstrated that very simple fuzzy rule-based systems had high classification ability for some data sets \(e.g., see Table 3 where only a single rule was extracted for each class experiinental results can be referred as benchmarks in future studies on the tradeoff between the accuracy and the comprehensibility of fiwy rule-based classification systems Our idea of extracting hzzy rules using heuristic rule selection criteria can be also utilized as a pre-screening procedure for genetic rule selection. First, a pre-specified number of promising candidate rules are generated by heuristic 


number of promising candidate rules are generated by heuristic rule selection. Then optimal combinations of candidate rules are searched for by evolutionary optimization techniques. While we used the product criterion in our former study [SI, we can use other criteria for the pre-screening of candidate fuzzy rules REFERENCES I 2 L. 1. Kuncheva, Funv Class$;er lks ign,  Physica-Vcrlag, Hcidclbcrg 2000 V. Uebele, S. Abe, and M. -S. Lan  A neural-network-based fuzzy classificr  lEEE Trans. uti Svstems. Man, mid Cvbet7ieric.r. vol. 25, no 3] D. Nauck and R. Kruse  A ncuro-fimy method to lcam f i x y classilication rulcs from data  FKZV  set,^ mid .S?:vtc~rn.s. vol. 89, no. 3 0. Cordon. F. Hcrrcra. F. HolTmann. and L. Magdalcna, Genc,/I  c Fuz Svsfems: Ewlulionun Timing m r l  Lem-ning u/Fut=!; Knonledg!e Bu.se.s World Scientific. Singaporc. 2001 Y. Jin  Fuzzy inodeling of high-dimensional system: Complexity reduction and interpretability improvement  IEEE Trans. on Fuizy 2. pp. 353-361, Fcbruav 1995 pp. 277-288, hugtst, 1997 141 151 Sjwwis, vol. 8. no. 2, pp. 2 12-22.] . April 2000 H. Roubos and M. Sctncs  Conipact and transparent fuzzy models and classifiers through itcrativc complcxity rcductioit  E  Trans. on fk;?* ~v.c.fem.s, vol. 9. no. 4, pp. 5 16-524, August 2001 H. ishibuchi. T. Nakashima, and T. Murata  Three-objective genetics bascd machinc lcarniiig for linguistic rule cxtraction  fnfurtnafbn Sciences. vol. 136, no. 1-3. pp. 109-133, AoLwst 2001 8 ]  H. Ishibuchi and T. Yamamoto  Fuzzy rule selection by multi objectivc gcnctic local scarch algorithms and nile evaluation measures in data mining  Fuzqi; Sets m d  .?vstems, vol. 141, no. 1. pp. 59-88 January 2004 9] J .  Casillas. 0. Cordon, F. Hcrrcm. and L. Magdalena \(eds Interpreirrhili/v \(Ssues in Fzizzy Mideiing, Springcr, Berlin, 2003 IO] J. Casillas, 0. Cordon, F. Hemera, and L. Magdalena \(cds Iniprovetneit/ in Linguistic Fuzzy hkxleling, Springer, Berlin, 2003 1 I I ]  J. Lawry, J .  Shanahan, and A. Ralcscu \(e&amp Inte//igc~nce 2873: i\\fade//Crg with Wurds, Springer. Bcrlin, 2003 121 J. R. Qiunlan  lmprovcd use of continuous attributes in C4.5  Journal Uf!fArti$cial Intc4ligence Re,warch. vol. 4. pp. 77-90. March 1996 13] T. Elomaa and J. Rousu  General and efficient inilltisplitting of nunierical attributcs  Wachine Learning. vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 201 -244 Septcmbcr 1999 141 J.  R. Quinlan, C4.5: Pwgratns fi,r hlbchine Learning, Morgan Kaufmann, San Matco, 1993 IS] H. Ishibuchi. K. Nozaki, and H. Tanaka  Distributcd rcprcscntation of f w y  mlcs and its application to pattcm classification  Fzizzy Sef.s and Sysrems. vol. 52, no. I .  pp. 2 1-32. Novembcr 1992 161 J. van den Berg. U. Kaymak, and W. -M. van dcn Bcrgh  I  uzzy classification using probability based rule wcighting  Pruc. oj 11th IEEE Intwna/iunal Cui?krcncc on Fuz,y qistcwn, pp. 99 1-996, May 171 T. -P. Hong. C. -S. Kuo, illid S. C. Chi  Trddcuff b c h v m  computation timc and number of rulcs for fwzy mining from quantitafivc data  Inretvutioird Journal of Unccrfain&amp; Fuzzinas and Knou/edge-Ba.sed $i.stem.s, vol. 9, no. 5 pp. 587-604,O.ktobcr 2001 181 H. Ishibuchi. T. Yamamoto, and T. Nakashima  Fuzzy data mining Effect of fitzzy discretization  Proc. of I s /  /.WE Internationril Conjiwnce on Dritu Mining, pp. 241-248. San JOSC. Novcmbcr 29 Dcccmber 2,2001 I91 H. Ishibuchi and T. Yamamoto  Comparison of heuristic rulc weight spccification mcthods  Proc. vf I I / h  IEEE In/ema~ional Canference on E?iz;v Svsretm, pp. 908-9 13. May 12-1 7. 2002 20] A. Gonz~lcz and R. Pcrcz  SLAVE: A gcnctic lcaming system bascd on an itcrativc approach  EH? Trans. on Fuz  Sj:vfetns, vol. 7, no. 2 211 0. Cordon, M. 1. del Jesus, F. Hcrrcra, and M. Lozano  MOGUL: A mcthodology to obtain genclic fuzzy rule-bwcd syslcms under itcrativc rule lcaming approach  lntemntiunal Journal of InteNigenf S~:steni.s vol. 14, no. 1 I ,  pp. 1123-1 153, Novcmbcr 1999 


vol. 14, no. 1 I ,  pp. 1123-1 153, Novcmbcr 1999 1221 L. Castillo. A. Gonzalcz, and R. Pcrcz  Including a simplicity criterion in the selection of the best nile in a genetic funy learning algorithm   I  tc=v Sets urd $stenis. vol. 120, no. 2. pp. 309-32 1, June 200 I 23] L. Castro. J .  J .  Castro-Schcz, and J. M. Zirita  Use of a fi izq machiiic lcaming technique in thc knowledge acquisition proccss  Fuz? Sets undSjweni.s, vol. 123, no. 3, pp. 307-320. Novcniha 2001 24] R. Agraw-al. H. Mannila, R. Srikant, H. Toivoncn. and A. I. Vcrkamo  Fast discovcry of association rules  in U. M. Fayyad, G. Piatctsky Shapiro, P. Smyth. and R. Uthurusamy i d s Discwet?; tind Datu Mining, pp. 307-328, AAA1 Prcss. tvlcmlo Park 1996 6:I 7 l2-17,2002 pp. 176-191. April 1999 166 pre></body></html 


to achieve a high degree of skewness Text documents arranged in a chronological order do appear to have a high degree of skewness and benet the PMIHP algorithm 4 Conclusions The proposed Parallel Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning PMIHP algorithm is a parallel version of our Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning MIHP algorithm and it is effective for mining frequent itemsets in large text databases The Multipass approach reduces the required memory space at each processor by partitioning the frequent items and pro cessing each partition separately Thus the number of candidate itemsets to be processed is limited at each instance The Inverted Hashing and Pruning is used to prune the local and global candidate itemsets at each processing node and it also allows each processing node to determine the other peer processing nodes to poll in order to collect the local support counts of each global candidate itemset PMIHP distributes the workload to multiple processing nodes to reduce the total mining time without incurring much parallelization overhead The average number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller than the case of sequential mining while the time for the synchronization between processing nodes to exchange the count information for the global candidate itemsets is very small compared to the total execution time PMIHP is able to exploit the natural skewed distribution of words in text databases and demonstrates a superlinear speedup as the number of processing nodes increases It has a much better performance than well-known parallel Count Distribution algorithm 2 becaus e the a v erage number of candidate itemsets to be counted at each processing node is much smaller especially when the minimum support level is low Overall the performance of PMIHP is quite scalable even when the size of the text database is large and the minimum support level is low which is the case of high workload References  R  A gra w al and R  S r i kant   Fast Al gori t h ms for M i n i n g A ssociation Rules Proc of the 20th VLDB Conf  1994 pp 487499  R Agra w a l and J C S hafer  Paral l e l M i n i n g o f A ssoci at i o n Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 962969 3 M  S  C hen J Han and P  S  Y u   Dat a Mi ni ng An Overview from a Database Perspective IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 8 No 6 1996 pp 866883 4 D  W  C heung S  D L ee and Y  Xi ao  E f f ect of Dat a S k e w ness and Workload Balance in Parallel Data Mining IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 14 No 3 2002 pp 498514 5 S  M  C hung and J Y ang  A Par al l e l D i s t r i b ut i v e J oi n A l gorithm for Cube-Connected Multiprocessors IEEE Trans on Parallel and Distributed Systems  Vol 7 No 2 1996 pp 127137  R  F e l dman and H Hi rsh F i ndi ng Associ at i ons i n Col l ections of Text Machine Learning and Data Mining Methods and Applications  R Michalski I Bratko and M Kubat editors John Wiley and Sons 1998 pp 223240  R F e l dman I Dagen and H  H i rsh Mi ni ng T e xt Usi n g Keyword Distributions Journal of Intelligent Information Systems  Vol 10 No 3 1998 pp 281300  C  Fox L e x i cal Anal ysi s and S t opl i s t s   Inforamtion Retrieval Data Structures and Algorithms W.FrakesandR Baeza-Yates editors Prentice Hall 1992 pp 102130 9 M  G or don and S  Dumai s Usi ng L a t e nt S e mant i c I nde xi ng for Literature Based Discovery Journal of the Amer Soc of Info Science  Vol 49 No 8 1998 pp 674685  J Han J P e i  and Y  Y i n Mi n i n g F r equent Pat t e r n s w i t hout Candidate Generation Proc of ACM SIGMOD Intl Conf on Management of Data  2000 pp 112  J D Holt and S  M Chung Multipass Algorithms for Mining Association Rules in Text Databases Knowledge and Information Systems  Vol 3 No 2 Springer-Verlag 2001 pp 168183  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng Associ at i o n R ul es Using Inverted Hashing and Pruning Information Processing Letters  Vol 83 No 4 Elsevier Science 2002 pp 211220  J D Hol t and S  M C hung Mi ni ng associ at i o n R ul es i n Text Databases Using Multipass with Inverted Hashing and Pruning Proc of the 14th IEEE Intl Conf on Tools with Articial Intelligence  2002 pp 4956  J S  Park M S  C hen and P  S  Y u   Usi n g a Hash-B a sed Method with Transaction Trimming for Mining Association Rules IEEE Trans on Knowledge and Data Engineering  Vol 9 No 5 1997 pp 813825  G  S a l t on Automatic Text Processing The Transformation Analysis and Retrieval of Information by Computer  Addison-Wesley Publishing 1988  E  M V oorhees and D K Harmon edi t o rs The Fifth Text Retrieval Conference  National Institute of Standards and Technology 1997  O R  Z a i a ne and M L  Ant o i ne C l assi f y i n g T e x t D ocuments by Associating Terms with Text Categories Proc of the 13th Australian Database Conf  2002 0-7695-2132-0/04/$17.00 \(C Proceedings of the 18th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium \(IPDPS04 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


