CIMSA 2005  IEEE International Conference on Computational Intelligence for Measurement Systems and Applications Giardini Naxos, Italy, 20-22 July 2005 An Image Mining Approach for Clustering Traffic Behaviors B ased on Knowledge Discovery of Image Databases H. Fashandi, A.M. Eftekhari-Moghadam Image Mining Lab., Information Technology Applications Dept Iran Telecommunication Research Centre Email: {fashandi, eftekhari}@itrc.ac.ir Abstract  With this rapid increase in generating and collectin g images image mining and knowledge discovery attract  so much  attention In this paper we present a framework for extracting  knowledge from sequence of images in the form of natural 
 languages In another view point this process summarizes the  enormous visual information of sequence of images i nto some  simple and small sentences with the aim of automatic traffic  regulations checking Sequences of images have been  manually  extracted from a video of moving vehicles in cities The structure  of the system composed of Image Analysis and Knowledge  Processing modules. Image Analysis module works on raw images  and tries to extract a set of records consisting of spatial-temporal  characteristics of moving objects in the scene These records are passed to knowledge processing phase for further pr ocessing  information transformation and summarization Knowledge  
processing phase consists of two modules Trajectory Detection  and Fuzzy Rule base. A new similarity measure based on Longest  Common Subsequence LCS is proposed and used in trajectory  detection module This module tries to form traffic behavioral  classes.  In fuzzy Rule Base module, traffic regulations have been  modeled using fuzzy rules and fuzzy inference used for checking  normality/abnormality of the actions in the scene The output of  the system in the form of Natural Languages clearly shows what  happened in the scene  Keywords  Image mining Knowledge Discovery Similarity Measure for Trajectories Fuzzy Rule Base, Knowledge Base  I INTRODUCTION With this enormous speed in generating and collecti ng data there is an extreme need in extracting interesting and useful information The basic problem addressed by 
the knowledge discovery process is mapping low-level data into other forms that might be more compact more abstra ct or more useful    Knowle dge  disc overy  proces s as  it is  described in 1   2   c o m p o s e d  o f  S e l e c t i o n   P r e p r o cessing Transformation Data Mining Interpretation/Evaluation paces Although Data mining and Knowledge discovery are used interchangeably in many aspects, Data mining r efers to a particular step in this process Data mining is t he application of specific algorithms for extracting patterns from data. Image as a form of data can be discovered for new and unknown patterns and Image mining refers to proces s of extracting new patterns from set of images From previous works have been done on image mining 
 we will mention some recent ones In  inform ation is extracted from raw video using background estimation and subtraction followed by spatial clustering and multi object tracking. The resulting information which is called track set records the history of an objects state estimates positions and velocities\ and appearance over the frames in w hich the track was active This track set is mined to answer  user generated queries In another experience 4   a  s oftware model for context-aware perception of human activit y has been proposed The basic building blocks of the system are perceptual modules composed of a data transformati on component and control component Perceptual Associa 
tion Rules for image mining datasets have been used in these  rules are novel extension of traditional associatio n rules and used to distill the frequent perceptual events in l arge image datasets in order to discover interesting patterns. The process contains three steps first the image dataset is l abeled in a perceptually meaningful way using a visual thesaurus Second, the first and second order associations are tabulated in a scaleable data structure termed a spatial even t cubes Finally the higher order associations and rules are determined using an adaptation of the Apriori algorithms.  [6   addresses the special applications of data mining techniques in homeland defense. Massive surveillance video dat abase is mined automatically and the shots containing indepe ndently moving targets are retrieved The automatic indepen 
dent motion detection technique for compressed surveillance video based on Linear System Consistency has been presented. In  [7   t h e  s y s t e m  i s  p l a n n e d  t o  a n s w e r queries like  identifying all cars that park in a given non-pa rking area more than 10 minutes identifying all cars that sto p and let out a passenger, who then enters the building, and identifying all persons that get out of a car and then get into another car within 5 minutes In this paper the authors provid e a compiler to map high level queries in to a set of n ovel Petri net filters that utilize computer vision algorithms 
 to answer components of the queries In the above mentioned systems, most of the systems are based on image mining techniques with surveillance aims We have defined a system for automatic traffic surveillance which tries to examine traffic regulations for sequ ence of images This process transforms and summarizes the visual information to natural languages Based on this aim  a structure has been proposed and will be discussed in this paper. In section II, the aim of the system is expl ained. More 0-7803-9025-3/05/$20.00 2005 IEEE 203 


information about different parts of the system is explained in Sections III to VI. Section VII is dedicated to con clusion II OUR SYSTEM The aim of our system is the automatic checking normality/abnormality of traffic behaviors of drive rs and classification of their action to form a descriptive report. For example if the driver is overtaking from the left side the system will classify the action to over taking from  the left and then because it is taken from the left side, th is action will be classified into traffic regulations ignored The system is organized in two phases, image analysis and knowledge processing, as shown in Figure 1. In the following subsection, each phase will be discussed Fig. 1- The overall view of systems architecture  III IMAGE ANALYSIS PHASE In Image Analysis phase, the movie of a specific area is taken by a fixed camera and after shot selection ph ase which provides a sequence of images the moving objects of the scenario are tracked and classified into humans and vehicles The output of the image processing phase is a set of records of moving objects which consists of their spatial-t emporal characteristics and their identification Each reco rd has the form below R  Id  x 1 y 1 t 1  x n y n t n 1   Where Id is the unique identification for each moving object in the scene  x i  y i  t i  shows consecutive positions of the moving objects during the time IV KNOWLEDGE PROCESSING PHASE As mentioned before the final aim of knowledge processing phase is checking the traffic regulations for vehicles and preparing a descriptive report for the input scenario For this purpose this phase is subdivided in two major modules Trajectory detection and Fuzzy Scene  Descriptor The diagram of the knowledge processing phase has been shown in Figure 2 In trajectory detection  module the input trajectory of a moving object, classifies into specific classes Two kinds of output have been considered f or this module the determined class name of the input and descriptive sentences The former is passed directly to the fuzzy scene descriptor and the latter is assumed as one of the outputs of the system. In the fuzzy scene descripto r phase the traffic regulations is modeled by fuzzy rules and s tored in a knowledge based. The purpose of this phase is check ing the traffic regulation Fig. 2. Overall Structure of Knowledge Processing P hase  V TRAJECTORY DETECTION MODULE We have defined a new similarity measure for cluste ring trajectories of moving objects. In many methods, a trajectory of a moving object is modeled by sequence of its lo cations in the Euclidean space Different applications such as  traffic surveillance systems remote sensing animal mobility experiments, mobile phone usage, multiple attribute response curves in drug therapy, use this kind of data Among previous works done on similarity measures for trajectories, some of them will be mentioned here In  [8   a n  algorithm designed to find portions of the text T which are similar to the pattern P x-y positions have transformed to angle-arc length space Then partial matching probl em is solved by a line sweep algorithm in a scale-shift p lane and guarantees scale translation and rotation invariance with O  m 2 n 2 for sequences of length m and n Another approach presented a method based on Hidden Markov Model for  approximation and classification of vehicle trajectories Estimates of the speed and steering angle are obtai ned for each segment and the motion during the segment is a ssigned to one of the four classes ahead left right sto p A Hidden Markov Model for the motion of the car is constructed and the Viterbi algorithm is used to find the sequence of internal states for which the observed behavior of the vehicle has the highest probability 9    I n    1 0    1 1   n o n m e t r i c  similarity Descriptive Report Descriptive Report Spatial-Temporal CHARACTERIST ICS Trajectories Trajectory detection Fuzzy Scene Descriptor Knowledge Base Descriptive Report Image Sequence Set of Records Image Database Image Analysis Knowledge Processing Knowledge Base 204 


functions based on the Longest Common Subsequence LCS has been used Another approach proposed in 12   which defines a data model of trajectories as directed lines in a space and the similarity between trajectories is de fined as a Euclidean distance between directed discrete lines A rotation invariant distance measure for trajectories is prop osed in  Each tra jectory is  m a pped to rotation i nva riant  s p ace and then the distance between to trajectories is computed using Dynamic Time Rapping \(DTW We have proposed the new rotation invariant method based on LCS similarity We tried to define a measure whi ch is robust to Euclidean transforms A Longest common subsequence Some measures like Euclidean distance consider element to element correspondence which is not appl icable to all data types like the one defined for trajectories. We need a measure which allows partial matching Among differ ent measures Longest Common Subsequence has such capability This technique allows some elements rem ain unmatched but the order of matched elements should  be preserved More formally LCS of two sequences A  and B defined as Given two sequences A  a 1 a 2 a n   a n d  B  b 1 b 2 b m    F i n d  s u b s e q u e n c e s   a i1  a ik   a n d   b j1 b jk  where i l  i l+1 and j l  j l+1 such that a i1  b j1 and a i2  b j2 and a ik   b jk  with k  as large as possible LCS of A  a 1 a 2 a n  and B  b 1 b 2 b m   o b t a i n e d  b y              d      otherwise B Head A LCS B A Head LCS m n and b a if B Head A Head LCS empt y is B or A if B A LCS m n          max       1  0        H G H G H G H G G H 2 Where G is an integer, 0 H 1 and Head  A  a 1 a 2 an-1   The constant G controls how far in time we can go in order to match a given point from one trajectory to a point in another trajectory. The constant H is the matching threshold  [10   B The proposed similarity measure for trajectories It is difficult to design distance measures that are rotation invariant based on positional information To overcome this problem, we consider a trajectory as an array of consecutive lines, so we redefine trajectory T as follows T l  l 1 l 2 l n-1                                                    3  Where the starting and ending points of l i are x i y i   a n d   x i+1 y i+1  res pectively  For each successive pair of lines l i l i+1 we define the angle between them as the angle through which l i  must be rotated counter clockwise to make it coincide with l i+1  Figure 3 shows the process Fig.  3. Angles between constructive lines of the t rajectory We paraphrase the modeling of trajectory as bellow  T a   1   2   n-2                                                    4  The similarity between trajectories will be compute d based on sequence of angles Let T a1  and T a2 are two trajectories modeled based on sequence of angles the similarity between them for given H and G defined as   max         2 1  2 1 m n T T LCS T T S a a a a H G G H  5   Where n and m are lengths of T a1 and T a2 respectively C Clustering For clustering trajectories we use agglomerative hierarchical clustering 14   T h i s  m e t h o d  i s  a  b o t tom-up clustering method where clusters have sub-clusters, which in turn they have sub-clusters Agglomerative hierarchical clustering starts with every single object traject ory in a single cluster Then in each successive iteration it agglomerates the closest pair of clusters by satisf ying some similarity criteria until all of the data is assig ned in one cluster. Clusters i and j which maximize Obj will be merged    Cluster i T Cluster j T a a j i th a th a T T S n n Obj 1 2      1 2 1 G H 6 Where n i  n j are the numbers  of elements in cluster i and j  respectively S is similarity measure based on equation \(5 D Classification Classification is learning a function that maps classifies\ a data item into one of several predef ined classes  For ne w sam ple classification we need t o  defi ne  a cluster center and calculate the similarity of a new sample with the cluster centers We define the cluster center as a median of the cluster Median is defined as the clu ster 205 


element which has the most similarity with all of t he other elements in that cluster.  [10  E RESULTS Before classifying new samples we have to determin e classes; each class is obtained by clustering different types of vehicles trajectories As it is shown in Figure 4  11 behavioral classes have been considered, namely: ov ertaking from the left over taking from the right zigzag lane changing from left to right, lane changing from rig ht to left returning from right returning from left straight  forward turning to right turning to left and circling Bas ed on these classes, we prepared a database containing 220 samp les and some of them have been generated based on the other s by applying different Euclidean transformations Some samples of the database have been shown in Figure 5 Clustering procedure which is agglomerati ve clustering algorithm based on equation 6 is applied on the dataset As described before we consider only sequ ence of angles with H 3 and G 1 The stopping criterion of the algorithm is when the number of clusters is equal t o the specific number of clusters or the average similarity between two clusters is less than a threshold The centers of clusters which are medians of them are shown in Figure 6. For each of these cluster center s, we have considered a template sentence. After classificatio n of a new trajectory; this template is adapted in a way that some natural language sentences describe moving object behavior  Fig. 4. Different kinds of common trajectories of m oving  vehicle in the cities. \(a,b\Overtaking, \(c \Zigzag d,e\ Lane Changing, \(f,g\ Returning, \(h\Straight forward, \(i j\ Turning k\Circling Fig. 5. Some samples of our database Fig. 6. Row 1: possible places in the cities in which different  kinds of trajectories occur. Row 2,3: The centers medians of the clusters Figure 7 shows the process of describing the trajec tory of the moving object Because the measure is based on part ial matching in our descriptor phase in addition to th e cluster with maximum similarity, other ranks more than a th reshold have been considered too Fig. 7.  The process of describing the trajectory o f the moving object Some examples of input and the output of the system have been shown in Figure 8. As it is shown, the tr ajectory in the top-left side matched strongly with the cluste r with the name overtaking from the left and next ranks belo ng to straight line line changing and turning  The seco nd trajectory \(bottom-left\, only belongs to the clust er of straight forward driving To test the system a test set con taining 55 samples has been considered. 81% of the samples hav e been classified correctly VI FUZZY RULE BASE PHASE As mentioned before in this phase traffic regulat ions have been modeled by fuzzy rules. It is previously discussed that determined class name of the input record is p assed to this phase directly This name plays a role of an index and Describing Sentences New trajectory Classification based on LCS Descriptor 206 


narrows the search space for locating the proper rules for fuzzy inference engine. For instance, when the clas s name is overtaking only the rules relating to overtaking h ave been considered. The output of this phase is legality or illegality of the occurred action in the scene VII CONCLUSION Our framework has presented a new way for extractin g information from images After image analysis phase  which works on sequence of images the spatial temporal characteristics of moving objects passed to knowled ge processing phase to be processed more This system transforms sequence of images into some natural lan guages which describe the events of the scene The view point for describing the scene is traffic regulations and shape of trajectories of moving objects Fig. 8. Output of the Trajectory Detection Phase in the form  of  Natural Languages  REFERENCES 1 U   F a y y a d   G   P i a t e t s k y S h a p i r o   a n d  P   S m y t h    From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery in Databases AI Magazine 17\(3 pp 37-54  1996 2 V   D e v e d z i c    K n o w l e d g e  D i s c o v e r y  a n d  D a t a  M i n i n g in Databases Handbook of Software Engineering and Knowledge Engi neering Fundamentals World Scientific Publishing Co Sing apore  pp 615637 2001 3 M   C   B u r l    M i n i n g  P a t t e r n s  o f  A c t i v i t y  f r o m  V i deo Data Proceedings of the forth SIAM International Confere nce on Data Mining, Florida, USA 2004 4 J   L   C r o w l e y  a n d  P   R e i g n i e r    D y n a m i c  C o m p o s i t ion of Process Federations for Context Aware Perception of Human A ctivity International Conference on Integration of Knowledg e Intensive Multi Agent Systems, Cambridge MA. USA, 2003 5 J   T e s i c   S   N e w s a m  a n d  B   S   M a n j u n a t h    M i n i n g  Image Datasets Using Perceptual Association Rules Proc SIAM sixth workshop on Mining Scientific and Engineering Datasets in Conju nction with the 3 rd SIAM International Conference SDM San Fransisco  California  2003 6 Z   Z h a n g    M i n i n g  S u r v e i l l a n c e  V i d e o  f o r  I n d e p e n dent Motion Detection Proceeding of the IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, ICDM 2002, Japan, pp. 741-744 2002 7 N   M   G h a n e m   D   D o e r m a n n   L   D a v i s  a n d  D   D e M e n thon, Mining Tool for Surveillance Video SPIE 16th International Symposium on Electronic Imaging Storage and Retrival Methods and  Applications for Multimedia, pp. 259-270 2004 8 S c o t t  D   C o h e n    L e o n i d a s  J   G u i b a s    P a r t i a l  M a tching of Planar Polylines  Under Similarity Transformation In Eight Annual ACMSIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms 777-786, January 1997 9 R o b e r t o  F r a i l e   Stephen J Maybank  Vehicle Trajectory Approximation and Classification In Proceedings of the British Machine Vision Conference BMVC 832-840, 1998 10 M   V l a c h o s   G   K o l l i o s  a n d  D   G u n o p u l o s   D i s c o v ering Similar Multidimensional Trajectories Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Data Engineering\(ICDE 673-684, 2002 11 D   B u z a n   S   S c l a r o f f  a n d  G   K o l l i o s   E x t r a c t i o n and Clustering of Motion Trajectories in Video In Proceeding of 17th International Conference on Pattern Recognition \(ICPR 2\:521-524 2004 12 Y   Y a n a g i s a w a   J   A k a h a n i  a n d  T   S a t o h   S h a p e b ased Similarity Query for Trajectory of Mobile Objects  Mobile Data Management 63-77, 2003 13 M   V l a c h o s   D   G u n o p u l o s   a n d  G   D a s   R o t a t i o n  Invariant Distance Measures for Trajectories, In Proceedings of the Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and  Data Mining KDD 707-712, 2004 14 A n i l  K  J a i n   R i c h a r d  C  D u b e s   Algorithms for Clustering Data Prentice Hall.1988 15 U s a m a  F a y y a d   G r e g o r y  P i t a t e s k y S h a p i r o   P a d h a r ic Smyth From Data Mining to Knowledge Discovery in Databases AI magazine 17\(3\, pp: 37-54 1996 The driver is driving straight  The driver is over taking from the left side also it is matched partially to line changing and turning 207 


viii Introducing Uncertainty into Pattern Discovery in Temporal Event Sequences 299 X. Sun, M. E. Orlowska, and X. Li  Evolutionary Gabor Filter Optimi zation with Application to V ehicle Detection  307 Z. Sun, G. Bebis, and R. Miller Detecting Interesting Exceptions from Medical Test Data with Visual Summarization 315 E. Suzuki, T. Watanabe, H. Yokoi, and K. Takabayashi  Learning Bayesian Networks from Incomp lete Data Based on EMI Method 3 23 F. Tian, H. Zhang, and Y. Lu Combining Multip le Weak Clusterings  331 A. Topchy, A. K. Jain, and W. Punch  Visualization of Rules Similarity Using Multidimensional Scaling 339 S. Tsumoto and S. Hirano  TSP: Mining Top-K Closed Sequential Patterns  347 P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  Interactive Visualization and Naviga tion in Large Data Collections Using the Hyper bolic Space  355 J. Walter, J. Ontrup, D. Wessling, and H. Ritter Association Rule Mining in Peer-to-Peer Systems  363 R. Wolff and A. Schuster MPIS: Maximal-Profit Item Selecti on with Cross-S elling Considerations  371 R. C.-W. Wong, A. W.-C. Fu, and K. Wang Efficient Data Mining for Maxim al Frequent Subtrees  379 Y. Xiao, J.-F. Yao, Z. Li, and M. H. Dunham Mining Strong Affinity Association Patterns in Data Sets with Skewed Support Distribution  387 H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar On Precision and Recall of Mu lti-Attribute Data Extraction from Semistructured Sources 395 G. Yang, S. Mukherjee, and I. V. Ramakrishnan Mining Plans for Custome r-Class Transformation  403 Q. Yang and H. Cheng Segmenting Customer Transactions Using a Patte rn-Based Cluste ring Approach....................................................4 11 Y. Yang and B. Padmanabhan  A New Optimization Criterion for Gen eralized Discriminant Analysis on Undersampled Problems 419 J. Ye, R. Janardan, C. H Park, and H. Park 


ix Sentiment Analyzer: Extracting Sentiments about a Given Topic Using Natural Language Processing Techniques  427 J. Yi, T. Nasukawa, R. Bunescu, and W. Niblack Cost-Sensitive Learning by Cost-Proportionate Example Weighting  435 B. Zadrozny, J. Langford, and N. Abe  CBC: Clustering Based Text Classification Requiri ng Minimal Labeled Data 443 H.-J. Zeng, X.-H. Wang, Z. Chen, H. Lu, and W.-Y. Ma Regression Clustering  451 B. Zhang  Model-Based Clustering with Soft Balancing  459 S. Zhong and J. Ghosh  Research-Track Short Papers Integrating Fuzzin ess into OLAP for Multidimen sional Fuzzy Association Rules Mi ning  469 R. Alhajj and M. Kaya  Analyzing High-Dimensional Data by Subs pace Validity  473 A. Amir, R. Kashi, N. S. Netanyahu, D. Keim, and M. Wawryniuk Objective and Subjective Algorithms for Grouping Association Rules  477 A. An, S. Khan, and X. Huang Efficient Subsequence Matching in Ti me Series Databases under Time and Amplitude Transformations  481 T. Argyros and C. Ermopoulos A Fast Algorithm for Computing Hypergraph Transversals and Its Application in Mining Emerging Patterns 485 J. Bailey, T. Manoukian and K. Ramamohanarao  Mining Relevant Text from Unlabelled Docu ments 489 D. Barbar, C. Domeni coni, and N. Kang  A User-Driven and Quality-Oriented Visualization fo r Mining Associ ation Ru les  493 J. Blanchard, F. Guillet, and H. Briand Towards Simple, Easy-to-U nderstand, yet Ac curate Classifiers  497 D. Caragea, D. Cook, and V. Honavar  Validating and Refining Clusters via Visual Rendering 501 K. Chen and L. Liu Icon-Based Visualization of Large High-Dimensional Datasets  505 P. Chen, C. Hu, W. Ding, H. Lynn, and Y. Simon 


x Indexing and Mining Free Trees 509 Y. Chi, Y. Yang, and R. R. Muntz  T-Trees, Vertical Partitioning and Distributed Asso ciation Rule Mining  513 F. Coenen, P. Leng and S. Ahmed Information Theoretic Clustering of Sparse Co-Occurrence Data 517 I. S. Dhillon and Y. Guan  Links between Kleinbergs Hubs an d Authorities, Corresponden ce Analysis and Markov Chains 521 F. Fouss, M. Saerens, and J.-M. Renders  Fast PNN-Based Clustering Using K-Nearest Neighbor Graph  525 P. Frnti, O. Virmajoki, and V. Hautamki  The Rough Set Approach to Association Rule Mining 529 J. W. Guan, D. A. Bell, and D. Y. Liu Comparing Pure Parallel En semble Creation Techniques against Bagging  533 L. O. Hall, K. W. Bowyer, R. E. Banfield, D. Bhadoria, W. P. Kegelmeyer and S. Eschrich Improving Home Automation by Discov ering Regularly Occurring Device Usage Patterns  537 E. O. Heierman III and D. J. Cook  Ontologies Improve Text Document Clustering 541 A. Hotho, S. Staab, and G. Stumme The Hybrid Poisson Aspect Model for Personalized Shopping Recommendation....................................................545 C.-N. Hsu, H.-H. Chung, and H.-S. Huang  Efficient Mining of Frequent Subgraphs in the Presence of Isomorphism  549 J. Huan, W. Wang, and J. Prins Comparing Naive Bayes, Decision Trees, and SVM with AUC and Accuracy 553 J. Huang, J. Lu, and C. X. Ling  SVM Based Models for Predicting Foreign Currency Exchange Rates  557 J. Kamruzzaman, R. A.  Sarker, and I. Ahmad Facilitating Fuzzy Association Rules Mining by Using Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithms for Au tomated Clustering 561 M. Kaya and R. Alhajj  PixelMaps: A New Visual Da ta Mining Approach for Analyzing Large Spatial Data Sets 565 D. A. Keim, C. Panse, M. Sips, and S. C. North 


xi Effectiveness of Information Extraction, Multi-Relati onal, and Semi-Supervised Learning for Predicting Functional Properties of Genes  569 M.-A. Krogel and T. Scheffer Tractable Group Detection on Large Link Data Sets 573 J. Kubica, A. Moore, and J. Schneider  Tree-Structured Partitioning Based on Splitting Histograms of Distances 577 L. J. Latecki, R. Venugopal, M. Sobel, and S. Horvath CoMine: Efficient Mining of Correlated Patterns  581 Y.-K. Lee, W.-Y. Kim, Y. D. Cai, and J. Han  Ensembles of Cascading Trees  585 J. Li and H. Liu  Using Discriminant An alysis for Multi-Class Classification 589 T. Li, S. Zhu, and M. Ogihara  Interpretations of Association Rules by Granular Computing 593 Y. Li and N. Zhong Algorithms for Spatial Outlier De tection 597 C.-T. Lu, D. Chen, and Y. Kou Learning Rules for Anomaly Detec tion of Hostile Network Traffic  601 M. V. Mahoney and P. K. Chan An Algorithm for the Exact Computation of the Centroid of Higher Dimensional Polyhedra and Its Application to Kernel Machines  605 F. Maire  Simple Estimators for Relational Baye sian Classifiers 609 J. Neville, D. Jensen, and B. Gallagher  Protecting Sensitive Knowledge by Data Sanitiza tion  613 S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Zaane  Mining Frequent Itemsets in Distributed and Dynamic Databases 617 M. E. Otey, C. Wang, S. Parthasarathy, A. Veloso, and W. Meira, Jr Structure Search and S tability Enhancement of Bayesian Networks 621 H. Peng and C. Ding Privacy-Preserving Collaborativ e Filtering Using Random ized Perturbation Techniques 625 H. Polat and W. Du  Semantic Role Parsing: Adding Semantic Str ucture to Unstr uctured Text  629 S. Pradhan, K. Hacioglu, W. Ward, J. H. Martin, and D. Jurafsky 


xii Mining Semantic Networks for Knowledge Discovery 633 K. Rajaraman and A.-H. Tan Impact Studies and Sensitivity An alysis in Medical Data Mining with ROC-Based Genetic Learning  637 M. Sebag, J. Az, and N. Lucas K-D Decision Tree: An Accelerated and Memory Efficient Nearest Neighbor Classifier 641 T. Shibata, T. Kato, and T. Wada Mining the Web to Discover the Meanings of an Ambiguous Word  645 R. Tamir and R. Rapp A Hybrid Data-Mining Approach in Genomics and Text Structures 649 H.-N. Teodorescu and L. I. Fira Model Stability: A Key Factor in Determining Whether an Algorithm Produces an Optimal Model fr om a Matching Distribution  653 K. M. Ting and R. J. Y. Quek  Enhancing Techniques for Effi cient Topic Hierarchy Integration 657 J.-J. Tsay, C.-F. Chang, H.-Y. Chen, and C.-H. Lin Pattern Discovery Based on Rule Induction and Taxonomy Generation 661 S. Tsumoto and S. Hirano Active Sampling for Feature Selection 665 S. Veeramachaneni and P. Avesani Combining the Web Content and Usage Mining to Understand the Visitor Behavior in a Web Site  669 J. Velsquez, H. Yasuda, and T. Aoki  Class Decomposition via Clustering A New Framework for Low-Variance Classifiers  673 R. Vilalta, M.-K. Achari, and C. F. Eick Bootstrapping Rule Induction 677 L. R. Waitman, D. H. Fisher, and P. H. King Center-Based Indexing for Nearest Neighbors Search  681 A. Wojna Postprocessing Decision Trees to Ex tract Actionable Knowledge  685 Q. Yang, J. Yin, C. X. Ling, and T. Chen  Frequent-Pattern Based Iter ative Projected Clustering 689 M. L. Yiu and N. Mamoulis General MC: Estimating Boundary of Positive Class from Small Positiv e Data  693 H. Yu 


xiii  Clustering Item Data Sets with Associati on-Taxonomy Similarity 697 C.-H. Yun, K.-T. Chuang, and M.-S. Chen  Dimensionality Reduction Using Kernel Pool ed Local Discrimina nt Information 7 01 P. Zhang, J. Peng, and C. Domeniconi  A Feature Selection Fra mework for Text Filtering 705 Z. Zheng, R. Srihari, and S. Srihari A K-NN Associated Fuzzy Evidential Reas oning Classifier with Adaptive Neighbor Selection  709 H. Zhu and O. Basir Industry-Track Papers Findings from a Practical Project Concerning Web Usage Mining 715 F. Dellmann, H. Wulff, and S. Schmitz Predicting Distribution of a New Fore st Disease Using One-Class SVMs 719 Q. Guo, M. Kelly, and C. Graham  Understanding Helicoverpa armigera Pest Population Dynamics Related to Chickpea Crop Using Ne ural Networks  723 R. Gupta, B. V. L. Narayana, P Krishna Reddy, G. V. Ranga Rao C. L. L.  Gowda, Y. V. R. Reddy, and G. Rama Murthy Text Mining for a Clear Picture of Def ect Reports: A Praxis Report  727 J. Kreyss, S. Selvaggio, M. White, and Z. Zakharian Mining Production Data with Neural Network and CART  731 M. Li, S. Feng, I. K. Sethi, J. Luciow, and K. Wagner  Inference of Protein-Protein Interactions by Unlikely Profile Pair 735 B.-H. Park, G. Ostrouchov, G.-X. Yu, A. Geist, A. Gorin, and N. F. Samatova Regulatory Element Discovery Using Tree-Struct ured M odels  739 T. M. Phuong, D. Lee, and K. H. Lee  Applying Noise Handling Techniques to Genomic Data: A Case Study 743 C. M. Teng Detecting Patterns of Change Using Enhanced Parallel Coordinates Visualization 747 K. Zhao, B. Liu, T. M. Tirpak, and A. Schaller Author Index  754 


Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 7 Conclusion and Future Work References frontier  pages 487\320499 Morgan Kaufmann 1994  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2003 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi03  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2004 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi04  J  Han J  Pei and Y  Y in Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation In Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB VLDB Journal Very Large Data Bases Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery An International Journal Lecture Notes in Computer Science  2004  J W ang and G Karypis Harmon y Ef 336ciently mining the best rules for classi\336cation In The Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD\32504 Symposium on Principles of Database Systems 2 b Average time taken per frequent itemset shown on two scales T10I4D100K is increased and hence the number of frequent items decreases Figure 5\(c also shows that the maximum frontier size is very small Finally we reiterate that we can avoid using the pre\336x tree and sequence map so the only space required are the itemvectors and the minSup SIAM International Conference on Data Mining required drops quite quickly as ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues in Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intl Conference on Management of Data Figure 5 Results  8\(3\3204 2000  F  P an G C ong A T ung J Y ang and M Zaki Carpenter Finding closed patterns in long biological datasets In  2121:236 2001  M Steinbach P N T an H Xiong and V  K umar  Generalizing the notion of support In a Runtime ratios T10I4D100K c Number of Itemvectors needed and maximum frontier size T10I4D100K  pages 1\32012 ACM Press May 2000  F  K orn A Labrinidis Y  K otidis and C F aloutsos Quanti\336able data mining using ratio rules  Morgan Kaufmann 2003  J Pei J Han and L Lakshmanan Pushing convertible constraints in frequent itemset mining We showed interesting consequences of viewing transaction data as itemvectors in transactionspace and developed a framework for operating on itemvectors This abstraction gives great 337exibility in the measures used and opens up the potential for useful transformations on the data Our future work will focus on 336nding useful geometric measures and transformations for itemset mining One problem is to 336nd a way to use SVD prior to mining for itemsets larger than  pages 205\320215 2005  We also presented GLIMIT a novel algorithm that uses our framework and signi\336cantly departs from existing algorithms GLIMIT mines itemsets in one pass without candidate generation in linear space and time linear in the number of interesting itemsets Experiments showed that it beats FP-Growth above small support thresholds Most importantly it allows the use of transformations on the data that were previously impossible  That is the space required is truly linear  D Achlioptas Database-friendly random projections In  2001  R Agra w al and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In  8:227\320252 May 2004  J Pei J Han and R Mao CLOSET An ef 336cient algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets In  pages 21\32030 2000  S Shekhar and Y  Huang Disco v ering spatial colocation patterns A summary of results 


mator from sensor 1 also shown 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper derives a Bayesian procedure for track association that can solve a large scale distributed tracking problem where many sensors track many targets. When noninformative prior of the target state is assumed, the single target test becomes a chi-square test and it can be extended to the multiple target case by solving a multidimensional assignment problem. With the noninformative prior assumption, the optimal track fusion algorithm can be a biased one where the regularized estimate has smaller mean square estimation error. A regularized track fusion algorithm was presented which modifies the optimal linear unbiased fusion rule by a less-than-unity scalar. Simulation results indicate the effectiveness of the proposed track association and fusion algorithm through a three-sensor two-target tracking scenario 7. REFERENCES 1] Y. Bar-Shalom and W. D. Blair \(editors Tracking: Applications and Advances, vol. III, Artech House, 2000 2] Y. Bar-Shalom and H. Chen  Multisensor Track-to-Track Association for Tracks with Dependent Errors  Proc. IEEE Conf. on Decision and Control, Atlantis, Bahamas, Dec. 2004 3] Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li, Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Principles and Techniques, YBS Publishing, 1995 4] Y. Bar-Shalom, X. R. Li and T. Kirubarajan, Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation: Algorithms and Software for Information Extraction, Wiley, 2001 5] S. Blackman, and R. Popoli  Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems  Artech House, 1999 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 1 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 0 2 


2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 2 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion Fig. 7. Comparison of the NEES for centralized IMM estimator \(configuration \(i estimators \(configuration \(ii sensor 1 also shown 6] H. Chen, T. Kirubarajan, and Y. Bar-Shalom  Performance Limits of Track-to-Track Fusion vs. Centralized Estimation: Theory and Application  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems 39\(2  400, April 2003 7] H. Chen, K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan and Y. Bar-Shalom  Data Association with Possibly Unresolved Measurements Using Linear Programming  Proc. 5th ONR/GTRI Workshop on Target Tracking Newport, RI, June 2002 8] Y. Eldar, and A. V. Oppenheim  Covariance Shaping Least-Square Estimation  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 51\(3 pp. 686-697 9] Y. Eldar  Minimum Variance in Biased Estimation: Bounds and Asymptotically Optimal Estimators  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(7 10] Y. Eldar, A. Ben-Tal, and A. Nemirovski  Linear Minimax Regret Estimation of Deterministic Parameters with Bounded Data Uncertainties  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(8 Aug. 2004 11] S. Kay  Conditional Model Order Estimation  IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 49\(9 12] X. R. Li, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, and C. Han  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part I: Unified Fusion Rules  IEEE Trans. Information Theory, 49\(9  2208, Sept. 2003 13] X. R. Li  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part VII: Dynamic Systems  in Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Information Fusion, Cairns, Australia, pp. 455-462, July 2003 14] X. D. Lin, Y. Bar-Shalom and T. Kirubarajan  Multisensor Bias Estimation Using Local Tracks without A Priori Association  Proc SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 


SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 5204 15] R. Popp, K. R. Pattipati, and Y. Bar-Shalom  An M-best Multidimensional Data Association Algorithm for Multisensor Multitarget Tracking  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems, 37\(1 pp. 22-39, January 2001 pre></body></html 


20 0  50  100  150  200  250  300 Pe rc en ta ge o f a dd iti on al tr af fic Cache size 200 clients using CMIP 200 clients using UIR c Figure 6. The percentage of additional traf?c the cache at every clock tick. A similar scheme has been proposed in [13], which uses fv, a function of the access rate of the data item only, to evaluate the value of each data item i that becomes available to the client on the channel If there exists a data item j in the client  s cache such that fv\(i j replaced with i A prefetch scheme based on the cache locality, called UIR scheme, was proposed in [7]. It assumes that a client has a large chance to access the invalidated cache items in the near future. It proposes to prefetch these data items if it is possible to increase the cache hit ratio. In [6], Cao improves the UIR scheme by reducing some unnecessary prefetches based on the prefetch access ratio \(PAR scheme, the client records how many times a cached data item has been accessed and prefetched, respectively. It then calculates the PAR, which is the number of prefetches divided by the number of accesses, for each data item. If the PAR is less than one, it means that the data item has been accessed a number of times and hence the prefetching is useful. The clients can mark data items as non-prefetching when PAR &gt; b, where b is a system tuning factor. The scheme proposes to change the value of b dynamically according to power consumption. This can make the prefetch scheme adaptable, but no clear methodology as to how and when b should be changed. Yin et al. [19] proposed a power-aware prefetch scheme, called value-based adaptive prefetch \(VAP the number of prefetches based on the current energy level to prolong the system running time. The VAP scheme de?nes a value function which can optimize the prefetch cost to achieve better performance These existing schemes have ignored the following characteristics of a mobile environment: \(1 query some data items frequently, \(2 during a period of time are related to each other, \(3 miss is not a isolated events; a cache miss is often followed by a series of cache misses, \(4 eral requests in one uplink request consumes little additional bandwidth but reduces the number of future uplink requests. In this paper, we addressed these issues using a cache-miss-initiated prefetch scheme, which is based on association rule mining technique. Association rule mining is a widely used technique in ?nding the relationships among data items. The problem of ?nding association rules among items is clearly de?ned by Agrawal et al. in [5]. However in the mobile environment, one cannot apply the existing association rule mining algorithm [4] directly because it is too complex and expensive to use This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in 


This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in twofold. First, we are interested in rules with only one data item in the antecedent and several data items in the consequent. Our motivation is to prefetch several data items which are highly related to the cache-miss data item within Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE the cache-miss initiated uplink request. We want to generate rules where the antecedent is one data item, but the cache-missed data item and the consequent is a series of data items, which are highly related to the antecedent. If we have such rules, we can easily ?nd the data items which should also be piggybacked in the uplink request. Second in mobile environment, the client  s computation and power resources are limited. Thus, the rule-mining process should not be too complex and resource expensive. It should not take a long time to mine the rules. It should not have high computation overhead. However, most of the association rule mining algorithms [4, 5] have high computation requirements to generate such rules 5. Conclusions Client-side prefetching technique can be used to improve system performance in mobile environments. However, prefetching also consumes a large amount of system resources such as computation power and energy. Thus, it is very important to only prefetch the right data. In this paper, we proposed a cache-miss-initiated prefetch \(CMIP scheme to help the mobile clients prefetch the right data The CMIP scheme relies on two prefetch sets: the alwaysprefetch set and the miss-prefetch set. Novel association rule based algorithms were proposed to construct these prefetch sets. When a cache miss happens, instead of sending an uplink request to only ask for the cache-missed data item, the client requests several items, which are within the miss-prefetch set, to reduce future cache misses. Detailed experimental results veri?ed that the CMIP scheme can greatly improve the system performance in terms of increased cache hit ratio, reduced uplink requests and negligible additional traf?c References 1] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Prefetching From a Broadcast Disk. Proc. Int  l Conf. on Data Eng., pages 276  285, Feb. 1996 2] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Balancing Push and Pull for Data Broadcast. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 183  194, May 1997 3] S. Acharya, R. Alonso, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Broadcast disks: Data Management for Asymmetric Communication Environments. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 199  210 May 1995 4] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In J. B. Bocca, M. Jarke, and C. Zaniolo editors, Proc. 20th Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases, VLDB pages 487  499. Morgan Kaufmann, 12  15 1994 5] R. Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, and Arun Swami. Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207  216, Washington, D.C May 1993 6] G. Cao. Proactive Power-Aware Cache Management for Mobile Computing Systems. IEEE Transactions on Computers, 51\(6  621, June 2002 7] G. Cao. A Scalable Low-Latency Cache Invalidation Strategy for Mobile Environments. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 15\(5 ber/October 2003 \(A preliminary version appeared in ACM MobiCom  00 8] K. Chinen and S. Yamaguchi. An Interactive Prefetching Proxy Server for Improvement of WWW Latency. In Proc INET 97, June 1997 9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for docu 


9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for document transfer: A new approach for reducing web latency. In Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, pages 854  863, 2000 10] R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava. Data preparation for mining world wide web browsing patterns. Knowledge and Information Systems, 1\(1  32, 1999 11] C. R. Cunha, Azer Bestavros, and Mark E. Crovella. Characteristics of WWW Client Based Traces. Technical Report TR-95-010, Boston University, CS Dept, Boston, MA 02215, July 1995 12] D. Duchamp. Prefetching hyperlinks. In USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems \(USITS  99 1999 13] V. Grassi. Prefetching Policies for Energy Saving and Latency Reduction in a Wireless Broadcast Data Delivery System. In ACM MSWIM 2000, Boston MA, 2000 14] S. Hameed and N. Vaidya. Ef?cient Algorithms for Scheduling Data Broadcast. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  193, May 1999 15] Q. Hu and D. Lee. Cache Algorithms based on Adaptive Invalidation Reports for Mobile Environments. Cluster Computing, pages 39  48, Feb. 1998 16] Z. Jiang and L. Kleinrock. An Adaptive Network Prefetch Scheme. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 16\(3  11, April 1998 17] V. Padmanabhan and J. Mogul. Using Predictive Prefetching to Improve World Wide Web Latency. Computer Communication Review, pages 22  36, July 1996 18] N. Vaidya and S. Hameed. Scheduling Data Broadcast in Asymmetric Communication Environments. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  182, May 1999 19] L. Yin, G. Cao, C. Das, and A. Ashraf. Power-Aware Prefetch in Mobile Environments. IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems \(ICDCS 2002 Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


um be r o f C he ck ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 6. The Number of Checked Patterns on the Pumsb Data Set 10 100 1000 10000 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 R un T im e s ec  Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 7. The RunTime Comparison on the Pumsb Data Set The runtime comparison of MHP and MAFIA on the Pumsb* data set is shown in Figure 5. In the ?gure, we can observe that the runtime of MHP can be signi?cantly reduced with the increase of h-con?dence thresholds. Also the runtime of MHP can be several orders of magnitude less than that of MAFIA even if the h-con?dence threshold is as low as 0.3. The reason is that the number of checked patterns of MHP is sign?cantly smaller than that of MAFIA Similar results are also obtained from the pumsb data set as shown in Figure 6 and Figure 7. For the pumsb data set the number of checked patterns of MHP is much smaller 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





