Prediction of Outer Membrane Proteins by Support Vector Machines Using Combinations of Gapped Amino Acid Pair Compositions Ssu-Hua Huang 1 Ru-Sheng Liu 1 Chien-Yu Chen 1,2 Ya-Ting Chao 1,2  Shu-Yuan Chen 1 1 Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, and 2 Graduate School of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan County 320, Taiwan, R.O.C s927415@mail.yzu.edu.tw, {csrobinl, cychen, ytchao, cschen}@saturn.yzu.edu.tw Abstract Discriminating outer membrane proteins from proteins with other subcellular localizations and with other folding classes are both important to predict further their func 
tions and structures. In this paper, we propose a method for discriminating outer membrane proteins from other proteins by Support Vector Machines using combinations of gapped amino acid pai r compositions. Using 5-fold cross-validation, the method achieves 95% precision and 92% recall on the dataset of proteins with well-annotated subcellular localizations, consisting of 471 outer membrane proteins and 1,120 other proteins. When applied on another dataset of 377 outer membrane proteins and 674 globular proteins belonging to four typical structural classes, the method reaches 96% precision and recall and correctly excludes 98% of the globular proteins. Our 
method outperforms the OM classifier of PSORTb v.2.0 and a method based on dipeptide composition Keywords outer membrane protein prediction barrel membrane proteins; Support Vector Machine; gapped amino acid pair composition 1. Introduction Outer membrane proteins \(OMPs\ are resident at the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacterial cell, mitochondria and chloroplast. They are responsible for various important biological functions and generally form themselves into barrel structures. OMPs consist of a special class of proteins due to their distinct subcellular localiza 
tion \(outer membrane\d structures. Discriminating them from other proteins helps in predicting further their functions and structures Several classification technologies have been applied to predict OMPs  or barrel membrane proteins \(proteins ______________________________________________ This work was partially supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan, R.O.C., under Grants NSC-94-2745-E-155-008-URD that have barrel structures\hey include Hidden 
Markov Model \(HMM Neu ral Net w o r k 4  Support Vector Machine \(SVM s o ciation ru le   d s t atis tical m e t h ods 7, 8  HMMbas ed m e t h ods  predict barrel membrane proteins by modeling the prototype of barrel structures. It performs worse when allglobular or all soluble proteins are given to it to predict Liu bin ed a lin e a r Neu ral Net w o r k clas s i f i er  with predicted secondary structures and obtained an improvement on excluding all soluble proteins. However the performance depends on the quality of secondary 
structure prediction. She et al r op os ed th ree m e t h ods  Two methods based on association rules and one based on SVM. Their results showed that the latter outperformed the former two. Gromiha and Suwa eloped a s t ati s tical method based on the amino acid composition for discriminating OMPs from other proteins. An improved statistical method based on the weighted dipeptide composition was proposed later by Gromih d th e y  obtained better results Various features were used to predict OMPs. HMMbased methods [1, 2, 3 w e re bas ed on t h e i n f o r m at i o n of  transmembrane regions of known structures. The Neural 
Network classifi a s bas ed on th e a m i n o acid com position difference between the transmembrane regions of 12 barrel OMPs and the strands of 79 all soluble proteins. Zhai ed th e occu rren ce s o f N terminal targeting sequences and the information of secondary structures, hydropathy and amphipathicity for prediction. Berven et al. [10 r o pos ed a m e th od bas ed on a  C-terminal pattern of 12 known structural OMPs and on an integral barrel score based on the amino acid distribution in a 10-residue sliding window. These features 
described above were derived from protein sequences with known structures. However, at present, there are rather few OMPs or barrel membrane proteins with known structures Several method used features derived only from sequences were also proposed. Gromiha et s ed t h e amino acid composition difference between OMPs and globular proteins. The dipeptide composition was used Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


later in Sh e et al 5 ex tr acted f r equ en t s u bs equ e n ces  from OMPs as association rules for prediction. Furthermore, they represented protein sequence as occurrences of frequent subsequences for SVM classification. Their results outperform the sequence-profile-based HMM meth dy et al. [6] f u rt h e r in trodu ced t h e f r e quent-subsequence-based SVM method into the PSORTb v.2.0 program for protein subcellular localization \(SCL prediction. They constructed 9 SVM classifiers based on frequent subsequences wherein each one predicts a specific SCL of Gram-positive or Gram-negative bacteria Previous works demonstrated that amino acid composition and amino acid pair compositions both provide useful information for SCL prediction. Hua and Sun  proposed a SVM approach based on amino acid composition. Park and Kanehisaf rted a c o m p aris o n of  performances of different compositions on amino acids amino acid pairs and one to three gapped amino acid pairs Gu rth er co m b ined dif f e re n t a m i n o acid pair compositions \(called residue-couple model in their paper Each protein was represented as a vector consisting of these compositions for SVM classification. They showed that their method outperforms the method of Hua and Sun 11 In this paper, we propose a method for OMP prediction by Support Vector Machines using the combinations of gapped amino acid pair compositions. Two datasets were used. One dataset consists of protein sequences with experimentally verified SCLs. It was obtained from PSORTdb v.2.0 [14 U s i ng 5 fo l d c r o ssva l i d a t i o n t h e  performance achieves a precision of 95% with a recall of 92%. The other dataset consists of OMPs and globular proteins belonging to four typical structural classes. The performance achieves as high as 96% in precision and recall while up to 98% globular proteins were correctly excluded \(also named the recall of globular proteins, defined in Section 3.1\ompared to the method based on dipeptide composition [8 e resu l t s h o w s an in crea se o f  18% in excluding globular proteins. Experimental results show that our method outperforms the frequentsubsequence-based SVM meth an d th e dipe ptidecomposition-based statistical meth 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Datasets In this section, we describe two datasets. Each of them is represented as two classes for constructing a binary predictor to discriminate OMPs from other proteins 2.1.1. Dataset 1 PSORTb v.2.0 program t a i n s 9  SVM classifiers for protein SCL prediction. Each classifier predicts a specific SCL. One of the 9 classifiers is used for predicting OMPs. The dataset which was applied to the classifier contains proteins annotated as having a single SCL or dual SCLs of Gram-negative bacteria. \(A protein annotated as dual SCLs means that this protein can exist at two SCLs.\he dataset was represented as two classes by Gardy et al a m e l y th e OM clas s  consisting of OMPs\nd the NOM \(non-OM\ass \(consisting of other proteins\n T h e s a m e data s et a n d class representation are also used in this paper. We denote the dataset as dataset 1. The composition of dataset 1 and its class representation are listed at Table 1. There are 471 sequences belonging to OM class and 1,120 sequences belonging to NOM class. SCLs of protein sequences in the dataset are all experimentally verified. The dataset is available from PSORTdb v.2.0 online at http://www.psort org/datas Table 1. Composition of dataset 1 represented as two classes The meanings of the below abbreviations of SCL sites are: OM, outer membrane; P, periplasmic; EC extracellular; C, cytoplasmic; CM, cytoplasmic membrane A è/ê indicates the dual SCLs Class SCL The number of sequences OM 391 P/OM 2 OM OM/EC 78 C 278 CM 309 P 276 EC 190 C/CM 16 NOM CM/P 51 2.1.2. Dataset 2 Gromiha eloped a  method for discriminating OMPs from globular proteins belonging to four typical structural classes. The dataset they used consists of 377 OMPs and 674 globular proteins with known structures, including 155 all proteins, 156 all proteins, 184  proteins, and 179  proteins available online at http://www.cbrc.jp/~gromiha/omp dataset.html\e denote it as dataset 2 and use it to evaluate our method for the same purpose as Gromiha et al. In this paper, the set of the 377 OMPs is referred to as OM class and the set of the 674 globular proteins as NOM class 2.2. Calculation of k gapped amino acid pair composition In this section, we define the k gapped amino acid pair composition based on the residue-couple model [13 A protein sequence is represented as a series of one-letter codes R 1 R 2 R 3 R N  Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


where R n denotes the amino acid in location n  n 1, 2 3 N and N is the sequence length\he occurrence frequency of an amino acid pair along the sequence is defined as the following expression   1  1 1 1 1           k n n O k N F k N n j i k j i  where k N 2 O i,j  n  n  k 1\ = 1 if the amino acid in location n is i and the one in location n  k 1 is j otherwise O i  j  n  n  k 1\The values of i and j range from 1 to 20, representing the 20 different amino acids The k gapped amino acid pair composition G k is then defined as G k      20  1 3  1 2  1 1  1 k k k k F F F F     20  2 3  2 2  2 1  2 k k k k F F F F  k k k k F F F F 20  20 3  20 2  20 1  20     where k N 2. Therefore, a k gapped amino acid pair composition is a 400-dimensional vector. In this paper G 0 is called non-gapped amino acid pair composition G 1 is called one-gapped amino acid pair composition G 2 is called two-gapped amino acid pair composition, and so forth 2.3. Combination of k gapped amino acid pair compositions As described above, a series of k gapped amino acid pair compositions with different k can be derived from a protein sequence, each of which presents the sequence order information indirectly. We combine these compositions into a vector to represent the characteristic of a protein sequence To define different combinations of k gapped amino acid pair compositions, we first define a combination index vector of degree d as S  s 1 s 2 s 3 s  d  where d N 1, 0 s  t  N 2 and s  u  s  v  1 t  u  v d and N is the sequence length\he combination of k gapped amino acid pair compositions with degree d is then defined as C  G s 1  G s 2  G s 3  G s  d   to represent the characteristic of a protein sequence Therefore, there are 400 d features for a protein sequence and C is a 400 d dimensional vector. For example a protein sequence is represented as a vector, consisting of one-, three- and five-gapped amino acid pair compositions In this case s 1 s 2 s 3 S 1, 3, 5\d C  G 1  G 3  G 5  Based on the definitions described above, the accumulative combination of degree d is defined as C  G 0  G 1  G 2  G d 1 with the combination index vector S 0, 1 2 d 1\. In this study, we examined different accumulative combinations as discussed in Section 3.2. Other combination types are also discussed in Section 3.6 2.4. Construction of SVM classifiers Each protein sequence in a dataset is transformed into a vector C together with a label of ç+1é or 1é, for SVM to distinguish two different classes, OM and NOM, respectively. Giving these vectors to train the SVM, we can obtain a model, i.e., a well-trained binary SVM classifier to determine whether an unknown protein sequence is an OMP or not In Section 3.2, several SVM classifiers were constructed using different accumulative combination on dataset 1 or dataset 2. In Section 3.3, a SVM classifier was trained using dataset 1 for identifying OMPs in a given set of Gram-negative bacterial proteins. In Section 3.4, a SVM classifier was trained using dataset 2 for discriminating OMPs from proteins belonging to other structural classes 3. Results and discussion Our SVM classifiers were implemented using LIBSVM [15 av ailab le at h ttp  www c sie.n tu ed u  t w  cjlin/libsvm\. Since Radial Basis Function \(RBF\ernel has the best performance, we adopt it in this paper 3.1. Performance measures and evaluation methods 3.1.1. Performance measures In this paper, the precision, recall \(the recall of OM class\, and the recall of NOM class is defined as follows Precision = TP / \(TP + FP Recall = TP / \(TP + FN The recall of NOM class = TN / \(TN + FP where TP \(FP\ denotes the proteins which are predicted as OM class and actually belong to OM \(NOM\ class, and TN \(FN\otes the proteins which are predicted as NOM class and actually belong to NOM \(OM\s On the other hand, at Table 2, the recall of a specific SCL or dual SCLs belonging to OM \(NOM\s is de TN / \(TN + FP\\ith corresponding TP and FN \(TN and FP\t Table 3 and Table 5 the recall of a specific structural class of globular proteins is defined as TN / \(TN + FP\with corresponding TN and FP 3.1.2. 5-Fold cross-validation In this paper, the prediction capability is evaluated by the 5-fold cross-validation where the SVM classifier is trained using a collection of four subsets, and tested against the remaining subset. After five rounds, the average performance is obtained by Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


averaging the performances of the five SVM models. In each round, the best pair of SVM parameters C a tradeoff between large margin and misclassification error\d for the RBF kernel is decided by the 5-fold crossvalidation on the training data. The best parameter pair is explored by the ègrid searchê strategy suggested in the user guide of LIBSVM. Instead of the highest overall acTP + TN + FN + FP\e best parameter pair is selected according to the average of the precision and recall in our implementation. The reason is that our goal is to obtain a high recall with a high precision, not just a highest precision or recall. The 5-fold cross-validation and parameter selection method were used in all experiments in this paper except the comparison \(shown in Table 5\ of our method and the method based on dipeptide composition 3.1.3. Validity check procedure Validity check procedure was used by Gromiha et al. to evaluate their method  W e u s ed th is procedu re f o r com paris on  w i t h th eir  method \(See Section 3.5\The procedure is described as follows. A dataset is randomly split into two subsets, set A and set B, with approximately the same size. The prediction model is developed with set A and then tested on set B. The same procedure is repeated by using set B as the training data and set A as the test data. After repeating the procedure described above several times, the average accuracy is obtained. Note that the optimal SVM parameter pair is also determined according to the 5-fold crossvalidation on the training data 3.2. Performances of different accumulative combinations The performances of different accumulative combinations on dataset 1 and dataset 2 are shown in Figure 1\(a and Figure 1\(b\ respectively. The average of the precision and recall is also shown. Note that the number of features increases 400 when a composition is accumulated In Figure 1\(a\e precision reaches as high as 95.5 with a recall of 92.4% when S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\ In Figure 1\(b\ there are two results with the highest average of precision and recall. One is obtained by using the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4\hen the precision is 96.3% and the recall is 96.0%. The other is obtained by using the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\hen the precision is 96.5% and the recall is 95.8 On the other hand, the results in Figure 1\(a\ow that the differences between the highest performance and the lowest one are only 3.4% and 6.8% in precision and recall respectively. In Figure 1\(b\ the difference between the highest and lowest performances is also small. However the number of features of the experiment of the highest performance is two thousand more than the lowest one in b\The observation indicates that the number of features affects the performances of SVM classifiers slightly                                     a                                    b Figure 1. Performances of different accumulative combinations a\The results on dataset 1. \(b\he results on dataset 2. The green lines show the averages of the precisions and recalls. Note that S 0, 1, 2 d 1 3.3. Discriminating OMPs from proteins with other subcellular localizations Figure 1\(a\hows that the SVM classifier using the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\ performs best. The precision, the recall of OM class, and the recall of NOM class of the prediction result are 95.5 92.4% and 97.9%, respectively. Table 2 shows the TP, FN and recall of each SCL of the prediction result. As observed in Table 2, the lowest recall falls on the dual SCLs P/OMê because one of the only two protein sequences Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


annotated as èP/OMê is incorrectly classified. Nonetheless the result is better than those of PSORTb where both of the proteins were classified as neither èPê nor èOMê. Besides this case, the recalls of all other SCLs are all over 90%. In the prediction result of NOM class, we observed that the recalls are very high besides that of èECê. It indicates that kgapped amino acid pair compositions of proteins annotated as having this SCL are more similar to those of OMPs 3.4. Discriminating OMPs from globular proteins of four typical structural classes An OMP is characterized by its distinct barrel structure as well as its SCL \(outer membrane\he barrel structure is formed from transmembrane strands. The physical properties of these strands are usually similar to those of strands in all globular proteins. Therefore all globular proteins are considered more difficult to discriminate from OMPs than proteins with other structural classes. Here, we have examined the performance of our method using dataset 2, consisting of 377 OMPs and 674 globular proteins belonging to four typical structural classes Table 3 shows the result of the experiment using the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\The precision, recall of OMPs and recall of globular proteins are 96.5%, 95.8% and 98.1%, respectively. The recalls of the four classes of globular proteins are all higher than 96%. The highest recall, 99.4%, was obtained from allclass, while the lowest recall, 96.8%, was from all class The difference between the highest and lowest recalls is less than 3%. Especially, the recall of all globular proteins is also high. The result indicates that our classifier has approximately the same capability to exclude different classes of globular proteins and that our classifier can exclude all globular proteins with high recall 3.5. Comparison with other methods In this section, we show the comparisons of our method and two recent reported methods, the frequent subsequence based SVM method and the dipeptide composition based statistical method. The PSORTb v.2.0 program brief l y de n o ted as P S OR T b in th e f o llo w i ng  predicts 9 SCLs of Gram-negative or Gram-positive bacteria by 9 SVM classifiers, each of which independently predicts whether or not a protein sequence is resident at a specific SCL. One of the 9 SVM classifiers is the OMP classifier. The classifier is based on the frequent subsequences extracted from OMP sequences. Each protein sequence in their dataset was represented as a binary vector consisting of occurrences of these subsequences to train the OMP classifier. In their experiments, different numbers of frequent subsequences as well as various kernel functions and SVM parameters were examined, and the highest precision with a reasonable level of recall was reported Table 4 shows the comparison of PSORTb and our method using the same dataset \(dataset 1\. Using the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 d 6 the precision and recall of our method are 0.9% and 7.1 respectively, higher than those of PSORTb. Moreover, the number of features used by our method is only about onetwentieth that of PSORTb. Using the accumulative combination with S  d 2\e more dramatic decrease in the number of features is observed relative to PSORTb. At that time, the same precision as PSORTb is maintained together with a 4.5% increase in recall. The comparison shows that our method uses relatively rather few features and achieves more high precision and better recall of OMPs than PSORTb. It indicates that the combination of k gapped amino acid pair compositions capture more discriminative sequence information than the occurrences of frequent subsequences extracted only from OMPs Table 2. Discriminating OMPs from proteins with other subcellular localizations The recall of a specific SCL is defined in Section 3.1. For definitions of abbreviations see Table 1 Class SCL TP FN Recall OM 358 33 91.6 OM/EC 76 2 97.4 OM P/OM 1 1 50 Class SCL TN FP Recall C 277 1 99.6 C/CM 16 0 100.0 CM 308 1 99.7 CM/P 51 0 100 P 273 3 98.9 NOM EC 172 18 90.5 Table 3. Discriminating OMPs from globular proteins of four typical structural classes The performance is evaluated by 5-fold cross-validation. GPs denotes globular proteins Four structural classes of globular proteins OMPs GPs All All  Recall 95.8 98.1 99.4 96.8 98.4 97.8 Table 4. Comparison of our method and the OMP classifier of PSORTb v Method Precision Recall of features 95.5 92.4 2,400 d 6 Our method 94.6 89.8 800 d 2 PSORTb 94.6 85.3 46,688 Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


Table 5. Comparison of our method and the statistical  The performances are all evaluated by the validity check procedure described in Section 3.1 Four structural classes of globular proteins Method of features OMPs Globular proteins All All  2,400 d 6\95 97 98 97 98 96 Our method 400 d 1\ 92 96 98 97 98 93 Statistical method 400 \(dipeptides\95 79 80 71 80 84                             a                        b Figure 2. Performance of each k gapped amino acid pair composition The green lines show the averages of precisions and recalls. \(a\he results on dataset 1. \(b\he results on dataset 2. Note that S  k  Gromih eloped  a s t atis tical m e t h od bas ed  on weighted dipeptide composition to discriminate OMPs from other proteins. Table 5 shows the comparison of our method and the statistical method using the same dataset dataset 2\d evaluation method \(validity check procedure. See Section 3.1 for it\The non-gapped amino acid pair composition d 1\ was used because of the same number of features as the dipeptide composition based method. The result shows a dramatic increase of 17% in the recall of globular proteins and only a 3% decrease in the recall of OMPs relative to the statistical method. It indicates that our SVM method based on non-gapped amino acid pair composition outperforms the statistical method based on dipeptide composition. Using the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 d 6 we obtained the same recall of OMPs and a dramatic increase of 18% in the recall of globular proteins relative to the statistical method. On the other hand, the recalls of the four structural classes are all higher than 93% \(within both d 1 and d 6\ Especially, the recall of all globular proteins of our method achieves remarkable increase of 26% compared to the statistical method. It shows the outstanding capability of our method in distinguishing all globular proteins from barrel membrane proteins. The comparison shows that our method outperforms the statistical method based on dipeptide composition 3.6. Performance of each k gapped amino acid pair composition and other combinations In this section, we have also evaluated the performance of each k gapped amino acid pair composition. The results are shown in Figure 2. Based on some observation of these results, several experiments with other combinations are performed As observed in Figure 2\(a\ the performance of the one-, two-, and five-gapped amino acid pair compositions are better than others. Therefore, a SVM classifier was constructed using a novel combination with S 1, 2, 5 consisting of these k gapped amino acid pair compositions The result shows a precision of 95.0% with a recall of 91.5%. It shows 0.9% improvement in precision and the same value of recall compared to the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2\ Moreover, the average of the precision and recall is over the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3\ and that with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4\. However, the performance is worse than the best performed accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\. Interestingly, the precision and recall of the combination with S 1, 3, 5\re the same as that with S 1, 2, 5 As observed in Figure 2\(b\he one-, three- and five gapped amino acid pair compositions perform better. Using the combination with S 1, 3, 5\e performance Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


achieves a precision of 95.5% with a recall of 96.6%. It shows a decrease of 0.5% in precision and an increase of 1.4% in recall compared to the accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2\wever, the performance is worse than the best performed accumulative combination with S 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\. We also examined the combination with S 0, 2, 4\he performance achieves the precision of 95.7% with a recall of 94.2 These experiments show that these k gapped amino acid pair compositions within a combination contain redundant sequence order information and that the combination with S 1, 3, 5\ contains more discriminative sequence information to improve the prediction result. It also indicates that one-, three- and five-gapped amino acid pair compositions are meaningful for OMPs 4. Conclusion In this paper, we propose a method for discriminating OMPs from other proteins by Support Vector Machines using combinations of k gapped amino acid pair compositions. We analyzed the discriminative capability for different combinations of k gapped amino acid pair compositions. For dataset 1, the performance achieves a precision of 95.5% with a recall of 92.4% when using the combination of k gapped amino acid pair compositions with S 0 1, 2, 3, 4, 5\ There are 0.9% and 7.1% increases in precision and recall, respectively, compared to the method based on frequent subsequences. Furthermore, the number of features is remarkably reduced in our method. It shows that the combination of gapped amino acid pair compositions can capture more discriminative sequence information than frequent subsequences. For dataset 2, the results showed that our method has approximately the same power for discriminating OMPs from globular proteins even in different structural classes and that our method is much more powerful than the dipeptide based statistical method for discriminating OMPs from all globular proteins In this study, several combinations of k gapped amino acid pair compositions are demonstrated to contain valuable sequence information to discriminate OMPs from other proteins. The results indicate that the combination of one-, three- and five-gapped amino acid pair compositions are more meaningful than other combinations for OMPs We believe that further study in the gapped amino acid pair compositions will lead us to understand better the structural regularity of the OMP sequences and biological meanings behind the gapped amino acid pair compositions. Moreover, the high precision and recall of the OMPs as well as the high accuracy of excluding globular proteins represent the potential for identifying OMPs encoded within the genome References 1 Ma rte lli P  L Fa rise lli P  Krog h, A  a nd Ca sa dio, R A  Sequence-Profile-Based HMM for Predicting and Discriminating Barrel Membrane Proteins Bioinformatics  18, 2002, pp. S46-S53 2 Ba g o s  P  G L i a k opoulos T  D  Spy ropou los I.C. a n d  Hamodrakas, S.J., çA Hidden Markov Model Method, Capable of Predicting and Discriminating Barrel Outer Membrane Proteins BMC Bioinformatics 5, 2004, pp. 29 the web service at: http://bioinformatics.biol.uoa.gr PRED-TMBB 3 Big e low H  R P e tre y  D  S., L i u, J   P r z y by ls k i D  a n d  Rost, B., çPredicting Transmembrane Beta-Barrels in Proteomes Nucleic Acids Research 32, 2004, pp. 2566-2577 4 L i u, Q   Zh u Y   W a ng B  a n d L i Y    I de nt if ic a tion of  Barrel Membrane Proteins Based on Amino Acid Composition Properties and Predicted Secondary Structure Computational Biology and Chemistry 27, 2003, pp. 355361 5 She R C h e n  F W a ng K Es te r, M G a rd y  J  L  a n d  Brinkman, F.S.L., çFrequent-Subsequence-Based Prediction of Outer Membrane Proteins SIGKDDê03 August 2003, pp. 24-27 6 G a rd y   J  L  L a ird, M.R., Che n  F., Re y  S., Wa ls h, C. J    Ester, M. and Brinkman, F.S.L., çPSORTb v.2.0: Expanded Prediction of Bacterial Protein Subcellular Localization and Insights Gained from Comparative Proteome Analysis Bioinformatics 21, 2005, pp. 617-623  G r o m i h a M  M  and  S u w a  M   A S i m p l e S t at i s t i cal  Method for Discriminating Outer Membrane Proteins with Better Accuracy Bioinformatics 21, 2005, pp. 961-968 8 G r o m iha M.M., A h m a d, S. a nd S u w a M A pplic a tion of  Residue Distribution along the Sequence for Discriminating Outer Membrane Proteins Computational Biology and Cheminstry 29, 2005, pp. 135-142  Z h ai  Y and S a i e r M   T h e  Barrel Finder \(BBF\Program, Allowing Identification of Outer Membrane Barrel Proteins Encoded within Prokaryotic Genomes Protein Science 11, 2002, pp. 2196-2207 10 B e r v e n, F.S Flik k a K J e ns e n   H  B. a n d Ei dha m m e r I BOMP: a Program to Predict Integral Barrel Outer Membrane Proteins Encoded within Genomes of GramNegative Bacteria Nucleic Acids Research 32, 2004, pp W394-W399 11 H ua S. a nd S un, Z  S up por t V e c t or Ma c h ine A pproa c h  for Protein Subcellular Localization Prediction Bioinformatics 17, 2001, pp. 721-728 12 P a r k  K  J   a n d K a ne h i s a M  P re dic tion of  P r ote in Su bcellular Localizations by Support Vector Machines Using Compositions of Amino Acids and Amino Acid Pairs Bioinformatics 19, 2003, pp. 1656-1663 13 G uo, J L i n, Y  a nd Su n, Z  A N o v e l Me tho d f o r P r o t e i n  Subcellular Localization: Combining Residue-Couple Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


Model and SVM Proceedings of The 3rd Asia-Pacific Bioinformatics Conference January 2005, pp. 117-129 14 G a r d y J  L Spe nc e r C W a ng K Es te r M T u s n a d y   G.E., Simon, I., Hua, S., deFays, K., Lambert, C., Nakai K. and Brinkman, F.S.L., çPSORT-B: improving protein subcellular localization prediction for Gram-negative bacteria Nucleic Acids Research 31, 2003, pp. 3613-17 15 C h a n g  C C and L i n  C J  L IBS V M  A L i b r ar y f o r  Support Vector Machinesé, 2001. Software available at http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm Proceedings of the 5th IEEE Symposium on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering \(BIBEê05 0-7695-2476-1/05 $20.00 © 2005 IEEE 


on the intention to use self- and e-assessment center as well as the influence of PQI, PCS and PTS on PU it might represent a single example for a specific economy, country or cultural region . There might be differences for the intention of different informnation systems with different settings. Future research should discuss this issue more detailed  Furthermore our questionnaire was just answered by large-scale corporations in Germany. So our results might not be directly transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises  In addition, as we collected our data from participants at the same time using the same survey our results may be affected by common method varian  6. Conclusion  Self-assessment and e-assessment as online games in staff recruiting are a valuable solution for companies to support on the one side their employer branding activities and on the other side the selection of the favored candidate. The case study of our papers shows that companies can generate more qualified applications and concurrently save time and money. Based on these findings our empirical research with 191 of the Top-1000 companies of Germany provide statistical evidence that perceived quality improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings are the main reasons beside perceived usefulness and ease of use why companies intend to use self- and e-assessment in their recruiting processes  References   Bago zzi  R  P   T h e Ro l e  of M easu r e m en t i n T h eo ry Construction and Hypothesis Testing: Toward a Holistic Model", in: Conceptual and Theoretical Developments in Marketing, O.C. Ferrell, S.W. Brown and C.W. Lamb eds.\ago, pp. 15-32, 1979 2 Ba g o z z i R  P  a n d Y i  Y   O n t h e Ev a l ua tio n of  Structural Equation Models", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science \(16\pp 74-94, 1988 3 Ba rtra m  D Testing on the Internet: Issues Challenges and Opportunities in the field of Occupational Assessments in: D. Bartram, and R.K. Hambleton \(eds Computer-Based Testing and the Internet: Issues and Advances, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, England 2006 4 B r o w n, S  A  a nd Ve nk a t e s h V  Model of Adoption of Technology in Households: A Baseline Model Test and Extension Incorporating Household Life Cycle MIS Quarterly \(29:3\pp.399-426, 2005  Bu zzetto M o r e N A   and A l ad e A  J   Best Practices in e-Assessment Journal of Information Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 251-269 6 Ca lig iuri P  M., a n d P h i llips J.M An application of self-assessment realistic job previews to expatriate assignments The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 2003, Vol. 14, No. 7, pp. 11021116 7 Ca rm ine s E. G  Ze lle r R A  1979 Re lia bil ity a nd Validity Assessment. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications 8 Ca s c io, W  F A pplie d P s y c ho log y in H u m a n Re s ourc e  Management, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliffs, NJ, 1998 9 Cha p p e ll, D Ea t oug h V D a v i e s M.N  O  a n d  Griffiths, M EverQuest It s Just a Comupter Game Right? An Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis of Online Gaming Addicition International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 205-216 10 C h in, W  W  T he P a rtia l L e a s t Squa re s A pproa c h to  Structural Equation Modelling", in: Modern methods for business research, G.A. Marcoluides \(ed.\, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, London, pp. 295-336, 1998 11 Ch in, W  W  F re que ntly A s k e d Q u e s tions  Partial Least Squares & PLS-Graph", 2000 12 hill J. R a n d G ilbe r t, A  A P a ra dig m  f o r Developing Better Measures of Marketing Constructs  Journal of Marketing Research 15 \(2\pp. 77-94, 1979 13 C o n nol ly T a nd Sta n s f ie ld M  Using GamesBased eLearning Technologies in Overcoming Difficulties in Teaching Information Systems Journal of International Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 459-476 14 D a v i s  F. D   1 9 89  P e r c e i v e d U s ef ulne s s  P e r c e i v e d Ease of Use and User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly, 13:3, pp. 319-339 15 D o ll, W  J A  H e ndric k s on, a n d X  D e ng  Using Davis s Perceived Usefulness and Ease-of-use Instruments for Decision Making: A Confirmatory and Multigroup Invariance Analysis  Decision Sciences 29\(4\, 1998, pp 839-869 16 Eis e n h a r dt, K   M. \(1 98 9 ilding T h e o rie s f r om Ca s e  Study Research, Academy of Management Review, 14, 4 532-550 17  Fa e r be r, F  K e im T a nd W e itz e l T  An Automated Recommendation Approach to Personnel Selection  In: Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems; Tampa 18  Fe ng M H e ff e r na n, N  T a nd K o e d ing e r, K  R  Addressing the Testing Challenge with a Web-Based EAssessment System that Tutors as it Assesses  Proceedings of the 15th international conference on World Wide Web, Edinburgh, Scotland, 2006, pp. 307-316 19  For n e ll, C a n d L a rc ke r, D F E v a lua ting S t ruc tura l  Equitation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Errors", Journal of Marketing Research, 18 pp. 39-50, 1981 20 G e org e  D I., a nd Sm ith, M.C An Empirical Comparison of Self-Assessment and Organizational Assessment in Personnel Selection Public Personnel Management, 1990, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 175-190 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


21 G r iff iths, M.D., Da v i e s  M.N.O., a nd Cha p p e ll, D  Breaking the Stereotype: The Case of Online Gaming  CyberPsychology & Behavior. January 1, 2003, Vol 6, No 1, pp. 81-91 22 Hu l l an d  J U se o f P a rtial L e a s t Sq u a res \(P L S  in   Strategic Management Research: A Review of Four Recent Studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20 \(4\, pp. 195204, 1999 23 J o ne s L a nd Fle t c h e r C  Self-assessment in a selection situation: An evaluation of different measurement approaches Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2002, Vol. 75, pp. 145-161 24 K e im T  a nd W e itz e l  T  Strategies for Hiring IT Professionals: An Empirical Analysis of Employer and Job Seeker Behavior on the IT Labor market In: Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS\ulco, Mexico 25 L a um e r S Ec k h a r dt, A a nd W e itz e l T   Recruiting IT Professionals in a Virtual World In: Proceedings of the 12th Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems PACIS 2008\uzhou, China 2 L e e I   The Architecture for a Next-Generation Holistic E-Recruiting System Communications of the ACM, Vol. 50, No. 7, 81-85, 2007 27 L e v i ne E.L Flory  A   a nd A s h, R.A  Selfassessment in personnel selection Journal of Applied Psychology, 1977, Vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 428-435 28  Ma lho t ra Y., a n d G a lle tta D. F Extending the Technology Acceptance Model to Account for Social Influence Theoretical Bases and Empirical Validation  Proceedings of the 32 nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2 Lo u H Lu o  W  and St r ong D  2 00 0   Perceived Critical Mass Effect on Groupware Acceptance  European Journal of Information Systems 9\(2\p.91-103 30 N u nna lly J  C., a nd Be rns t e i n, I. H  Psychometric Theory 3rd ed.\ McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994 31 Phil lips  J.M  Effects of Realistic Job Previews on Multiple Organizational Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis  Academy of Management Journal, 1998, Vol. 41, No. 6 pp. 673-690 3  P o d s ako f f  P   M    M acKen zie S  B  L ee J Y  Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003\. Common Method Bias in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 879-903 33 Ri dg w a y  J Mc Cus k e r, S., a nd P e a d D   Literature Review of e-Assessment Nesta Future Lab, Bristol, UK 2004 3 Ry n e s S  L   Recru i t m en t   Job Choice, and Post-Hire Consequences in: M.D. Dunnette, and L.M. Hough \(eds Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto, CA, 1991 35 Ste i nk ue hle r   C.A  Learning in massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Learning sciences, Santa Monica, California, 2004 36 U nde rw ood J  D  M Ba ny a r d P.E. a n d D a v i e s  M.N.O Students in digital worlds: Lost in Sin City or reaching Treasure Island BJEP Monograph Series II Number 5 - Learning through Digital Technologies Volume 1, Number 1, 1 July 2007 , pp. 83-99 36  Ve nk a t e s h V M o r r i s  M  G  un d A c k e r m a nn P  L   2000 A Longitudinal Field Investigation of Gender Differences in Individual Technology Adoption DecisionMaking Processes Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Vol. 83, Nr. 1, S. 33-60 3 W e i ss E  A    Self-Assessment Communications of the ACM, 1990, Vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 110-132 38 W a rd, M G r uppe n, L a n d Re g e hr, G  Measuring Self-assessment: Current State of the Art Advances in Health Sciences Education, 2002, Vol. 7, pp. 63-80 39 Y i n, R. K  20 03 s e Stu d y R e s e a r c h D e s i g n a nd Methods, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, London New Dehli Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


