A Clustering Prediction Scheme for Wireless Cellular Network John Tsiligaridis Mathematics and Computer Science Heritage University 3240 Fort Road USA Toppenish WA 98948 tsiligaridisj\(heritage.edu ABSTRACT A centralized collaborative system between nodes and BSs is developed and a new prediction mobility scheme is proposed with Data Mining and Time Series techniques Based on the mobility prediction bandwidth is reserved for the paths with the maximum support or the best confidence rule so that the handoff calls service can be guaranteed This new 
approach belongs to the Direct Group Mobility DGM prediction scheme and is based on the Tree Path Construction Algorithm TPCON for each Base Station BS The nodes with DGM support provide the BSs with the important aggregate bandwidth information so that they can avoid the congestion for the handoff users sake For finding the most popular group path based on TPCON clusters are constructed according to the various flows of the group mobility over an area of mobile stations We focus 
on the center oriented clusters that are very crucial for bandwidth prediction purposes An adaptive clustering algorithm creates the chain of activated cells at each time A Call Admission Control CAC algorithm is developed for each BS for minimizing the call dropping probability This study deals with the system behavior only at exceptional congestion time periods periodical events Simulation results are provided KEYWORDS Mobile computing Mobile Database Data Mining association rules 1 INTRODUCTION The process of moving from one cell to the 
other while a call is in progress  is called handoff3 If no channel is available to continue the service in the next cell then the handoff is dropped It is evident from the end user's point of view that it is better to have initial blocking of a connection attempt instead of an abrupt termination of an ongoing connection due to luck of resources during Raj Acharya Computer Science and Engineering Penn State University USA 220 Pond Lab.,University Park PA 16802 acharya@cse.psu.edu handoff 1 Many strategies 
have been developed that ensure handoff connections and have given priority over new call attempts such as the channel reservation schemes 2 the queueing of handoff request 1 the guard channel policy 3 The availability of the wireless network resources cannot be guaranteed throughout the lifetime of a connection Many user mobility patterns have been developed for making prediction In 4 a probabilistic prediction scheme for bandwidth reservation based on the ZivLempel data compression algorithm for each individual user's movement has been developed In 5 
the mobile terminal with a data structure mechanism is responsible to make prediction for the next move The quality of service QoS in cellular networks is mainly determined by two blocking probabilities Call blocking probability cbp is the probability that a new connection request is not granted permission to enter the network Call dropping probability cdp is the probability that a connection is violently ended during a handoff between cells because of the target cell's luck of resources In the group mobility case 
there is a common path for a group of users that tends to be repeated at a specific time of the day periodical events weekly sport games etc while at congestion time period rush hours the mobile changes the direction of the remaining path This particular case needs careful consideration and study Before during or after the end of the event many mobility users ask bandwidth from the cell of the event at the same time This condition may create congestion and dropping 
of the internal calls In this respect a collaborative system between the wired and wireless part of the network is developed Data Mining 6 with the terms of itemsets association rules support and confidence provides us with the necessary tools to elaborate with the bandwidth allocation problem In 7 the problem of clustering cells into a virtual system named Virtual Bottleneck Cell VBC system is examined and a heuristics clustering algorithm is proposed Our work examines the bandwidth 0-7695-2387-0/05/$20.00 2512005 IEEE 298 


reservation problem by using a collaborative system based on Data Mining methods Additionally we can provide information of the time group mobility and of the aggregation of the group flows at some locations aggressive points of theflows that will concentrate high demand of bandwidth in a time period A new method directly related to the Group Mobility DGM is developed Our work based on DGM introduces a new method of finding critical paths with the use of Tree Path Construction TPCA and the Adaptive Probabilistic Tree Clustering Algorithm APTCA Two CAC are developed the predictive and the adaptive one The rest of this paper is organized as follows The section 2 contains the Model Description In sections 3 the DGM with TPCON and APTCA are described respectively Based on the above two efficient CAC algorithms and bandwidth reservation schemes are proposed in Section 4 Simulation results are presented in section 5 2 MODEL DESCRIPTION 2.1 Wireless Network Structure In our model of the classical wireless/mobile network with a cellular infrastructure we consider a wired backbone and a number of base stations BSs A mobile resides in a cell communicates with its current BS through another party maybe a node connected to the wired network or with another mobile When a mobile moves into the adjacent cell a handoff will enable the mobile to keep communicating with the new BS probably without any difference The BSs are supposed to be fully connected 2.2 Data Mining Concepts The Basics Rules A Data Mining method is developed in order to predict mobility patterns by utilizing their previous history For the DGM 2-itemsets are used Let I   i i2,i3,...,i,n be a set of literals called items Each item represents a cell The path is as an itemset or a large itemset l-itemset that is a set of items numbers or letters An itemset containing k items is called a k-itemset An association rule implies the form X Y where Xcl Ycl and XnY  0 6 Support of an itemset string stands for the number of times that an itemset or sub-itemset appears in the database The task of mining association rules is essential to discover strong associations rules in large databases The prediction results are used to reserve bandwidth in advance of a connection with eventually adjacent cells For a rule that implies A,B,C  D it is necessary that both itemsets A,B,C and A,B,C,D are frequent Then the confidence c of the rule is computed as the quotient of the supports for the itemsets c sup\(A,B,C,D  sup\(A,B,C Strong association rules are rules with a confidence value c above a given threshold A rule consists of two parts called the antecedent and the consequent and it is denoted as A=*C where A is antecedent and C the consequent condition 8 More details on rules and partial order of rules are beyond the scope of this work 2.3 The Direct Group Mobility 2.3.1 Introduction Definition 1 A path is defined as an itemset or raw of the routing table of a BS It has the form of a 2-itemset 1-itemr 2-itemm  Branch paths are the itemsets that have one or more branch beyond some position of the itemsets For the itemsets abcde abcdg abcde after the 4rd position we have a branch Definition 2 Common subpath cs is the common part of the branch paths The cs is the subpath abcd Restricted Support is the support given by the first same items that compose the cs Extensive support is given by extension of the support operation beyond the first cs Example 1 For the two group paths abcde and abcge the extensive support can be 2 not only for a,b,c but also for e after the mismatch items d and g while the restricted support contains the same support value 2 only for a b c items Definition 3 In a BS table there is a path connection when the first path or an 2-itemsetk 1-itemk 2-itemk  E BS and the second path or an 2-itemset 1-itemm 2item have a common item 2-itemk 1-item and both of them belong in consequence time period Lemma I The worst rule from the side of the value of less confidence can be when the antecedent condition has greater support  ms and many branches Proof This is due to the fact that the antecedent support and the rule support have the antimonotonicity property in the confidence function conf\(AnC AnC A we have many branches sup\(A=nC has low value while sup\(A has higher value Example 2 We consider the following branch with the corresponding support ms abc sup 80 sup  30 abce sup  20  abcf sup  50 1st level branch Cak.d  supa5d  supabc  30/80  0.375 Cabx  0.25 Cabs  0.625 The branch itemset abce has the the worst rule while the itemset abcf has the best rule 2.3.2 General Description of the DGM We use a collaborative system cell-BS-node with the composition approach in order to take the mobility trend 299 


at special congestion times periodical events without taking into account the user mobility profile The DGM based on the groups move can guarantee the service of handoff calls The operations of DGM are described When a mobile user goes from cell i c into a cell j c area a message uplink stream is sent directly from cJ to its BS with the tuple arrival time id cells previous target channel duration previous cell The itemset of a tuple will be a 2-itemset This process continues to every subsequent cell until the end of the path for all the mobile users The indication of congestion IC the symbol c can be added at the end of the tuple The BS creates the preprocessing phase It gathers the tuples according to their arrival time and distributes them into a predefined time period dt permanent or variable value Periodically or at the end of the day it follows the phase of sorting and the tuples having support values greater than the predefined ms are transferred to the corresponding node The aggregate tuples replaces all the analytical ones in a BS The nodes compose the partial by the 2-itemsets of BSs,\(pair of BSs in order to track the group mobility They transform the tuples of their BSs routing tables into nodes of trees and examine the continuity of the moves along the adjacent cells Using the clustering algorithm the group trend\(s during the special event can be discovered This information is sent to the BSs downlink stream Example 3 For simplicity reasons we suppose that the two input parameters are the start period 9 and the move direction from BS1 to BS3 from left to right Fig 1 contains the routing tables of three BSs and the structure of actions that take place at the node et cds ah,cd,ef per sp ls IC 10 100 ab c 10 90 bd c 10 30  c 11 10 d c BS2 psc spls lC 11 65 4 c 12 30 jkc 12 15 Idc  13 60g c 13 20 elc cdLsiwmo,qr per sp WIs IC 12 20lkpc l2lix c 12 10 pq c 12 5 cr c 14 10 lq c Fig 1 The structure of node finding the group trend A group trend is noticed from cell a BS to cell q BS3 during the periods 10 to 14 From the TPCON and the APTCA we can take finally a  b-+d--*j-+k-+-*lq the path with the large itemset abdjklq After tracing the route of the group the information is sent back to the BSs by the downlink stream 3 THE PROPOSED ALGORITHMS 3.1 The Tree Path Construction Algorithm TPCON In order to find the group mobility trend the transformation of the routing table into tree\(s is needed According to the Tree Path Construction TPCON the path with the maximum support is considered as root The right branch of a tree includes the successor cells no nodes of a root node of a tree if we search BSs from left to right For any BS there is a numerical order of the cells according to the function ordo f.i we define ord\(g  1 and ord\(h 2 for the BS2 A path I follows the path2 if the nodes of path2 have the successor order or 2itemi=l-item If for a path m of a BS 2-itemsetm 1itemm 2-itemm  the 2-itemm o BS then we search if 2itemm E BSp where p.i and BSp is adjacent to BSi check for continuity Based on this an order of the paths is considered at the beginning for each BS so that for a node the path with smaller number or predecessor path will take the position of the left child while the next number or successor path will take the right position f.e the path gj will take the left child position of the jk Independent node is the node that can not be connected to any root node of the set S of trees of a BS and it has not branches f.i the path or node dh can not be connected to any node of BS I Example 3 jk node is successive of dj root node In the next Lemma given the tree node a condition for left or right child is defined Lemma 2 A subpath or row in a BS 1 itemsetj 1-itemj 2-itemj   may belong to a tree with root node 2-itemseti 1 itemi 2-itemi for the positions 1 left child if ord 1-itemj   ord 2-itemi 2 right child if ord 1-item    ord 2-itemi Example 4 For the 1st BS with the a,b,c,d,e,f cells the order of paths is ab 1 bc->2 cd->3 de 4 ef->5 or similarly a->l b->2,c->3,d->4,e->5,f->6  The tree from the 1S BS routing table Fig 1 starting from the path with the maximum support It row and the path is created with successors cells The right branch is ab bd de because d is successor cell of b etc For the BS2 the gk will probably be the left child of the tree with root dj since ord\(g  ord\(j The kl will probably be the right child of the tree with root dj since ord\(k  ord\(j Fig 2 The pseudocode of the TPCON is as follows 300 


From the routing constructed BSI a b c d e f  1,2 3o,4,5 6 tables of the three BSs Fig 3 according BS2 1,2.3.4,5.6 to the TPCON the corresponding trees are i BS3 I m.n,o,p qr I 1,2,3,4.5,6 i 1 I 1 Fig 2 The Tree Path Construction Algorithm 301 TPCON H T1 T2  Tn the tables of BS   BSn 11 2-itemseti I itemi 2-itemi  the root subpath of the BSi 11 2-itemset l-itemj 2-itemj  is any row j of Table T1 BS1 1 k  n I the order of selected BSs is the order of Tl Tn for each BS1 tree  create the order of cells a 1 b->2 etc take the path with the maximum support as root node previous path node  root node while not end of the rows  read the next row of the routing table if  the next path is successor of the previous path the next path takes the right child position if  the next path is predecessor of the previous path the next path takes the left child position if ord\(l item j  ord 2-items search for the probable left tree child if ord 1-item j  ord 2-items search for the probable right tree child if  the next path can not be connected to any node of the tree the next path create independent root node if 2-itemm o BS of row m of Ti search the adjacent BSs in order to find continuity   1s b I 1"trcee 3'dtrec I I I 


The most popular group trend is the 1 st l-itemset a b d j k p q r among LI abdjkpqr L2 abdelq L3 abdjklq because For Ll\("abdjkpqr for conf BS BS2 conf dj bd  65/90 0.72 for confBS2 BS3 conf kp jk  20/30 0.66 For L2 abdelq for confBsl BS2 conf el de  20/30 0.66 for conf BS2 BS3 conf lq el  10/20 0.5 For L3\("abdjklq for conf BSI BS2 conf dj bd  65/90 0.72 for confBS2 Bs3conf lq ki  10/15 0.66 The stronger confidence 1 for conf 1s BS2 max 0.72 0.66 0,72  0.72  Hence the LI or L3 will have be the most popular group itemset for BS I and BS2 2 for conf BS2 BS3 max 0.66 0.5 0.66 0.66 Hence LI or L3 will be the most critical path for BS2 and BS3 Finally LI is the most critical path since it has more items 3.2 The Construction of the Probabilistic Tree In Fig 2 we can see that each node of the tree includes not only the support as it has been taken from the Fig 1 but also the confidence according to the direction of move from left to right  BSI BS2->BS3 With this information we can consider the probabilistic aspect of the group mobility Each node holds the percentage of the users that follows the move from left to right For the node dj the 72 of users comes from the previous node bd Fig 2 3.3 The Construction of Clusters Our work is based on the agglomerative hierarchical Clustering 9 The objective function is based on the maximization of the system's utilization while satisfying the required QoS The agglomerative procedures start with n singleton clusters and form the sequence by successively merging clusters[10 Working in this way we start with one singleton cluster and form the sequence of the next ones The most natural representation of hierarchical clustering is a corresponding tree dendrogram which shows how the samples cells are grouped In our case the time domain defines the sequence of the nodes that constitute the dendrogram In Fig 2 we see that according to the time domain how can we take the sequence of cells a BSI b BS1 d BSI  i BS2 etc  The group mobility motion can be considered by a sequence of clusters or subclusters that have the size of a multiple of a cell such as cluster with 3,5,6 cells Following the sequence of the nodes from Fig 2 we can define the order of aggregation of cells and the creation of the final cluster into the three defined BSs The cluster policy focuses on the aggregation and the deaggregation of cells according to each congestion time duration In each time only a part of the clusters subcluster or cell are activated So at period 10 the first two cells a and b will be activated at l Ithe d and j cells until the last time period 14 when the last 1 and q cells are activated Two are the basic categories of clusters centralized and decentralized ones depending on the group mobility trend In the former the mobile groups have increased trend while in the latter the mobile groups have decreased trend The centralized clusters starts from various cells starting cell moving through a series of cells route cells and they are addressed ends up a common cell aggressive point of the flows or the last cell that will concentrate the high demand of bandwidth for a time period The congestion period for the route cells is small comparing to the congestion duration time of the last cell At the last cell the periodical event  like football game will take place For the centralized clusters the prediction of the location and the duration of the sequential congestion cells with the last cell are both important For the centralized cluster we can notice two or more starting cells seeds in different BSs from which the group flow can start the move at the same or another time The Fig 3 contains a centralized cluster with threeflows and with end cell is e Due to limited space the metrics in Clusters are not included in this work Fig 3 Flows of group mobility 3.4 The Adaptive Probabilistic Tree Clustering Algorithm 302 


The Adaptive Probabilistic Tree Clustering Algorithm APTCA is based on the TPCON apd the probabilistic tree and it contains two phases the creation and the separation The first phase contains the join operation with the neighboring cells while the second phase contains the separation of cells starting from the first in coming ones\(like queue The first connected cell to the cluster is also the first that is separated serviced according to a FIFO fashion queue The creation of the cluster can be done Clu i.tl  cl i.tl  Ca\(for the ISt cluster 1 Clu t2  ClU i.t  U Cl i.t2  for 2nd cluster etc 2 Where cl i  is the cluster-cell that is added to the cluster-body at tl,for flow i Clu j.tl is the cluster set of cells for all the connected cluster-cell atti Searching the tree of nodes the addition of paths and the cells can be done according to the confidence value For centralized clusters we have increasing value of confidence while for the decentralized ones we have decreasing values of confidence of the nodes to follow It is evident that the evolution of the cluster is to give us the most popular group path of the cells More details are not provided here due to space limitations 4 THE PREDICTIVE AND ADAPTIVE CONNECTION ADMISSION CONTROL CAC FOR GROUP MOBILITY Two are the kinds of the CAC provided the cooperative and the autonomous CAC The first is most effective than the second one since it focuses on the update for the upcoming congestion directly to the last node The cooperative CAC When the BSs meat congestion they send a message time BS cell  directly to the node The message consists the key with which probabilistic tree is searched If the key is included in the tree the node sends first a message directly to the BS with the last node of the flow with the probable time of the congestion order to inform it for the forthcoming aggregation of hand of calls and second to all the intermediate BSs In Fig 3 the node sends the information arrow X direct to cell e after receiving the upstream message from a f and j cells for the upcoming congestion The autonomous CAC The node sends the congestion information time,BS,#cell to each BS in series The CAC is executed by the BSs Each BS informs the next BS for the upcoming congestion chain In case that the last cell BS is not informed about the arrival of any flow then at this cell the reservation policy will not work well chain problem The CAC will operate when the cdp exceeds a threshold thl adaptive or remain under a threshold th2 predictive For the predictive CAC in order the cdp to be less than the thl all the available channels are offered for partial reservation and local requests are dropped in favor of handoff users The adaptive CAC is activated only when cdp>th2 5 SIMULATION The problem of simulation is that because the users move from cell to cell it is not easy to predict the exact reserve bandwidth for each cell at a certain time For this reason a sampling method is used so that bandwidth can be reserved for a user at a specific time For our experiments we assume the uniform mobility behavior of the users This means that a user follows a cyclic pattern within one day period We use time sub-periods during a day for several weeks in order to find periodical events and examine the mobility of each user The path is generated as follows 1 select two nodes in the graph randomly as original and destination nodes 2 whenever the mobile user leaves the current cell it moves to a neighboring cell which is closest to the destination 3 the favorite group path is selected according to TPCON and APTCA We consider a coverage area that consists of 20 base stations each having 6 neighbors on average The average distance between two BSs is I mile Among the cells within a path mobile users can have a new call request with equal probabilities During a call the mobile may stay at the original cell or move along the path If a call does not terminate when the mobile reaches the end of the path it will stay at the end cell of that path Call requests are generated according to a Poisson process with rate X calls/cell/s Call duration is the same for all calls and exponentially distributed with mean value of 120s.Two cases of mobility are considered low user mobility\(<40 miles/hour and high user mobility from 40 to 70 miles/hour Two flows are considered that they go towards a common last cell Two scenaria are developed below 1 All the kinds of users scenario 1 Due to the high load 2 flows we have increased values of cdp and cbp Fig 4 At the congestion time the local users calls of the critical routes cells are dropped due to lack of available channels so that the handoff users are serviced In Fig 5 we have the case of service according to CAC predictive where the cdp<0.20 In Fig 6 the CAC adaptive is activated only when cdp>0.30 303 


vol 1 pp 96-109 1996 2 C Oliviera J Kim T Suda An adaptive Bandwidth Reservation scheme for High Speed Multimedia Wireless networks IEEE J Selected Areas in Comm vol 16 users in PCS networks Proceedings MOBICOM 99 Seattle WA Aug 1999 5 E Cayirci l Akyldiz User Mobility Pattern Scheme for Location Update and Paging in Wireless Systems IEEE Trans On Mobile Computing Vol 1,No:3 July-Sept 2002 6 D Hand P Smyth H Mannila Principles of Data Mining MIT Press,Sept 2000 7 B Sadeghi E Knighly Architecture and Algorithms for Scalable Mobile QoS Wireless Networks V.9 No 1 pp.720 8 R Bagardo R Agrawal Mining the Most Interesting Rules Proceedings of 5th ACM SIGKDD 2 Users with branches and extensive support scenario 2 The Fig 7 shows adaptive autonomous CAC with extensive support where the last node is not updated for the 2nd flow arrival chain problem On the contrary in Fig 8 the last node is informed for the two flows arrival and prepare the bandwidth reservation so that the cdp is less than the cdp of the Fig.7 6 CONCLUSION The innovation of our work lies on the development of a mobility prediction scheme based pp 145154,1999 9 R.Duda P.Hart D Stork Pattern Classification 2001 2nd Edition John Wiley 304 0,6 8 0,4 4--cdp CL 0,2 cbp time\(sec 1,5 _ 4-1 cdp  cbp j O _ 00 cn t m ltt te  1 time sec 0,8 O 06 4--~~~~~cdp  0,4 0,2 U cbp 0 time\(sec on the Data Mining concepts and the cooperation between the wired and the wireless part of the network aiming at the aggregate temporally prediction The TPCON and APTCA offers the ability for each BS to change the service priority in favor of the handoff users Fig.4 Thecbp-cdp before CAC Fig 5 Predictive CAC cdp<0.20 Fig 6 Adaptive CAC cdp>0.30 0,8 8 0,6 0A 0,4 0,2 0 I cdp cbp time sec Fig 7 Adaptive CAC with extensive support for only the one flow 0,8 8 0,6 0 X 0,4 X 0,2 0  cdp _--cbp O C>l At N 7 Cf Ct IO LOt time sec Fig 8 Adaptive CAC with extensive support for both flows REFERENCES I P Agrawal D.K Anvekar and B Narendran Channel Management policies for Handovers in Cellular Networks Bell Labs Technical J pp 858-874,'98 3 S Boumerdassi A.-L Beylot Adaptive channel allocation for wireless PCV Mobile Networks and Applications vol 4,pp 111-116 1999 41 A Bhattacharya S.K Das LeZi_update An information theoretic approach to track mobile 


 where TP \(true positives the system correctly identifies as positives; FP \(false positives identifies as positives; FN \(false negatives number of relevant documents the system fails to identify Table 2. Number of patterns for ten topics with different constraints applied in the test set frequent sequential patterns Topic # docs       0  2      0  2   a m p  p r u n i n g  110 491 9,977 5,784 5,252 120 415 5,395 3,933 2,959 130 307 4,128 1,948 1,845 140 432 16,688 4,007 3,227 150 371 8,492 5,022 3,646 160 199 4,032 2,060 1,929 170 507 12,239 6,649 4,745 180 426 26,098 2,023 1,794 190 337 4,382 2,780 2,085 200 277 3,227 1,996 1,251 Total 3,762 94,658 36,202 28,733 Avg. P/R 0.409 0.406 0.443  w h e r e    i s  a  m i n _ s u p  Therefore, the higher the figures of both precision and recall curves, the more effective the system is. The P/R breakeven point indicates the value at which precision equals recall. The larger the measure scores the better the system performs. The precision of top-K returned documents is another important measure which refers to the relative value of relevant documents in the first K returned document The results of P/R breakeven point of ten topics are listed in Table 2, which shows that the improvement is achieved by using PTM with pruning. As the min_sup  increases, the average value of P/R breakeven point of ten topics reduces slightly from 0.409 to 0.406. This Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE means that the effects of these pruned patterns are not significant since their supports are relatively smaller than the remained patterns. The performance is obviously enhanced by applying the pruning scheme as we can see the measure of P/R breakeven value increased from 0.406 to 0.443. This is caused by the fact that the noises of meaningless patterns are reduced as they are pruned. By using combination of min_sup and pruning scheme as constraints, we can not only save computation time but also improve the accuracy Table 3 shows the precision of top-20 returned documents on each topic. It is obvious that the PTM-2 outperforms other three models as far as the average P/R breakeven point concerned. However, the measure of PTM-1 is even lower than the result of the keywordbased model Pr. The reason is that the  overfitting   caused by the meaningless patterns of PTM-1 influences the effectiveness of the system. Thus, in order to enhance the performance, the pruning scheme is required to be a part of the pattern-based models Table 3. Precision/Recall breakeven point for the ten topics  Topic tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   110 0.161 0.226 0.419 0.548   120 0.519 0.494 0.570 0.551   130 0.063 0.063 0.063 0.313   140 0.328 0.388 0.373 0.284   150 0.130 0.222 0.111 0.167   160 0.796 0.815 0.759 0.778   170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397  


 170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397   180 0.569 0.611 0.472 0.486   190 0.494 0.553 0.529 0.588   200 0.314 0.372 0.267 0.314   Avg. 0.379 0.413 0.406 0.443  The comparison of average precision of top-20 on ten topics is listed in Table 4. The measures of keyword-based models \(tfidf and pr number of 0.4. Whereas the figures of pattern-based models \(PTM-1 and PTM-2 be over 0.5. This implies that both PTM models improve the precision of the top returned documents Table 4. Average precision of top20 ranked documents on the ten topics  tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   Avg. 0.400 0.406 0.505 0.515  Figure 3 illustrates the effect of introducing the pattern-based methods on the P/R curves on the topic 110, which can represent the trend of all topics. In Figure 3, as the PTM models are applied, their P/R curves lift up and indicate the improvement of performance made by the PTM models 6. Related work and conclusion Mining sequential patterns has been extensively studied in data mining community since the first research work in [1]. The earlier studies which focused on the large size of retail datasets have developed several Apriorilike algorithms in order to solve the problem of discovering sequential patterns from such databases However, the Apriori-like algorithms only perform well in databases consisting of short frequent sequences [17 This is caused by the fact that it is quite time-consuming to generate nTerms sequences candidates from \(n1 disadvantage of Apriori-like algorithms [1], a variety of algorithms such as PrefixSpan [17], SPADE [25 SLPMiner [22] and GST [12] have been proposed. In order to improve the efficiency, each algorithm pursues a different method of discovering frequent sequential patterns, which makes them featured by the capability of mining such patterns without even generating any candidates With respect to the representation of the content of documents, some research works have used phrases rather than individual words [21]. However, the effectiveness of the text mining systems was not improved very much. The likely reason is that, a phrasebased method has  lower consistency of assignment and lower document frequency for terms  21]. Hence, in this paper, we present a novel concept for mining text documents for sequential patterns. Instead of using single words, we use pattern-based taxonomy to represent documents. By pruning meaningless patterns which have been proven to be the source of the  noise   in this study, the problem of  overfitting  is solved and the experimental results which show the encouraging outcomes are achieved 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Recall Pr e c is 


is io n PTM-2 PTM-1 Pr tfidf Figure 3. Precision/Recall curves on Topic110 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Some future research works can be conducted based on the results of this research. To improve the accuracy one major direction is to extract and use the interesting information from negative or unlabeled documents. The weighting scheme of discovered patterns can then be optimized References 1] R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant  Mining sequential patterns  Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Data engineering \(ICDE  95 pp. 3-14 2] H. Ahonen, O. Heinonen, M. Klemettinen, and A I. Verkamo  Applying data mining techniques for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections  Proceedings of the IEEE Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries \(ADL  98 1998, pp. 2-11 3] M. L. Antonie and O. R. Zaiane  Text document categorization by term association  ICDM02 Maebashi City, Japan, 2002, pp. 19-26 4] Y. Bi, T. Anderson, S. McClean  A rough set model with ontologies for discovering maximal association rules in document collection   Knowledge-Based Systems vol.16, 2003, pp. 243251 5] G. Chang, M.J. Healey, J. A. M. McHugh, and J T. L. Wang, Mining the World Wide Web: an information search approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001, pp. 192 6] D. A. Evans, et al., CLARIT experiments in batch filtering: term selection and threshold optimization in IR and SVM Filters, TREC02 2002 7] R. Feldman, et al  Text mining at the term level  Lecture Notes in AI 1510: Principle of data mining and knowledge discovery, SpringerVerlag, 1998, pp. 65-73 8] R. Feldman and H. Hirsh  Mining associations in text in presence of background knowledge   KDD96, 1996, pp. 343-346 9] D. A. Grossman and O. Frieder, Information retrieval algorithms and heuristics, Kluwer Academic publishers, Boston, 1998 10] K. M. Hammouda and M. S. Kamel  Phrasebased document similarity based on an index graph model  Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 pp. 203-210 11] J. D. Holt and S. M. Chung  Multipass algorithms for mining association rules in text databases  Knowledge and Information Systems vol.3, 2001, pp. 168-183 12] Y. Huang and S. Lin  Mining sequential patterns using graph search techniques  Proceedings of the 27th Annual Int. Computer Software and Applications Conf. \(COMPSAC  03 2003, pp. 4-9 13] Y. Li, C. Zhang, and J. R. Swan  An information filtering model on the Web and its application in 


filtering model on the Web and its application in JobAgent  Knowledge-based Systems 13\(5 2000, pp. 285-296 14] B. Liu, Y. Dai, X. Li, W. S. Lee, and P. S. Yu  Building text classifiers using positive and unlabeled examples  ICDM03, 2003, pp. 179186 15] B. Liu, Y. Ma, and Philip S. Yu, Discovering business intelligence information by comparing company Web sites, in: N. Zhong, J. Liu and Y Y. Yao \(eds  Web Intelligence  SpringerVerlag, 2003, pp. 105-127 16] J. Mostafa, W. Lam, and M. Palakal  A multilevel approach to intelligent information filtering: model, system, and evaluation  ACM Transactions on Information Systems 15\(4 1997, pp. 368-399 17] J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, H. Pinto, Q Chen, U. Dayal, and M. Hsu  PrefixSpan Mining sequential patterns efficiently by prefixprojected pattern growth  Proceedings of Int Conf. on Data Engineering \(ICDE  02 Heidelberg, Germany, 2001, pp. 215-224 18] M. F. Porter  An algorithm for suffix stripping   Program 14\(3 19] S. Robertson and I. Soboroff, The TREC 2002 Filtering Track Report, NIST Special Publication: SP 500-251 \(TREC-2002 20] T. Rose, M. Stevenson, and M. Whitehead  The Reuters Corpus Volume1 - From yesterday  s news to today  s language resources  Proceedings of the 3rd Inter. Conf. on Language Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Spain 2002 21] F. Sebastiani  Machine learning in automated text categorization  ACM Computing Surveys Vol. 34, No.1, 2002, pp. 1-47 22] M. Seno and G. Karypis  SLPMiner: An algorithm for finding frequent sequential patterns using length-decreasing support constraint   Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int. Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 23] P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  TSP: Mining top-K closed sequential patterns  ICDM03 2003, pp. 347-354 24] X. Yan, J. Han, and R. Afshar  CloSpan: mining closed sequential patterns in large datasets   Proceedings of SIAM Int. Conf. on Data Mining SDM 03 177 25] M. Zaki  SPADE: An efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences  Machine Learning vol. 40, 2001, pp. 31-60 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


