A New Method for Image Classification by Using Multilevel Association Rules Vincent S. Tseng   Ming-Hsiang Wang   Ja-Hwung Su Institute of Computer Science and Information Engineering National Cheng Kung University Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C Email: tsengsm@mail.ncku.edu.tw Abstract With the popularity of multimedia applications the huge amount of image and video related to real life have led to the proliferation of emerging storage techniques. Contented-based image retrieval and classification have become attractive issues in the last few years. Most researches concerning image classification focus primarily on low-level image features \(e.g. color, texture, shape, etc.\ and ignore the conceptual associations among the objects in the images. In this paper, we propose a new image classification method by using multiple-level association rules based on the image objects. The approach we proposed can be decomposed of three phases: \(1\ building of conceptual object hierarchy 2\ discovery of classification rules, and \(3 classification and prediction of images. At the first phase, we use a hierarchical clustering method to build the conceptual hierarchy based on the low-level features of image objects. At the second phase, we devise a multi-level mining algorithm for finding the image classification rules. The classification task is performed at the last phase Empirical evaluations show that our approach performs better than other approaches in terms of classification accuracy 1. Introduction For the past few years, due to the popularity of multimedia applications and Internet, the capacity of data storage increases rapidly and more and more digital multimedia datum related to our life are produced. To handle the huge amount of multimedia information, multimedia data retrieval has become an emerging research issue. In order to solve the problems of data retrieval, Content-Based Image Retrieval \(CBIR\e the focus of the research in these years    a sed on the m u ltim edia features like Color  Texture and Shape the systems such as QBIC a n d V i sualSee k [18], can effectively classify, index and retrieve multimedia data. Image classification is a very important issue in supporting CBIR and various multimedia applications. Through the effective classification method, we can organize large amount of multimedia data well. Furthermore, it can greatly help construct the multimedia databases and improve the performance of multimedia data mining One of the new techniques for image classification is data mining. Basically, image association rules are generated by analyzing their properties, such as object analysis, image feature extraction and training on classified images for building the correct category model      this way, the unclassified images can be automatically classified by generated association rules. For the past few years, there exist many approaches concerning image classification but most of them focus on using image feature extraction to find the classification rules by using methods like SVM and Decision Tree  fact the semantics of a whole image can not be represented by segmentation and low-level features of an image only. From human viewpoint, taking advantage of the hierarchical relationships among the image objects is an effective way for image classification For example, both of yellow dogs and black dogs are considered as belonged to the dog category Furthermore, the pets category includes yellow dog black dog, yellow cat and white cat. The association rules describing the hierarchical relationships among the objects will help us classify the image in the way closer to human\220s viewpoint. In previous researches Hierarchical Association Ru  has been found useful for discovering the associations among hierarchical objects in applications like market basket analysis. In this paper we propose a new image classification method by using multilevel association rules. Our method can be decomposed into three phases Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


1 Segment an image into several objects and extract features from them, then automatically construct a hierarchical feature tree of image objects by hierarchical clustering 2 Generate the generalized association rules from those segmented objects by using multilevel association rule mining methods. Here, we use a method improved on CBA \(Classification Based on Associations   m e thod 3 Classify the newly input images automatically through the gene rated association rules The remaining of this paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we describe briefly the past researches and related work. Section 3 describes the proposed Multilevel Association Rule Mining-based image classification method in details. Experimental evaluation results are illustrated in Section 4. Finally the conclusions and future work are given in section 5 2. Related Work At the present days, most of the image retrieval systems hunt the images by the queried text information. There exist some problems in this kind of image retrieval approach. For example, different fferent text requisitions may want to capture the same images in fact. That is to say, it is fficult to make correct responses to the queries requested from different kinds of users. Thus another way to deal with the image retrieval is to adopt the features vector for indexing the images. It is an interesting issue to search images on the basis of the contents of images, namely CBIR Content-Base Image Retrieval advantage of the image features like color, shape texture and location to organize and index the images The representative systems include QBIC by IBM  V i ra ge sys tem by V i rage Inc P h otobook System  by MIT Media LAB, etc   Li et al utilizes 2-D HMM \(Hidden Markov Model\rform the binary classification The 2-D HMM employs features of segmentations and relationships of these segmentations such that the constructed model can discriminate between manual and natural segmentations in one picture. In 1988, Szummer et al  pr opose d anothe r bina ry classification approach, called KNN \(K-Nearest Neighbor\o do the binary classification. It segments an image into several objects and then extracts features form them through the DCT Discrete Cosine Transform\patial coordinate of color. The classification tree proposed by Huang et al  us ed t o  produce t h e classi fication m odel  for classifying the images. Carson et al 4   proposed efficient ways for representing a decision tree in capturing the images. In their approach, the images are divided into several objects, called blobs and every blob contains two features, namely color and texture. By making use of the features, the distance between any two blobs is computed in constructing the decision tree. Aghbari et al   exploits hill-climbing [15 and SVM Sup port V ector Machine\o segment a image into several objects and perform the image classification by the four vector features extracted from these objects, namely color histogram, edge direction histogram higher-order autocorrelation edge vector and dual-tree complex wavelet. Out of multiple-concept-level data, several studies    were also m a de i n  proposing M u lti-level Association Rule Mining method to discover the implicit generalized association rules from concept taxonomy. The goal of this approach is to perform the top-down deepening search progressively and to explore \215level-crossing\216 association relationships. In general, the combination of content-based retrieval and multi-level association mining discussed in this paper presents a new approach for the better image classification with higher prediction power  3. The Proposed Method The proposed method consists of two steps as depicted in Figure 1 1. Construction of Hierarchical Feature Trees  Construct each hierarchical feature tree in terms of features like color, texture, and shape extracted from the image objects 2. Mining of Classification Rules  Mine the association rules from the hierarchical feature tree established in step 1 by using the multi-level association rules mining method Thus, the class of new images can be predicted by using the classification rules mined Figure 1. Workflow of the proposed method Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


In conducting image-object-based multi-level association rules mining, we need the hierarchical tree of image objects. Therefore, we proposed a method to construct the multiple levels tree. First, we segment each image into several objects and extract their features by some specific methods. Then  we construct a tree by using a hierarchical clustering method improved on CURE me The n, we  find the Large Itemsets among the image objects by using multi-level association mining method. At last the class of each large itemsets is generated to produce the complete classification rules by using a way similar to CBA For a ne w image to be classified, the generated association rules are deployed to determine the most relevant class for the image efficiently and automatically 3.1. Construction of Hierarchical Feature Tree The construction of hierarchical feature tree can be divided into two steps 1 Extract the objects and their features from the images 2 Construct the hierarchical feature tree by performing hierarchical clustering 3.1.1. Extraction of Image objects and Features In our method, we need to analyze each image to find the objects contained in it and extract three features of each object, namely color, shape, and texture. Since the issue of feature extraction is not the focus in this work, we just adopted the public software to achieve the goal of image objects analysis and feature extraction. In this work, we use the tool provided by Blobworld system http://elib.cs.berkeley.edu/photos/blobworld  Blobworld is a CBIR \(Content-Based Image Retrieval\em developed by UC Berkeley Digital Library Project. This system could automatically segment an image into several objects, getting their features and positions, and make use of the objects for image query. The Blobworld system provides both functions of image objects segmentation and image query. In this research we only employ image object segmentation and feature extraction in it. The Blobworld system views similar regions of an image as an object called blob and the feature values of each blob, like color, shape and texture are extracted accordingly 3.1.2. Hierarchical Feature Tree After objects segmentation and features extraction are done, we need to construct a hierarchical feature tree for all objects to support the mining of multi-level association rules. However, it is difficult to construct one single hierarchical objects tree for all images with different features of an image object such as color, shape, and texture considered simultaneously For example, suppose that there are three objects: a yellow cat, a yellow dog, and a black dog. If we classify them by color, yellow cat and yellow dog should be of the same class, and black dog belongs to another class. However, when shape feature is considered, black dog and yellow dog should be of the same class and yellow cat belongs to another class. Hence, it is hard to construct a single hierarchical objects tree for all these features Furthermore, each feature has its special meaning and dimension so that the way to calculate the distance between two features is different, too Hence, it is necessary to construct a hierarchical feature tree for each feature and then map the image objects on the hierarchical feature trees, as illustrated in figure 2 For each feature tree, we design an effective clustering method based on CURE [8 do t h e hierarchical clustering. In CURE clustering method given a parameter k each node is set to be a cluster and it combines two clusters with the shortest distance into one. Then, the combination is repeated until the cardinality of clusters is equal to k However there is a critical problem when it is applied for constructing the hierarchical feature tree. That is, if each node of the tree recorded by CURE clustering is viewed as a cluster, it is meaningless for those generated association rules. For example, if there are twenty thousand objects, each feature may have twenty thousand different values, such as twenty thousand colors, twenty thousand shapes and twenty thousand textures. Among these twenty thousand different colors, there might exist two colors which are very similar in terms of their values. Therefore the multi-level association mining does not work if we exploit every different color to be a leaf node in color hierarchical feature tree. Hence, we modify the CURE clustering method in constructing each hierarchical feature tree. The final k clusters are our real needs and the intermediate hierarchical relation of clustering is out of our consideration. That is to say, what we need is just the hierarchical relation between clusters Figure 2. An example hierarchical feature tree Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


In order to solve the above problem, we do the following modifications on the CURE method Given a parameter k the initial process is performed the same as CURE method until the cardinality of the clusters is larger than k in constructing a hierarchical feature tree. Once the cardinality of the clusters is equal to k the representative nodes of all clusters are recorded as leaf nodes in hierarchical feature tree. In this way, there will be k leaf nodes in the tree. Then the hierarchical clustering process is repeated for choosing the two closest clusters and combining them to form one new cluster. The new cluster becomes the parent node of two small old clusters and they are inserted into the hierarchical feature tree The complete algorithm for constructing the hierarchical feature tree is as shown in Figure 3 Figure 3. Algorithm for constructing hierarchical feature tree 3.2. Mining of Classification Rules  After the construction of hierarchical feature tree, we employ the multi-level association mining approach to generate the classification rules. This procedure is decomposed into three steps Step 1 Map the image objects on the hierarchical feature tree Step 2 Make use of the multi-dimensional multi-level association mining method to discover the classification rules Step 3.Classify and predict the new un-classified images by the classification rules generated at step 1 3.2.1. Mapping image objects on hierarchical feature tree This step maps each image objects on the leaf nodes of the hierarchical tree we constructed as data pre-processing for hierarchical association rules mining. Each node of every hierarchical feature tree is first encoded using pre-constructed taxonomy and each image objects is mapped onto the specific code of leaf node in the hierarchical feature tree. After mapping, each image can be viewed as an image transaction. As shown in Table 1, image 1 contains three objects, namely A, B and C, and the mapping result is as shown in Table 2. The three hierarchical feature trees are constructed as depicted in Figure 2  Table 1. The image transaction table Image Object  Image 1 ObjectA \(color3-1, shape3-2, texture3-4 ObjectB \(color3-1, shape3-2, texture3-1 ObjectC \(color3-2, shape3-2, texture3-3 Table 2. Mapping result Image Object Image I 11,12,11 ObjectC\(12,12,21 3.2.2. Multi-dimensional Multi-level Association Mining for Classification Rules The process of mining classification rules can be divided into two steps Step 1 Generation of large itemsets: discover all large itemsets that exceed the specified support threshold using multi-dimension multi-level association mining method Step 2 Construction of classification rules: generate the association rules viewed as classification rules by improved CBA method from the discovered large itemsets In step 1, it is on the basis of the two-dimensional multi-level association mining n d we  expa nd it to the multi-dimensional multi-level association mensions is decided by the cardinality of extracted features. In this paper we primarily extracted three features, namely color shape and texture. That is, we adopted three-dimensional multi-level association mining to generate the large itemsets. The complete algorithm is illustrated in Figure 4 Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


In this algorithm, the function gen_candidate\(k used to generate the candidate k-itemsets, which contain k items. When k is equal to 1, that function will generate all candidate 1-itemsets by calculating the bottom level features of three trees \(Tt.level Tc.level, Ts.level\Otherwise, the candidate k-itemsets is generated from the large \(k-1\msets Function com_Large\(k\tilizes candidate k-1\sets to discover large k-itemsets, whose supports are larger than minimum support set by users Figure 4. Multi-dimension multi-level association rule mining algorithm After the generation of all large itemsets is done the probability of belonging to the specific class for every large itemset is calculated by using a CBA-based method. Through the probability reasoning, the construction of classification rules is then generated. That is, each large itemset constitutes a classification rule. For example, suppose a large itemset A is composed of \(221, 222, 1212 122,111, 2212\ is, this is a large 2-itemsets 122 ,111, 2212\. Among ten classified images containing this pattern, six belong to Animal class, two belong to Plant class and the other two belong to Scenic class. Consequently, the probability of class membership for the large itemset A is depicted in Table 3 Table 3. The probability of large itemset A Large Itemset Support Class Prob  Animal 0.6 Plant 0.2 221,222,1212 122,111,2212 5 Scenic 0.2 3.2.3. Classification of New Images In this section, we describe how to classify and predict unclassified images automatically by using the classification rules obtained through the multi-dimensional multi-level association rules mining. First of all, we segment an unknown image into several objects and extracted their feature values by Blobworld system. Next, we map them on the hierarchical feature tree constructed and then the classification rules are searched for matching the unknown image. Because the length of large itemset and the support value are both critical factors for the probability of classification rules, the length, support and every class probability of the large itemset are multiplied together to find the most possible class that image should belong to As an example, for a simple instance, suppose the unclassified image has the large itemsets as shown in Table 4  Table 4. Large itemsets of an unclassified image Large Itemset Support Class Prob Animal 0.30 Plant 0.125 221,222,1212 122,111,2212 111,121,1121 20 Scenic 0.57 Animal 0.28 Plant 0.05 212,221,12 122,111,22 50 Food 0.66 According to our method described previously the probability that image belongs to different classes is as follows 1 Animal Class P Animal Class\ = \(3*20*0.3\ + \(2*50*0.28 46.6 2 Plant Class P  Plant Class  3*20*0.125\ + \(2*50*0.05 12.7 3 Scenic Class P  Scenic Class  3*20*0.57 = 34.2 4 Food Class P  Food Class  2*50*0.66 = 66 Consequently, we determine that the image belongs to food class because it bears the highest probability. Therefore, the image is classified into the Food class 4. Experimental Evaluation We have described the new approach for image classification we proposed in the previous section Now we describe the results in evaluating the performance of proposed method by experiments using real image data. We have also tuned the minimum support in multilevel association rules, k value in the clustering and the cardinality of image objects and extracted features. Through tuning these parameters, the proposed method was compared with general decision tree method \(J48\nd SVM. The experiments were implemented in C++ on a Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


Pentium-4 1.6GHz personal computer with 256 MB RAM running on Windows 2000 Server  4.1. Experimental Data The image data in our experiments are from Corel Gallery Professional Image Library, which contain several types of images including signs, backgrounds icons and so on. We choose ten thousand images from one million images as datasets for our experiments. We choose the images with classes as shown in Table 5 from Corel Gallery image library manually and the size of each image is 192*128 or 128*192 For the performance index, we defined two measures, the Precision and Coverage for the classification tasks. The definitions of Precision and Coverage are illustrated as follows  agesedicted CorrectC ecision ImPr _ Pr 000 agesTested agesedicted Coverage Im ImPr 000 Precision represents the ratio of the cardinality for correctly classified images to the cardinality of classified images Coverage indicates anther ratio for the cardinality of classified images to the cardinality of all tested images. For example, given ten tested images, if eight images are successfully predicted and five images are correctly classified from the eight predicted images, the Precision is 5/8 = 62.5 and the Coverage is 8/10 = 80 4.2. Experimental Results In the first experiment, we evaluate the number of rules and classification precision under different minimum support setting in our proposed multi-dimensional multi-level association mining method. We varied the minimum support from 0.001 to 0.05 and observed the variation of quantity of mined rules and the precision measure for image classification. As shown in figure 5, nearly 6,000 classification rules are generated when the minimum support is 0.005 and the quantity of the classification rules raises to nearly 40,000 when the minimum support is 0.001. However, when the minimum support is smaller than 0.05, the number of produced classification rules is less than 100. Compared with figure 6, when the minimum support is 0.001, the classification precision is close to 55%. Though the classification rules are much less than 40,000 as the minimum support setting is 0.005, its classification precision is maintained at nearly 50%. When minimum support is raised to 0.05, the mined classification rules are extremely few. Hence, the classification precision degrades to nearly 10 As shown in figure 7, when the minimum support is less than 0.005, the classification coverage is as good as 100%. This is because that most images will be covered by the classification rules generated by the mining algorithm when higher-level classification rules are produced. Notice that the coverage is still close to 90% even when the minimum support is raised to 0.05 Table 5. The image classes in experiments Image Class Number Descriptor Animal 1900 dog, bird, and fish, etc Transportation 1200 Car, airplane and boat,  etc Structure 1700 Building People 1500 All kinds people Plant 1100 Tree and flower etc Scenic 900 Mountain, cloud and sea etc Food 600 All kinds food Insect 300 All kinds insect Artifact 800 All kinds of artifacts Besides, we process our experimental data by another feature extraction program, namely the XM software provided by MPEG-7 official website http://www.lis.e-technik.tu-muenchen.de/research/b v/topics/mmdb/e_mpeg7.html\This program does not perform the image object segmentation, so the feature values are extracted from the whole image directly. We utilized six features and submitted them to the Decision Tree and SVM modules for classifications. These six features are ColorStructure ColorLayout, RegionShape, ScalableColor Homogeneous and EdgeHistogram. The Decision Tree used here is J48, which is included in WEKA based on C4.5 decision algorithm. Finally, we compare the performance results with the proposed multilevel association mining method with minimum support set as 0.002 Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


Figure 5  Number of Patterns under different minimum support settings Figure 6. Precision at different support values Figure 7. Coverage at different minimum support settings Figure 8 illustrates the precisions of the proposed method, J48 and SVM. Obviously, the proposed method delivers higher precision than J48 and SVM when the feature leaf nodes are more than 50, with improvement rate around 15%. A noteworthy point is that only three image features, namely color, shape and texture, are used in our method although more features can be absorbed in our method. Hence, it is expectable that our method can deliver even higher accuracy in classification if more kinds of image features are incorporated Figure 8. Comparisons of Precision 5. Conclusions and Future Work  In this paper, we have proposed a new method to construct the image classification rules by using the hierarchical association relations among the image objects. The experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms other classification methods like C4.5 and SVM in terms of classification accuracy even though only three kinds of image features are considered. The main techniques for the proposed method are as follows 1 Construction of Hierarchical Feature Tree Construct the hierarchical structure of objects based on the extracted low-level features Color, Texture and Shape\ conducting multilevel clustering on image objects  2 Mining of Classification Rules By utilizing the hierarchical features tree constructed, we devise a multi-dimensional multi-level association mining method to find the large itemsets. Furthermore, a CBA \205based method is designed to predict the class for new images In the future, we will explore the following issues from the viewpoint of data mining 1. In extraction of image object features, we will consider more feature vectors to achieve more rich multi-dimensional multi-level association mining so as to increase classification precision further 2. The task of object segmentation in Blobworld system leaves room for improvement. We shall integrate other more effective methods for improving further the accuracy. Therefore, we can increase classification precision by complete objects segmentation 3. Since the proposed multi-dimensional multi-level association mining method is based on Apri incurs high execution cost. W e  will do further enhancement on the algorithm improve the execution performance  Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This research was supported by Ministry of Economic Affairs, R.O.C., under grant no 92-EC-17-A-02-51-024 References  Zaher Aghba ri and Akifum i Makinouchi 215Semantic Approach to Image Database Classification and Retrieval,\216 NII Journal no. 7 September, 2003  R. Agrawal, T   Im ielinkski and A Swa m i 215Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases,\216 Proc. of ACM SIGMOD  pages 207-216, May 1993  A Barla, F  Odone a nd A. V e rriOl d 215 F as hioned State-of-the-Art Image Classification,\216 ICIAP 2003  Chad Ca rs on Ser ge Belongi e, Hayit Greenspa n and Jitendra Malik, "Color- and Texture-based Image Segmentation Using the Expectation-Maximization Algorithm and Its Application to Content-Based Image Retrieval Int. Conf. Computer Vision Bombay, India, Jan 1998  Chad Ca rs on Ser ge Belongi e, Hayit Greenspa n and Jitendra Malik, \215Blobworld: Image Segmentation Using Expectation-Maximization and Its Application to Image Querying,\216 IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 24\(8\026-1038, August 2002  S. F. Cha ng W. C h en H. J. Meng, H. Sundaram  and D. Zhong, \215A Fully Automated Content-Based Video Search Engine Supporting Spatiotemporal Queries,\216 IEEE Transactions on Circuit and Systems for Video Technology Vol. 8 No. 5, September 1998  M. Flickner, H. Sa whne y, J As hley, Q Huang,B.Dom, M. Gorkani J. Hafner, D. Lee, D Petkovic, D. Steele, and P. Yanker, \215Query By 216 IEEE Computer Magazine Sep. 1995  S Fortin a n d L   Liu, \215 A n Object-ori ented Approach to Multi-level Association Rule Mining,\216 Proc. of the International Conf. on Information and Knowledge Management CIKM\22096\, ACM Press November 12-16 Rockville, Maryland, USA. 1996  S Guha R. R a stogi, and K. Shim 215CURE: An Efficient Clustering Algorithm for Large Databases,\216 In ACM-SIGMOD International Conference Management of Data p.p. 73-84 1998  J. Ha n a n d Y  F u  215Discove ry of  Multiple-Level Association Rules from Large Databases,\216 Proc. of the 21 st VLDB Conference Zurich, Switzerland 1995  J. Ha n a n d Y  F u  215Discove ry of  Multiple-Level Association Rules in Large Databases,\216 IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering Vol. 11, No. 5 September/October 1999  Jing Hua n g Ravi Kum a r  and Ram in Zabih  215An Automatic Hierarchical Image Classification Scheme,\216 ACM Multimedia 1998  Z. Kato, J Zerubia, a nd M. Be rthod  Unsupervised parallel image classification using a hierarchical Markovian model," 1995 IEEE 5th International Conferen ce on Computer Vision pp 169--174, Lo s Alamitos, 1995  J.Li, A. Na jm i, and R M.Gray 215 I m a ge  classification by a two-dimension hidden Markov model,\216 IEEE Transaction on Signal Processing  48, no. 2, pp. 517-533, February 2000  Ze-Nia n Li Osm ar R. Zaiane, a n d Zinovi  Tauber 215 Illumination Invariance and Object Model in Content-Based Image and Video Retrieval,\216 Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation Academis Press. Vol. 10 No. 3, pp. 219-244, 1999  Bing Liu W y nne Hs u Y i m i ng Ma  Integrating Classification and Association Rule Mining Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD-98, full paper New York, USA 1998  T. Ohashi, Z. Ag hbari, A. Makinouchi 215Hill-Climbing Algorithm for Efficient Color-Based Image Segmentation,\216 IASTED Int\220l Conf. On Signal Processing, Pattern Recognition and Applications \(SPPRA 2003 Rhodes, Greece June, 2003  J.R.Sm ith and S-F.Chang 215VisualSEEK A fully automated content-based image query system,\216 ACM Multimedia Conf Nov. 1996  M. Szummer and R.W Picard 215Indoor-Outdoor Image Classification,\216 IEEE International Workshop on Content-based Access of Image and Video Databases, in conjunction with ICCV'98 Bombay, India, 1998  S. M. T s e n g and C   F  Chiu, \215Mi ning Multi-Level and Location-Aware Associated Service Patterns in Mobile Environments,\216 IEEE Transactions on Systems  Man and Cybernetics \205 Part B Vol. 34, No. 6, December, 2004 Proceedings of the 21st International Conf erence on Data Engineering \(ICDE \22205 1084-4627/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


on the intention to use self- and e-assessment center as well as the influence of PQI, PCS and PTS on PU it might represent a single example for a specific economy, country or cultural region . There might be differences for the intention of different informnation systems with different settings. Future research should discuss this issue more detailed  Furthermore our questionnaire was just answered by large-scale corporations in Germany. So our results might not be directly transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises  In addition, as we collected our data from participants at the same time using the same survey our results may be affected by common method varian  6. Conclusion  Self-assessment and e-assessment as online games in staff recruiting are a valuable solution for companies to support on the one side their employer branding activities and on the other side the selection of the favored candidate. The case study of our papers shows that companies can generate more qualified applications and concurrently save time and money. Based on these findings our empirical research with 191 of the Top-1000 companies of Germany provide statistical evidence that perceived quality improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings are the main reasons beside perceived usefulness and ease of use why companies intend to use self- and e-assessment in their recruiting processes  References   Bago zzi  R  P   T h e Ro l e  of M easu r e m en t i n T h eo ry Construction and Hypothesis Testing: Toward a Holistic Model", in: Conceptual and Theoretical Developments in Marketing, O.C. Ferrell, S.W. Brown and C.W. Lamb eds.\ago, pp. 15-32, 1979 2 Ba g o z z i R  P  a n d Y i  Y   O n t h e Ev a l ua tio n of  Structural Equation Models", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science \(16\pp 74-94, 1988 3 Ba rtra m  D Testing on the Internet: Issues Challenges and Opportunities in the field of Occupational Assessments in: D. Bartram, and R.K. Hambleton \(eds Computer-Based Testing and the Internet: Issues and Advances, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, England 2006 4 B r o w n, S  A  a nd Ve nk a t e s h V  Model of Adoption of Technology in Households: A Baseline Model Test and Extension Incorporating Household Life Cycle MIS Quarterly \(29:3\pp.399-426, 2005  Bu zzetto M o r e N A   and A l ad e A  J   Best Practices in e-Assessment Journal of Information Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 251-269 6 Ca lig iuri P  M., a n d P h i llips J.M An application of self-assessment realistic job previews to expatriate assignments The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 2003, Vol. 14, No. 7, pp. 11021116 7 Ca rm ine s E. G  Ze lle r R A  1979 Re lia bil ity a nd Validity Assessment. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications 8 Ca s c io, W  F A pplie d P s y c ho log y in H u m a n Re s ourc e  Management, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliffs, NJ, 1998 9 Cha p p e ll, D Ea t oug h V D a v i e s M.N  O  a n d  Griffiths, M EverQuest It s Just a Comupter Game Right? An Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis of Online Gaming Addicition International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 205-216 10 C h in, W  W  T he P a rtia l L e a s t Squa re s A pproa c h to  Structural Equation Modelling", in: Modern methods for business research, G.A. Marcoluides \(ed.\, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, London, pp. 295-336, 1998 11 Ch in, W  W  F re que ntly A s k e d Q u e s tions  Partial Least Squares & PLS-Graph", 2000 12 hill J. R a n d G ilbe r t, A  A P a ra dig m  f o r Developing Better Measures of Marketing Constructs  Journal of Marketing Research 15 \(2\pp. 77-94, 1979 13 C o n nol ly T a nd Sta n s f ie ld M  Using GamesBased eLearning Technologies in Overcoming Difficulties in Teaching Information Systems Journal of International Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 459-476 14 D a v i s  F. D   1 9 89  P e r c e i v e d U s ef ulne s s  P e r c e i v e d Ease of Use and User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly, 13:3, pp. 319-339 15 D o ll, W  J A  H e ndric k s on, a n d X  D e ng  Using Davis s Perceived Usefulness and Ease-of-use Instruments for Decision Making: A Confirmatory and Multigroup Invariance Analysis  Decision Sciences 29\(4\, 1998, pp 839-869 16 Eis e n h a r dt, K   M. \(1 98 9 ilding T h e o rie s f r om Ca s e  Study Research, Academy of Management Review, 14, 4 532-550 17  Fa e r be r, F  K e im T a nd W e itz e l T  An Automated Recommendation Approach to Personnel Selection  In: Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems; Tampa 18  Fe ng M H e ff e r na n, N  T a nd K o e d ing e r, K  R  Addressing the Testing Challenge with a Web-Based EAssessment System that Tutors as it Assesses  Proceedings of the 15th international conference on World Wide Web, Edinburgh, Scotland, 2006, pp. 307-316 19  For n e ll, C a n d L a rc ke r, D F E v a lua ting S t ruc tura l  Equitation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Errors", Journal of Marketing Research, 18 pp. 39-50, 1981 20 G e org e  D I., a nd Sm ith, M.C An Empirical Comparison of Self-Assessment and Organizational Assessment in Personnel Selection Public Personnel Management, 1990, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 175-190 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


21 G r iff iths, M.D., Da v i e s  M.N.O., a nd Cha p p e ll, D  Breaking the Stereotype: The Case of Online Gaming  CyberPsychology & Behavior. January 1, 2003, Vol 6, No 1, pp. 81-91 22 Hu l l an d  J U se o f P a rtial L e a s t Sq u a res \(P L S  in   Strategic Management Research: A Review of Four Recent Studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20 \(4\, pp. 195204, 1999 23 J o ne s L a nd Fle t c h e r C  Self-assessment in a selection situation: An evaluation of different measurement approaches Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2002, Vol. 75, pp. 145-161 24 K e im T  a nd W e itz e l  T  Strategies for Hiring IT Professionals: An Empirical Analysis of Employer and Job Seeker Behavior on the IT Labor market In: Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS\ulco, Mexico 25 L a um e r S Ec k h a r dt, A a nd W e itz e l T   Recruiting IT Professionals in a Virtual World In: Proceedings of the 12th Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems PACIS 2008\uzhou, China 2 L e e I   The Architecture for a Next-Generation Holistic E-Recruiting System Communications of the ACM, Vol. 50, No. 7, 81-85, 2007 27 L e v i ne E.L Flory  A   a nd A s h, R.A  Selfassessment in personnel selection Journal of Applied Psychology, 1977, Vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 428-435 28  Ma lho t ra Y., a n d G a lle tta D. F Extending the Technology Acceptance Model to Account for Social Influence Theoretical Bases and Empirical Validation  Proceedings of the 32 nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2 Lo u H Lu o  W  and St r ong D  2 00 0   Perceived Critical Mass Effect on Groupware Acceptance  European Journal of Information Systems 9\(2\p.91-103 30 N u nna lly J  C., a nd Be rns t e i n, I. H  Psychometric Theory 3rd ed.\ McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994 31 Phil lips  J.M  Effects of Realistic Job Previews on Multiple Organizational Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis  Academy of Management Journal, 1998, Vol. 41, No. 6 pp. 673-690 3  P o d s ako f f  P   M    M acKen zie S  B  L ee J Y  Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003\. Common Method Bias in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 879-903 33 Ri dg w a y  J Mc Cus k e r, S., a nd P e a d D   Literature Review of e-Assessment Nesta Future Lab, Bristol, UK 2004 3 Ry n e s S  L   Recru i t m en t   Job Choice, and Post-Hire Consequences in: M.D. Dunnette, and L.M. Hough \(eds Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto, CA, 1991 35 Ste i nk ue hle r   C.A  Learning in massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Learning sciences, Santa Monica, California, 2004 36 U nde rw ood J  D  M Ba ny a r d P.E. a n d D a v i e s  M.N.O Students in digital worlds: Lost in Sin City or reaching Treasure Island BJEP Monograph Series II Number 5 - Learning through Digital Technologies Volume 1, Number 1, 1 July 2007 , pp. 83-99 36  Ve nk a t e s h V M o r r i s  M  G  un d A c k e r m a nn P  L   2000 A Longitudinal Field Investigation of Gender Differences in Individual Technology Adoption DecisionMaking Processes Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Vol. 83, Nr. 1, S. 33-60 3 W e i ss E  A    Self-Assessment Communications of the ACM, 1990, Vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 110-132 38 W a rd, M G r uppe n, L a n d Re g e hr, G  Measuring Self-assessment: Current State of the Art Advances in Health Sciences Education, 2002, Vol. 7, pp. 63-80 39 Y i n, R. K  20 03 s e Stu d y R e s e a r c h D e s i g n a nd Methods, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, London New Dehli Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


