 1 Data Mining and Service Rating in Service-Oriented Architectures to Improve Information Sharing 12   Ying Chen, Brad Cohen Booz Allen Hamilton 8251 Greensboro Drive McLean, VA 22102 chen_ying@bah.com, cohen_brad@bah.com 703-902-5000    1  0-7803-8870-4/05/$20.00 2005 IEEE  2  IEEEAC paper #1397, Version 7 Updated January 27, 2005  Abstract The evolution of  Web Services and Service 
Oriented Architectures \(SOA\ed removal of many technological barriers that have historically limited information sharing across the United States Intelligence Community \(IC decade, Internet and web technologies have facilitated th e exponential growth of data and information available creating information overload and forcing the need for tools to manage information.  Just as the Internet brought about information overload, the growth in development and deployment of services will lead to service overload in the coming decade. To address the challenge, this paper proposes an extended SOA 
infrastructure to facilitate service discovery and automate service orchestration by using data mining and service rating technologies. Data mining, the process of extracting patterns and knowledge hidden from large volumes of raw data, includes techniques such as classification, clustering association rules, and sequential patterns. Service rating, on the other hand, involves techniques of capturing and incorporating user review and ratings on service performance, effectiveness, and reliability. By applying these technologies to an analytical environment within the 
IC, this paper demonstrates how they can help with service categorization, service di scovery, automated service composition and construction of dynamic Communities of Interest \(COIs\ich empowers analysts to collaboratively solve complex problems  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  S ERVICE O RIENTED A 
RCHITECTURES 2  3  S ERVICE O VERLOAD 3  4  A PPLICATION OF D ATA M INING 4  5  A PPLICATION OF S ERVICE R ATING 7  6  E XTENDED S YSTEM 
A RCHITECTURE 8  7  S UMMARY 9  R EFERENCES 10  B IOGRAPHY 10  1  I NTRODUCTION  To improve the ability to detect terrorists, decipher their plans, and take timely actions to defeat terrorist acts, crossboundary COI integration and collaboration have become of great interest to the Depa 
rtment of Defense \(DOD Intelligence Community, and other Federal and State agencies. With the emergence of SOA, its advantages of maximum interoperability, loos e coupling and ubiquity have been widely recognized. By exposing data, information analytical tools, and algor ithms as web services and executing the services through service orchestration analysts are able to share in formation and collaborate across distributed, heterogeneous Virtual Organizations \(VOs\to solve problems in a dynamic environment. However, as more services become availa ble on the network, analysts 
will face another challenge - service overload.  In the upcoming decade, instead of asking where is the information and where is the analysis tool? analysts will ask what information is relevant and what analysis tools are appropriate  This paper presents an approach that combines Artificial Intelligence \(AI data mining t echnologies, and service rating techniques into SOA infrastructure to meet the challenges. By learning from domain experts interactions and other analysts experiences with various services, the approach will help analysts determine what 


 2 data set most satisfies the immediate problem at hand.  The approach will then be able to suggest a tool or algorithm available on the network and a possible service workflow to analyze the data. By studyi ng service usage patterns of service users, the approach can assist in service clustering and dynamic user grouping as well  The next two sections present an overview of Service Oriented Architecture, explain the limitations of existing SOA enabled problem-solving space when dealing with overloaded services, and describe the business needs in detail. In section 4, we discuss Data Mining technology and different techniques to show how those techniques can be used to tackle the problems of better services discovery and automating service composition. Section 5 presents Service Rating techniques and how to incorporate these techniques into a SOA-enabled system. In addition, we propose an extended SOA infrastructure. We conclude the paper by revisiting the benefits brought by applying Data Mining technology and Service Rating techniques in SOA enabled collaboration system and its future we are envisioning 2  S ERVICE O RIENTED A RCHITECTURES  SOA is a component model that inter-relates different functional units of an application, which are called services  Each service provides a platfo rm-neutral interface contract that allows for service inte raction across distributed and heterogeneous platforms in a uniform and universal manner A service can be made available by publishing the service to a service registry where it ma y be discovered by a service consumer  Publish Service Registry Service Provider Service Consumer Look Up Invoke   Figure 1Service-Oriented Architecture  Web services \(WS\ of standards and techniques to implement a SOA. A web service is a software interface that describes a collection of ope rations that can be accessed over the network through standardized XML messaging Web services can be registered into web service registry and dynamically discovered and bound instead of statically coded by service requester.  Additionally, web services can be dynamically combined into service workflows to handle business-oriented tasks. The loose-coupling capability offered by web services breaks down traditional stovepipe applications and enables flexible and dynamic web services applications  Most of the standards work around web services has been developed by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standa rds \(OASIS\orld Wide Web Consortium \(W3C\he Internet Engineering Task Force \(IETF\ithin these emerging standards, five basic specifications serve as the foundation of the web services protocol stack  Figure 2 Web Services Basic Protocol Stack    Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP lightweight XML-based protocol to exchange structured and typed information among servi    Web Service Definition Language WSDL\ is a language in XML format that describes the abstract functionality of a service as well as provides a framework to describe concrete details of a service. A WSDL document represents an interface contract between service consumer and provi    Universal Discovery, Description, and Integration  UDDI r service registry. It provides data schema to support the description of web services and defines a set of Application Program Interfaces \(API\to support the publication and discovery of web servi    Business Process Execution Language BPEL  is an XML-based language for formal description of business processes and business interaction protocols. It provides a means to orchestrate multiple web services to end-to-end busin    Web Service Remote Portlet WSRP definition of a web servi ce interface for accessing and interacting with interactive presentation-oriented web services.  It allows content to be hosted in one environment for execution while still being easily accessed by other content a ggregators \(for example, a portal  In addition, specifications are being defined around different aspects of web services, including WS-Security WS-SecurityPolicy, WS-Transaction, WS-Eventing and others. All of web services standards are based on XML and      Transports \(HTTP, HTTPS, etc  Composite Business Processes \(BPEL Service Registration and Discovery \(UDDI Service and Message Description \(WSDL Messaging Specifications \(SOAP  User-Facing Services \(WSRP 


 3 are programming language, platform independent. Web services exposed in different environments are able to interoperate with each other smoothly  In Figure 3, we illustrate a Reference Architecture [12 1 3   as a realization of SOA based on web services standards. As portrayed in the diagram, serv ices can be abstracted into five different service blocks   Figure 3 Reference Architecture  Information \(Data ffers an interface to access and interact with single or multiple data assets. Application Service encapsulates algorith ms or business logic \(for example, entity extraction and loan application\ to process input data. Process Service provides a mechanism to orchestrate Information Services and Application Service to work in conjunction for specifi c tasks. User-facing Service on the other hand, visualizes the output from Information Service, Application Servi ce or service flow in an interactive way  The Core Enterprise Services block includes the capabilities of Service Registry, Security, Security Policy, Enterprise Service Management \(ESM\essaging that are responsible for Service Publishing and Discovery, Service Authentication and Authorization, Service Monitoring and Logging, Service Management, and etc. These services are the backbone of the architecture. Services from different service blocks interact with each other in a cooperative manner to provide solutions for business problems 3  S ERVICE O VERLOAD  With the emergence and development of the World Wide Web \(WWW\n 1990s, the Internet has become a vast digital library of text, documents, images, audio and video files.  Billions of websites around the world serve all kinds of information. While Intern et users are excitedly surfing the WWW, they can quickly become overwhelmed by the massive amount of information available, especially when trying to locate something specific. It is very difficult to find the exact information desired, and perhaps more importantly, users cannot tell whether the information discovered is accurate.  This inability to extract required knowledge from an immense quantity of information for one or many reasons is called Information Overload To provide a remedy to this problem, information retrieval and web mining technologies have been widely deployed and used  While users of WWW are still struggling with information overload, the development of SOAs and web services has provided another set of extremely valuable resources to Internet users. Web services are used to expose data sources, algorithms or business logic within Intranet for organization-wide access. Thr ough Extranets, web services can also be utilized by business partners for Business To Business \(B2B\integration. In a dynamic, heterogeneous and collaborative problem-solvi ng space, web services are probably the most appropriate technologies to use because of their basic tenets, interoperability, platform independence and loose-coupling. In addition, web services simplicity and XML-based standards make it much easier for more individuals and companies to adopt and implement. The applicability of web services to a wide variety of functions will lead to a rapid growth of development, deployment and publishing of web services.  Following this trend, just as we encountered Information Overload due to WWW technologies, we will begin to face Service Overload due to Web Services technologies  At that time, web services consumers will start to wonder how to find appropriate services to solve specific problems or answer specific questions When relevant services are found, users will need to iden tify which services are the most accurate and effective. Ev en after individual services have been chosen, users will again need to orchestrate these services to form suitable wo rkflows necessary to solve complex business problems. If a user does not have domain expertise, is there any knowledge about the services or service workflows shared by those who do have the required expertise or at least a similar interest. It is beneficial to foresee thes e issues early and design mechanisms necessary to be included into the SOA infrastructure  Data mining and service rating are two key enabling technologies that can address the service overload problem Data mining techniques can be used to categorize and cluster services, to discover user groups with similar interest and to extract services usage pattern. Service rating techniques incorporate users f eedback of the services based on actual experiences into service profile. The knowledge gained and the information gath ered are then used to guide    Service Blocks Application Services Information Data Process Services BPEL User-Facing Services WSRP Core Enterprise Services Security ESM Messaging Registry \(UDDI 


 4 Figure 4 Typical Data Mini service users and even facilitate intelligence agent formation  4  A PPLICATION OF D ATA M INING  From an academic perspective data mining is a vital step in the process of knowledge discovery in databases \(KDD the goal of which is to identify valid, novel, potentially useful, and ultimately understanda  Once patterns are uncovered, they can be used in a predictive manner for a variety of applications  D ATA M INING   As shown in Figure 4, there are usually several steps in a typical data mining process. The first step is data selection which is to identify and select a subset of the data that is desirable for the data mining algorithm. The second step is to preprocess the data for analysis, which includes data sampling, data formatting, and adapting data based on the requirement of the mining algorithm. The third step is data transformation which often includes unit conversion and value normalization. The forth st ep is to actually mine the data for interesting information, which may involve very different data mining algorithms. The last step is to interpret the information extracted by the mining process. This step is mostly done by a domain expert who will look at the mined information and use his background knowledge  to check if this information is indeed something new, useful, and nontrivial  In a SOA with a large number of services, data mining can be applied to two sets of data. The first is service metadata in the service registry, and th e second is service access logs and pre-gathered user profiles. Accordingly, data mining can be conducted in two distinct ways: Service Mining - the discovery of appropriate services based on service metadata; and Service Usage Mining - the discovery of service associations, servi ce access patterns, and dynamic COIs based on service access logs In addition, by utilizing knowledge learned from patterns about both services and users, intelligent agents could be created to discover desired services, orchestrate services and push service workflow execution results to users automatically   Service Mining Classification Clustering Service Usage Mining Clustering Association Rule Sequential Patterns Data Mining in SOA Service Access Log Service Registry User Profile  Figure 5Application of Data Mining in SOA  However, before conducting service mining and service usage mining, the raw data-service metadata, logs, and user profiles need to be pre-processed and transformed to be suitable for running algorithms. To make the algorithm more efficient, possible data cleaning and filtering would be necessary to eliminate outlier and irrelevant data  Data mining is a very powerful technology that allows you to gain insight into large amounts of data. Within the data mining domain, classification, clustering, association rules and sequential patterns are four primary techniques to predict and identify patterns. The application of these four techniques in SOA is discussed individually    


 5             Table 1Service Classification Training Set        Table 2Service Classification Prediction   Table 3Service Clustering Based On Service Usage Log  S ERVICE C LASSIFICATION   Classification categorizes previously unseen data, based on a model built upon the existing dataset. A model is usually a function of the values of data attributes and it can be created by a domain expert or built by classification techniques such as decision tree based methods and Bayesian Belief Networks. The exiting dataset that the model is built from is usually called training set  One simple application of classification in SOA is to classify web services based on service content related metadata such as service cate gory, service description, and keywords. As shown in Table 1, in the training set the services with entity, li nk, co-occurrence, person where, when and event as the attributes are classified to be useful for terrorism analysis, whereas the others are not. Derived from this model, classification can be predicated for new services in Table 2, which serves as guidance for consumers to quickly filter the services based on their needs  S ERVICE C LUSTERING   U SER C LUSTERING   Clustering, also known as unsupervised classification, is a process to find groups of objects such that the objects in a group will be similar or related to one another and different from or unrelated to the objects in other groups. Unlike classification, clustering does not require previous training and objects can be clustered according to the distance calculation of define d criteria. Objects within a small distance range can be grouped as one cluster, while the objects that are far away from each other fall into different groups  The most important part in clustering algorithms is the distance calculation. Two common calculations are the Manhattan distance and the Euclidean distance. The Manhattan distance is calculated simply as the sum of the distances in each dimension The Euclidean distance is calculated as the square root of the sum of the squared distances in each dimension  The Manhattan Distance         2   2    1   1  B n a A n a B a A a B a A a         Web Service Service Categories Service Description Keywords  Classification useful for terrorism analysis Summarizer Unstructured Document Analysis Return the summary of a document Summary, topic, subject No Mortgage Indexes Financial Return the mortgage indexes to calculate the interest rate on ARMs Mortgage, rate, house No Evidence Entity Link Discovery Structured Analysis Discover entity and relationship among entities from the evidence data set Co-occurrence, link relationship, entity place, time, activity Yes Entity extraction Unstructured Document Analysis Extract entities from unstructured documents set Entity, person, event where, when Yes Web Service Service Categories Service Description Keywords  Predicted Classification Link and Group Analysis Unstructured Document Analysis Return related person or person and events within a document Entity co-occurrence person relationship term distance Yes Stock Quote Financial Return real-time stock quote Stock, quote No Frequency Service 1 Service 2 Service 3 Service 4 Service 5 Service 6 Service 7 Service 8 Service 9 Service 10 User A 5 4 5 5 N/A 1 0 N/A 1 0 User B 0 0 1 2 1 3 4 5 2 3 User C 5 5 4 4 2 0 1 N/A 0 0 User D 1 0 0 1 1 4 5 4 3 2 User E 2 N/A 1 0 1 4 3 5 3 3 User F 2 N/A 1 1 4 1 2 0 2 1 User G 4 5 4 N/A 1 2 N/A 0 0 0 User H 1 1 N/A 0 1 3 4 N/A 3 3 


 6 Table 4 Association Rules Combining with User Profile   Service Flow  Data Service Application Services User Facing Services Service flow 1 data service A link & group analysis service hyperbolic tree services Service flow 2 data Service B, C Market Share Analysis service pie chart service Service flow 3 data Service D link & group analysis service hyperbolic tree services Service flow 4 data Service E entity extraction service bar Chart service Service flow 5 data Service E entity extraction service hyperbolic tree services Service flow 6 data Service E Summary service HTML display service  Table 5 Association Rules to Disc over Service Co-occurrence The Euclidean Distance    2       2   2   2  2   1   1  B n a A n a B a A a B a A a        Clustering techniques can be utilized in SOAs to identify similar services and similar se rvice consumers. Instead of using service content metadata as the criteria in this example, we use service usag e logs. Table 3 records eight users access to ten services with number 0 through 5 representing the frequency of calling the services after viewing the service metadata In this table, 5 means very frequently and 0 mean s none.  N/A means the user has never accessed the service and never viewed the service metadata implying that the user does not yet know the existence of the service  The distance in this case is defined as the Euclidean distance of the service access frequency excluding the N/A elements. Following the equation, we calculate the distances between different services. For example, the distance between service 1 and service 2 is 1.73, while the distance between service 1 and service 6 is 8.48. We also calculate the distances between different users. For example, the distance between user A and user B is 9.76 while the distance between user A and user C is 2.4  After comparing the distances 10 services can be clustered into three groups: service 1, 2, 3, 4; service 5; and service 6 7, 8, 9, 10. The services in each group are very likely to be similar or related to each other Eight users can be clustered into three groups as well: user A, C, G; user F; and user B D, E, H. Each of the groups demonstrates the same behavioral pattern of accessi ng the services, which means the users within one group have the same interest. Based on the discovered clusters, User H can be advised to try service 8 and to have more collaboration with User B, D, and E  D YNAMIC COI  C ONSTRUCTION   The user clustering discussed above is particularly valuable for dynamic COI construction. With dynamic COI, users wont need to manually find groups about specific topics for subscription and bind to the groups in a static manner Instead, users will be dynamically notified of any COIs they fall into based on their service access pattern.  These automatically formed COIs will allow the differing experiences and backgrounds of analysts to further enhance the capabilities and intellectual capital of the community which they serve  S ERVICE A SSOCIATIONS   The Association Rules technique is generally applied to databases of transactions where each transaction consists of a set of items. This technique is used to identify co-relations as rules that foretell the pr esence of an item based on the presence of other items in one transaction. The rule can be expressed as If X then Y. Two thresholds confidence and support  are used to measure whethe r the rule is interesting Confidence is defined as how certain Y is true c   in the cases where X is true. Support is defined as the percentage  User Profile Access the following Data Services Access the following Application Services User A terrorism analyst; Iraq issue expert interested In: Weapon of Mass Destruction \(WMD\dam Hussein data service 1, 2 entity extraction service link & group analysis service User B terrorism analyst interested in Usama Bin Laden, terrorist organization, Al-Qaeda data service 3, 4 entity extraction service link & group analysis service User C financial analyst interested in: mortgage, stock market data service 100 mortgage indexes service real-time stock quote services User D terrorism analyst interested in: terrorism activities; 911 Al-Qaeda, Usama Bin Laden data service 3, 4 entity extraction service link & group analysis service User E terrorism analyst interested in: Al-Qaeda, Usama Bin Laden data service 5 entity extraction service link & group analysis service 


 7  s in all cases that the rule holds true. Rules with high support and confidence values are considered good rules  Confidence \(c  X Y X    Support \(s All Y X    There are several ways that we can employ the Association Rules technique into SOAs to assist in service discovery. In the next two paragraphs we will discuss two methods: the first one is to utilize user profiles and service access logs to find the rules, and the second is to examine the services within service workflow l ogs to find the co-occurrence pattern among data services, application services and userfacing services  As exhibited in Table 4, user profiles can be created based on user identity, specialized domains and interests. The following rules can be disclosed by studying the data: If a user is a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services are useful with 80% support and 100% confidence; If a user is a terrorism analyst and is interested in information about Al-Qaeda and Usama Bin Laden then data service 3 and 4 are good information sources with 40% support and 66% confidence  Table 5 showed six service workflows and revealed the following rules: If a link & group analysis service is used to analyze the data then a hyper bolic tree service is used to visualize the result with 33% support and 100% confidence If data service E is the data source then entity extraction service is used to work with the data with 33% support and 66% confidence  As illustrated above, what th is technique discovered is actually the association and relationship among services in SOA, which is not natively captured in the service registry The rules found can be used to advise proper services for users to leverage based on user profiles or on current selected services. For example, if a new user declares himself to be a terrorism analyst then entity extraction services and link & group analysis services can be recommended. Or when a user selects a link & group service, a hyperbolic tree service can be suggested to the user for visualization. He nce, the association rules technique helps to push individual services and even service workflows to the user  S ERVICE S EQUENTIAL A CCESS P ATTERNS   Sequential Patterns is an interesting data mining technique that has been used to discover customer purchase behavior web access patterns, and time related processes such as scientific experiments, natural disasters, and disease treatments. Its goal is to find inter-transaction patterns such that the presence of a set of items is followed by another item in the time-stamp ordered transaction set  In SOA, this technique can be used to discover users service access patterns in temporal order. For example among users who are working on terrorism information analysis, link & group analysis services are usually called within one hour after accessing an entity extractor service In some scenarios, the sequential patterns technique can also be used to determine which services in the same service categories are more effective. Table 6 demonstrates three analysis processes of differe nt analysts. In all three processes, we can see the r ecurring pattern: the combination of service 1, service 4, and se rvice 8 is always replaced by the combination of service 1, service 5, and service 8, which shows that service 5 probably has more advantage than service 4 when dealing with a specific topic, in this case Al-Qaeda, financial sources, even though both of them are relevant  Analysis Process Sequences start with RFI user 1  1. search service related to Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 4, 8 4. view the result 5. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 5. save service flow for the RFI start with existing service flow user 2 1. load existing service flow with services 1, 4, 8 saved for RFI about Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. modify the service flow to replace service 4 with service 5 and view the result 3. save the modification start with RFI user 3  1. search service related to Al- Qaeda, Financial Sources 2. search result: data service 1, 2, 3; application service 4, 5, 6, 7; user facing service 8, 9 3. construct service flow with service 1, 5, 8 and view the result 4. modify the service flow to replace service 5 with service 4 and view the result 5. reverse back to service 1, 5, 8 and save service flow for the RFI  Table 6Sequential Pattern in Analysis Process 5  A PPLICATION OF S ERVICE R ATING  Service Rating technique allows service consumers to review and rate services based on a set of criterias.  The review and rating then serve as references for other service consumers to inquire. The set of criterias covers service performance, availability accuracy, validity and effectiveness  Before delving into service rating technique in detail, let us first take a step back and have a look at our everyday life When people are planning to purchase a product or a 


 8 service, reviews and ratings from other customers generally play a very important role in our decision  Whenever planning to go to a restaurant, reserve a hotel purchase a car, or buy a book, people will always want to check consumer guides and any customer reviews available even if they have already got enough information from the product vendor or service provider. You may also want to call your friends to see what they think if they happen to have any experience with the product or the service, and you take their opinions and suggestions very seriously  Amazon has implemented a product review and rating mechanism that enables cust omers to share information about products. In the A9 tool just cam e out i t st art s  to capture review and rating fo r virtual product-website too In SOA, service is also virtual product. The information in the service registry is provided by service provider however a service consumer may have a totally different view from what the provider claims.  This is where a feedback loop becomes increasingly important  By incorporating users feedback about services in the format of reviews and ratings into a SOA, service consumers have a 360-degree view of services. They have an opportunity to know more about service performance effectiveness and reliability before making a selection among relevant services, which they were not able to do via the data captured in a re gular service registry   Performance Effectiveness Service Review Service Rating Extended Service Registry Inquiry Reliability  Figure 6Service Review and Service Rating  Service rating provides an overall evaluation for a service while service review provides detailed evaluations in text format.  Reviews and ratings that come from the same user group are especially interesting, since they represent opinions from a community of users with the same interests and same requirements for servi ces. With the latest service reviews and ratings bearing heavier weight, service improvements can be reflected and taken into consideration  By employing service ratings, analysts will gain the ability to focus efforts on highly rated services that are more likely to provide better results. This will allow the process to be more efficient by reducing the number of ineffective and unproductive queries and analysis 6  E XTENDED S YSTEM A RCHITECTURE  In order to take advantage of the data mining technology and service rating techniques discussed in section 4 and section 5, we propose an extended SOA infrastructure to enable pattern and association discovery, service rating and review capturing, dynamic COI construction and inquiry of all the above information  As depicted in Figure 7, the service registry that usually holds service metadata provided by service vendor is extended to include service access patterns, service associations and recurring service flows. New data structures are created in the re gistry to hold these additional information. Based on the examples in section 4 classification of useful for te rrorism analysis can be added to service entries of Evidence Entity Link Discovery Service, Entity Extractor service and Link & Group Analysis service \(Table 1, 2\ in the registry. Clusters of services: service 1, 2, 3, 4; service 5; and service 6, 7, 8,9 10 \(Table 3 and entity extraction service and link & group analysis service and hyperbolic tree service \(Table 5 service flow of service 1, 5, 8 \(Table 6\l be captured in the registry. With the information available, when a user inquires about a service from the registry, he can not only get the service metadata, but also get the other services that always co-occur with the current service, similar services and service workflows that the current service often participates in  The service registry is also extended to store service rating and reviews. After interacting with the services, service consumers can rate the service or write review about their experience and publish it to the service registry. The feedbacks are then available while other users look up the services. In the Service Seque ntial Access Patterns example four application services are returned for a RFI about AlQaeda, Financial Sources within which service 5 may have the highest average rating in Effectiveness and Performance. With this information, a user will immediately know that service 5 is the probably the best candidate to pick  In addition to the service re gistry, a user registry is introduced into the architectur e. It captures basic user profile such as name, profession, and interested domains. In addition to that the user registry also serves as a group registry and captures user groups of same interest-COIs From the user clustering example in section 4, user clusters  


 9   Figure 7 Extended SOA Infrastructure w ith Pattern/Rating Services  of user A, C, G; user F; and user B, D, E, H can be stored in the group registry for inquiry. Different from most of the COIs we encounter today, the COIs here are dynamically constructed and updated by running clustering algorithm on users access log of the services. If a users interest in terrorism analysis changes from Al-Qaeda to Saddam Hussein, it will be reflected in the dynamic user groups  To support the new features of service registry and user registry, the interface of Regi stry Service in the Core Enterprise Services block is also extended to enable publishing and querying additional information  The service blocks tier is expanded to include another set of data mining and rating related services Patterns/Associations services offer the capability of service classification, service clusteri ng, service associations and sequential access patterns discove ry. Dynamic COI services cluster users in a dynamic fashion. Both of them interact with ESM to gain access to th e service access log and user it as the input for various data mining algorithms Rating/Review services provi de the interface to define rating criteria, and capture users reviews and ratings  Companies like Amazon and eBay have utilized similar sets of data mining and rating services to provide a high level of quality to their customers.  The increase in quality and information leads to an increas ed customer base, increased participation in the community, and ultimately to increased satisfaction.  The same paradigm can be applied to the Intelligence Community providing leverage to support the analytical and collaborative process  These new capabilities will enable a more intelligent system that will better support the analyst.  By leveraging standard advantages of a SOA, these new extension will offer additional advantages to the end user.  With a SOA analysts will have the ability to discover and bind to new services on the network dynamically.  With the new techniques behind data mining and service rating applied to the SOA, analysts will be able to make better determinations on what serv ices will best support their needs  Further, these services can support the next generation of systems built around agent technologies.  With the necessary infrastructure in pl ace, intelligent ag ents can be built to automate many of the service discovery and orchestration steps taken manually today.  This additional increase in automation will allow analysts to spend less time searching and more time analyzing 7  S UMMARY  By combining data mining technology and service rating techniques into a SOA-enabled problem solving space within the Intelligence Community, analysts are able to utilize expertise and knowledge from other analysts to quickly discover services in a meaningful way and compose services into workflows  With the assistance of service mining, service usage mining and service rating, analysts can navigate through services  Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Service Profiling Intelligent Agents End-to-End Application End Users  Services Blocks Application Services Information Data Process Services BPEL User-Facing Services WSRP Extended Core Enterprise Services Security Messaging Extended Registry \(UDDI ESM Data Mining Services/Rating Services Dynamic COI Patterns/Associations Rating/Review Extended Registry Store Service Registry Patterns Associations Service Flows Service Rating/Review User Registry COIs 


 10 available on the network effi ciently and effectively by utilizing service access pattern, service associations dynamic COI and service reviews. These techniques will enable analysts to be successful even when confronted with the challenge of service overload as more services begin to populate the network R EFERENCES   Hom eland Security Efforts to Im prove Inform ation Sharing Need to Be Strengthened, GAO http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d03760.pdf  2 Secu rity Classificatio n  Un ited States In tellig en ce Community http://www.intelligence gov/2-character_classification.shtml  3 Un ited  States In tellig en ce Co m m u n ity Ho m e, Un ited  States Intelligence Community http://www.intelligence.gov   John St enbi t  M ovi ng Power t o t h e Edge http://www.chips.navy.mil/a rchives/03_su mmer/web%20pa ges/stenbit.htm   SOAP 1.2 http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part0   OASIS Uni v ersal Descri pt i on Di scovery  and Integration \(UDDI http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=uddi-spec   W e b Servi ces Descri pt i on Language \(W SDL http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl20   e b Service Orchestrati on-Business Process Execution Language \(BPEL http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsbpel   W e b Services for Rem o te Portlets W SRP http://www.oasisopen.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=wsrp   e b Services Interope rability Organization \(WS-I http://www.ws-i.org   W 3 C Sem a nt i c W e b Servi ces Int e rest Group \(SW I G  http://www.w3.org/2002/ws/swsig    IB M  Soft ware Group. Servi ce Ori e nt ed Archi t ect ure and Web Services http://www-306.ibm.com/software/solutions/webservices   R e gi s C oqueret  IB M Soft ware Group, SOA and W e b Services  Foundation for an On Demand Operating Environment     M a noel  M e ndonca, Nancy L. Sunderhaft  M i n i ng Software Engineering Data A Survey- A DACS State-ofthe-Art Report   R  C ool ey B  M obasher, and J. Sri v ast a va, W eb Mining: Information and Pattern Discovery on the World Wide Web, 9th IEEE Intern ational Conference on Tools with Artificial In telligence \(ICTAI'1997   eb Mining: Accomplishments Future Directions http://www.cicomra.org.ar/eventosycursos/ECA2004/Prese ntaciones/Tutorials/Srivastava.pdf   Pattern Discovery Software Sy stem LTD. Data Mining And Discover*E-A whilte paper on PDS Data Mining Technology http://www.patterndiscovery.com/eng/tech/discovere_white paper.pdf   Bahzad, Mortazavi-AsI, Jianyong Wang, Helen Pinto, Qiming Chen, Mei-Chun Hsu, Mining Sequential Patterns by Pattern-Growth: The PrefixSpan Approach, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Oct. 2004   Dat a M i ni ng, Knowl e dge Di scovery Genom i c M i ni ng Web Mining http://www.kdnuggets.com    Eri c Yuan, Greg W e nzel Enabl i ng Tot a l Inform at i on Awareness With Grid Services, 2003 IEEE Aerospace Conference   B a s Jansen, Servi ce Profi l i ng i n B u si ness t o  B u si ness Web Services, http://www.basj ansen.com/serviceprofiling  22] Google Search Engi ne. http://www.google.com   Am azon Online Store, http://www,am azon.com   24 Am azo n A9 to o l b a r, h ttp to o l b a r.a9 co m  


 11 B IOGRAPHY  Ying Chen is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. She has 5 years of professional experience in system design and development with J2EE and SOA technologies. She is now involved in a research and development project in support of United States Intelligence Community, designing and implementing Advanced Information Sharing and Collaboration solutions. She holds an MS degree in Computer Sc ience from Virginia Tech and BS degree in Computer Science from Fudan University in Shanghai, China  Brad Cohen is an Associate with Booz Allen Hamilton Inc He has 8 years of professional experience in developing and implementing enterprise-class systems for both commercial and government applications.  Currently he is serving as the technical manager on a research and development project in support of the United States Intelligence Community.  He holds an MBA and MS in Information Systems, and a BS in Decision and Information Scien ces from the University of Maryland, College Park   


Proceedings of the Ninth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 7 Conclusion and Future Work References frontier  pages 487\320499 Morgan Kaufmann 1994  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2003 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi03  W orkshop on frequent itemset mining implementations 2004 http://\336mi.cs.helsinki.\336/\336mi04  J  Han J  Pei and Y  Y in Mining frequent patterns without candidate generation In Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB VLDB Journal Very Large Data Bases Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery An International Journal Lecture Notes in Computer Science  2004  J W ang and G Karypis Harmon y Ef 336ciently mining the best rules for classi\336cation In The Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining KDD\32504 Symposium on Principles of Database Systems 2 b Average time taken per frequent itemset shown on two scales T10I4D100K is increased and hence the number of frequent items decreases Figure 5\(c also shows that the maximum frontier size is very small Finally we reiterate that we can avoid using the pre\336x tree and sequence map so the only space required are the itemvectors and the minSup SIAM International Conference on Data Mining required drops quite quickly as ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues in Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 2000 ACM SIGMOD Intl Conference on Management of Data Figure 5 Results  8\(3\3204 2000  F  P an G C ong A T ung J Y ang and M Zaki Carpenter Finding closed patterns in long biological datasets In  2121:236 2001  M Steinbach P N T an H Xiong and V  K umar  Generalizing the notion of support In a Runtime ratios T10I4D100K c Number of Itemvectors needed and maximum frontier size T10I4D100K  pages 1\32012 ACM Press May 2000  F  K orn A Labrinidis Y  K otidis and C F aloutsos Quanti\336able data mining using ratio rules  Morgan Kaufmann 2003  J Pei J Han and L Lakshmanan Pushing convertible constraints in frequent itemset mining We showed interesting consequences of viewing transaction data as itemvectors in transactionspace and developed a framework for operating on itemvectors This abstraction gives great 337exibility in the measures used and opens up the potential for useful transformations on the data Our future work will focus on 336nding useful geometric measures and transformations for itemset mining One problem is to 336nd a way to use SVD prior to mining for itemsets larger than  pages 205\320215 2005  We also presented GLIMIT a novel algorithm that uses our framework and signi\336cantly departs from existing algorithms GLIMIT mines itemsets in one pass without candidate generation in linear space and time linear in the number of interesting itemsets Experiments showed that it beats FP-Growth above small support thresholds Most importantly it allows the use of transformations on the data that were previously impossible  That is the space required is truly linear  D Achlioptas Database-friendly random projections In  2001  R Agra w al and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In  8:227\320252 May 2004  J Pei J Han and R Mao CLOSET An ef 336cient algorithm for mining frequent closed itemsets In  pages 21\32030 2000  S Shekhar and Y  Huang Disco v ering spatial colocation patterns A summary of results 


mator from sensor 1 also shown 6. CONCLUSIONS This paper derives a Bayesian procedure for track association that can solve a large scale distributed tracking problem where many sensors track many targets. When noninformative prior of the target state is assumed, the single target test becomes a chi-square test and it can be extended to the multiple target case by solving a multidimensional assignment problem. With the noninformative prior assumption, the optimal track fusion algorithm can be a biased one where the regularized estimate has smaller mean square estimation error. A regularized track fusion algorithm was presented which modifies the optimal linear unbiased fusion rule by a less-than-unity scalar. Simulation results indicate the effectiveness of the proposed track association and fusion algorithm through a three-sensor two-target tracking scenario 7. REFERENCES 1] Y. Bar-Shalom and W. D. Blair \(editors Tracking: Applications and Advances, vol. III, Artech House, 2000 2] Y. Bar-Shalom and H. Chen  Multisensor Track-to-Track Association for Tracks with Dependent Errors  Proc. IEEE Conf. on Decision and Control, Atlantis, Bahamas, Dec. 2004 3] Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li, Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Principles and Techniques, YBS Publishing, 1995 4] Y. Bar-Shalom, X. R. Li and T. Kirubarajan, Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation: Algorithms and Software for Information Extraction, Wiley, 2001 5] S. Blackman, and R. Popoli  Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems  Artech House, 1999 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 1 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 0 2 


2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Time N o rm a li z e d e s ti m a ti o n e rr o r s q u a re d Target 2 Sensor 1 Centralized Est Track Fusion Fig. 7. Comparison of the NEES for centralized IMM estimator \(configuration \(i estimators \(configuration \(ii sensor 1 also shown 6] H. Chen, T. Kirubarajan, and Y. Bar-Shalom  Performance Limits of Track-to-Track Fusion vs. Centralized Estimation: Theory and Application  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems 39\(2  400, April 2003 7] H. Chen, K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan and Y. Bar-Shalom  Data Association with Possibly Unresolved Measurements Using Linear Programming  Proc. 5th ONR/GTRI Workshop on Target Tracking Newport, RI, June 2002 8] Y. Eldar, and A. V. Oppenheim  Covariance Shaping Least-Square Estimation  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 51\(3 pp. 686-697 9] Y. Eldar  Minimum Variance in Biased Estimation: Bounds and Asymptotically Optimal Estimators  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(7 10] Y. Eldar, A. Ben-Tal, and A. Nemirovski  Linear Minimax Regret Estimation of Deterministic Parameters with Bounded Data Uncertainties  IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, 52\(8 Aug. 2004 11] S. Kay  Conditional Model Order Estimation  IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 49\(9 12] X. R. Li, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, and C. Han  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part I: Unified Fusion Rules  IEEE Trans. Information Theory, 49\(9  2208, Sept. 2003 13] X. R. Li  Optimal Linear Estimation Fusion  Part VII: Dynamic Systems  in Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Information Fusion, Cairns, Australia, pp. 455-462, July 2003 14] X. D. Lin, Y. Bar-Shalom and T. Kirubarajan  Multisensor Bias Estimation Using Local Tracks without A Priori Association  Proc SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 


SPIE Conf. Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets \(Vol 5204 15] R. Popp, K. R. Pattipati, and Y. Bar-Shalom  An M-best Multidimensional Data Association Algorithm for Multisensor Multitarget Tracking  IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems, 37\(1 pp. 22-39, January 2001 pre></body></html 


20 0  50  100  150  200  250  300 Pe rc en ta ge o f a dd iti on al tr af fic Cache size 200 clients using CMIP 200 clients using UIR c Figure 6. The percentage of additional traf?c the cache at every clock tick. A similar scheme has been proposed in [13], which uses fv, a function of the access rate of the data item only, to evaluate the value of each data item i that becomes available to the client on the channel If there exists a data item j in the client  s cache such that fv\(i j replaced with i A prefetch scheme based on the cache locality, called UIR scheme, was proposed in [7]. It assumes that a client has a large chance to access the invalidated cache items in the near future. It proposes to prefetch these data items if it is possible to increase the cache hit ratio. In [6], Cao improves the UIR scheme by reducing some unnecessary prefetches based on the prefetch access ratio \(PAR scheme, the client records how many times a cached data item has been accessed and prefetched, respectively. It then calculates the PAR, which is the number of prefetches divided by the number of accesses, for each data item. If the PAR is less than one, it means that the data item has been accessed a number of times and hence the prefetching is useful. The clients can mark data items as non-prefetching when PAR &gt; b, where b is a system tuning factor. The scheme proposes to change the value of b dynamically according to power consumption. This can make the prefetch scheme adaptable, but no clear methodology as to how and when b should be changed. Yin et al. [19] proposed a power-aware prefetch scheme, called value-based adaptive prefetch \(VAP the number of prefetches based on the current energy level to prolong the system running time. The VAP scheme de?nes a value function which can optimize the prefetch cost to achieve better performance These existing schemes have ignored the following characteristics of a mobile environment: \(1 query some data items frequently, \(2 during a period of time are related to each other, \(3 miss is not a isolated events; a cache miss is often followed by a series of cache misses, \(4 eral requests in one uplink request consumes little additional bandwidth but reduces the number of future uplink requests. In this paper, we addressed these issues using a cache-miss-initiated prefetch scheme, which is based on association rule mining technique. Association rule mining is a widely used technique in ?nding the relationships among data items. The problem of ?nding association rules among items is clearly de?ned by Agrawal et al. in [5]. However in the mobile environment, one cannot apply the existing association rule mining algorithm [4] directly because it is too complex and expensive to use This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in 


This makes our algorithm different from that of [4] in twofold. First, we are interested in rules with only one data item in the antecedent and several data items in the consequent. Our motivation is to prefetch several data items which are highly related to the cache-miss data item within Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE the cache-miss initiated uplink request. We want to generate rules where the antecedent is one data item, but the cache-missed data item and the consequent is a series of data items, which are highly related to the antecedent. If we have such rules, we can easily ?nd the data items which should also be piggybacked in the uplink request. Second in mobile environment, the client  s computation and power resources are limited. Thus, the rule-mining process should not be too complex and resource expensive. It should not take a long time to mine the rules. It should not have high computation overhead. However, most of the association rule mining algorithms [4, 5] have high computation requirements to generate such rules 5. Conclusions Client-side prefetching technique can be used to improve system performance in mobile environments. However, prefetching also consumes a large amount of system resources such as computation power and energy. Thus, it is very important to only prefetch the right data. In this paper, we proposed a cache-miss-initiated prefetch \(CMIP scheme to help the mobile clients prefetch the right data The CMIP scheme relies on two prefetch sets: the alwaysprefetch set and the miss-prefetch set. Novel association rule based algorithms were proposed to construct these prefetch sets. When a cache miss happens, instead of sending an uplink request to only ask for the cache-missed data item, the client requests several items, which are within the miss-prefetch set, to reduce future cache misses. Detailed experimental results veri?ed that the CMIP scheme can greatly improve the system performance in terms of increased cache hit ratio, reduced uplink requests and negligible additional traf?c References 1] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Prefetching From a Broadcast Disk. Proc. Int  l Conf. on Data Eng., pages 276  285, Feb. 1996 2] S. Acharya, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Balancing Push and Pull for Data Broadcast. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 183  194, May 1997 3] S. Acharya, R. Alonso, M. Franklin, and S. Zdonik. Broadcast disks: Data Management for Asymmetric Communication Environments. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, pages 199  210 May 1995 4] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In J. B. Bocca, M. Jarke, and C. Zaniolo editors, Proc. 20th Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases, VLDB pages 487  499. Morgan Kaufmann, 12  15 1994 5] R. Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, and Arun Swami. Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207  216, Washington, D.C May 1993 6] G. Cao. Proactive Power-Aware Cache Management for Mobile Computing Systems. IEEE Transactions on Computers, 51\(6  621, June 2002 7] G. Cao. A Scalable Low-Latency Cache Invalidation Strategy for Mobile Environments. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 15\(5 ber/October 2003 \(A preliminary version appeared in ACM MobiCom  00 8] K. Chinen and S. Yamaguchi. An Interactive Prefetching Proxy Server for Improvement of WWW Latency. In Proc INET 97, June 1997 9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for docu 


9] E. Cohen and H. Kaplan. Prefetching the means for document transfer: A new approach for reducing web latency. In Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, pages 854  863, 2000 10] R. Cooley, B. Mobasher, and J. Srivastava. Data preparation for mining world wide web browsing patterns. Knowledge and Information Systems, 1\(1  32, 1999 11] C. R. Cunha, Azer Bestavros, and Mark E. Crovella. Characteristics of WWW Client Based Traces. Technical Report TR-95-010, Boston University, CS Dept, Boston, MA 02215, July 1995 12] D. Duchamp. Prefetching hyperlinks. In USENIX Symposium on Internet Technologies and Systems \(USITS  99 1999 13] V. Grassi. Prefetching Policies for Energy Saving and Latency Reduction in a Wireless Broadcast Data Delivery System. In ACM MSWIM 2000, Boston MA, 2000 14] S. Hameed and N. Vaidya. Ef?cient Algorithms for Scheduling Data Broadcast. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  193, May 1999 15] Q. Hu and D. Lee. Cache Algorithms based on Adaptive Invalidation Reports for Mobile Environments. Cluster Computing, pages 39  48, Feb. 1998 16] Z. Jiang and L. Kleinrock. An Adaptive Network Prefetch Scheme. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 16\(3  11, April 1998 17] V. Padmanabhan and J. Mogul. Using Predictive Prefetching to Improve World Wide Web Latency. Computer Communication Review, pages 22  36, July 1996 18] N. Vaidya and S. Hameed. Scheduling Data Broadcast in Asymmetric Communication Environments. ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks \(WINET  182, May 1999 19] L. Yin, G. Cao, C. Das, and A. Ashraf. Power-Aware Prefetch in Mobile Environments. IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems \(ICDCS 2002 Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management \(MDM  04 0-7695-2070-7/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


um be r o f C he ck ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 6. The Number of Checked Patterns on the Pumsb Data Set 10 100 1000 10000 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 R un T im e s ec  Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 7. The RunTime Comparison on the Pumsb Data Set The runtime comparison of MHP and MAFIA on the Pumsb* data set is shown in Figure 5. In the ?gure, we can observe that the runtime of MHP can be signi?cantly reduced with the increase of h-con?dence thresholds. Also the runtime of MHP can be several orders of magnitude less than that of MAFIA even if the h-con?dence threshold is as low as 0.3. The reason is that the number of checked patterns of MHP is sign?cantly smaller than that of MAFIA Similar results are also obtained from the pumsb data set as shown in Figure 6 and Figure 7. For the pumsb data set the number of checked patterns of MHP is much smaller 


than that of MAFIA and the runtime of MHP can be significantly less than that of MAFIA 5.3. The Effect of the MHP Algorithm on Finding Maximal Hyperclique Patterns Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the number of maximal patterns identi?ed byMHP andMAFIA on Pumsb* and Pumsb data sets respectively. As can be seen, the number of maximal hyperclique patterns identi?ed by MHP can be orders of magnitude smaller than the number of maximal frequent patterns identi?ed by MAFIA. In other words, the number Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 1e+07 1e+08 1e+09 0.02 0.025 0.03 0.035 0.04 0.045 0.05 0.055 0.06 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0 Min_Conf=0.1 Min_Conf=0.3 Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 8. The Number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb* Data Set 100 1000 10000 100000 1e+06 


1e+07 1e+08 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 N um be r o f C ou nt ed P at te rn s Support Threshold Mafia Min_Conf=0.5 Min_Conf=0.7 Min_Conf=0.9 Figure 9. The number of MFI/MHP Patterns in the Pumsb Data Set of maximal hyperclique patterns is much easier to manage than that of maximal frequent patterns. Indeed, in realworld applications, it is dif?cult to interpret several million maximal frequent patterns. However, it is possible to interpret the results of maximal hyperclique pattern mining In addition, due to the memory limitation, we cannot extract maximal frequent patterns with MAFIA on the Pumsb data set if the support threshold is less than 0.4, as shown in Figure 7. In contrast, MHP can identify maximal hyperclique patterns when the support threshold is 0.1, if we set the h-con?dence threshold to 0.5. In other words, MHP has the ability to identify patterns which can be dif?cult to identify for MAFIA. Hence, MHP can better explore the pattern space and ?nd interesting patterns at low levels of support 6. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper, we present a two-phase Maximal Hyperclique Pattern \(MHP best features of both the BFS strategy and the DFS strategy. More speci?cally, we adapted DFS pruning methods such as equivalence pruning, to an apriori-like approach In addition, we proved the correctness and completeness of the MHP algorithm. Finally, our experimental results show that the MHP algorithm can be several orders of magnitude faster than standard maximal frequent pattern mining algorithms and has the ability to identify patterns at extremely low levels of support in dense data sets There are several directions for future work. First, in 


this paper, we only generate the size-2 patterns in the BFS phase. It will be interesting to investigate the impact on the performance if the ?rst phase is stopped at a deeper level Also, the projection is a very ef?cient method for ?nding patterns, especially for parallel implementation of pattern mining algorithms [1]. We plan to adapt the projection ideas into our algorithm and design an ef?cient parallel algorithm for mining maximal hyperclique patterns References 1] R. Agarwal, C. Aggarwal, and V. Prasad. A Tree Projection Algorithm For Generation of Frequent Itemsets. pages 350 371, Feb 2001 2] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining Association Rules between Sets of Items in Large Databases. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data, pages 207216,May 1993 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association Rules. In Proc. of the 20th Intl Conference on Very LargeData Bases, 1994 4] R. Bayardo. Ef?ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1998 5] R. Bayardo and R. Agrawal. Mining the Most Interesting Rules. In Proc. of the ACM SIGKDD Conference, 1999 6] D. Burdick, M. Calimlim, and J. Gehrke. Ma?a: AMaximal Frequent Itemset Algorithm for Transactional Databases. In Proc. of IEEE Conf. on Data Engineering, 2001 7] Y. Huang, H. Xiong, W. Wu, and Z. Zhang. A Hybrid Approach for Mining Maximal Hyperclique Patterns. In In Technical Report UTDCS-34-04, Department of computer science, University of Texas - Dallas, 2004 8] J.Han, J.Pei, and Y. Yin. Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 2000 9] M.J.Zaki and C.Hsiao. ChARM: An ef?cient algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. of 2nd SIAM International Conference on Data Mining, 2002 10] R.Rymon. Search through Systematic Set Enumeration. In Proc. Third Intl Conference on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, 1992 11] H. Xiong, M. Steinbach, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. HICAP: Hierarchial Clustering with Pattern Preservation. In Proc. of 2004 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM 12] H. Xiong, P.-N. Tan, and V. Kumar. Mining Strong Af?nity Association Patterns in Data Set with Skewed Support. In Proc. of the Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence \(ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE 





