Joining Associative Classifier for Medical Images Jiang Yun 1 Li Zhanhuai Wang Yong 1 and Zhang Longbo 21 1 1 College of Computer Science, Northwestern Polytechnical University 710072, Xian, P.R.China jiangyun@mail.nwpu.edu.cn lizhh@nwpu.edu.cn wangyong@mail.nwpu.edu.cn zhanglb@sdut.edu.cn 2 
College of Mathematics and Information Science, Northwest Normal University 730070, Lanzhou, P.R.China Abstract One of the best prevention measures against breast cancer is the early tumo r detection in digital mammography Detecting tumor in mammography is a difficult task because of their size and the high content of similar patterns in the image. This brings the necessity of creating automatic tools to find whether a mammography present tumor or not. In this paper we 
join association rule classifier with rough set theory which we call the join ing associative classifier \(JAC to mining digita l mammography. The experimental results shows that this joining associative classifier performance at 77.48% of classifying accuracy which is higher than 69.11% using associative classifier only At the same time, the number of rules decreased distinctively. Moreover, the experiments we conducted demonstrate the use and ef fectiveness of association rule mining in image categorization 
 1. Introduction  Breast cancer is the second cause of death in women in the world. This is why breast cancer is considered a public health problem. Currently there are no methods to prevent breast cancer, which is why early detection represents a very important factor in cancer treatment and allows reaching a high survival rate Mammography is considered the most reliable method in early detection of breast cancer. Due to the high volume of mammograms to be read by physicians, the 
accuracy rate tends to decrease, and automatic reading   This paper is supported by national science foundation No 60373108 of digital mammograms becomes highly desirable That is why the computer aided diagnosis systems are necessary to assist the medical staff to achieve high efficiency and effectiveness [1 A lot of efforts have been done to solve this problem the authors use data m ining t echniques 
to detect and classify anomalies in the breast. They use neural networks and association rules as the data mining algorithms. They also use a histogram equalization process to enhance the image contrast and then they perform a feature extraction process and include those features combined with patients information for the classification task. Their results were of 82.248% with neural network and 69.11 with association rules. But one noticeable advantage of the association rule-based classifier is the time required for training, which is very low compared to other 
me   the authors use a Bayesian network to find and classify regions of interest In this research they use a segmentation algorithm based on wavelet transforms and the use of a threshold that corresponding to the local minimum of the image In 3 the authors present a method for feature extraction of lesions in mammograms using  an edge based segmentation algorith m we find an 
evaluation of different methods that can be used to get texture features from regions of interest extracted from mammogram im wavelet transformation has been used to detect groups of micro-calcifications in digital mammograms. In addition, some other methods were presented in the  and Markov models and neural networks [8 W i th all this effort, there is still no widely used method to classify 


medical images. This is because this medical domain requires high accuracy and low training time Association rule mining is one of the most important tasks in data mining and it has been extensively studied and applied to market basket  rule mining method for classify anomalies in the breast. But their classify accuracy was only 69.11%. In this paper we present a new cl assification method for medical images based on association rule mining algorithmApriori and rough set theory which we call the joining associative classifier \(JAC\on real the Mam m ographic Im age Analysis Society\t 77.48% classify accuracy which is higher than 69.11% using Apriori algorithm only  The rest of the paper is organized as follows Section 2 describes the images pre-processing phase and the feature extraction phase. Section 3 presents the new association rule-based classifier joining associative classifier \(JAC our experiments and results. Finally, in section 5, we show our conclusions and future work 2.Data Pre-processing and Feature Extraction This section summarizes the techniques used to enhance the mammograms as well as the features that were extracted from images To compare with we use almost same experimental methods as it 2.1. Data Pre-processing Pre-processing is always a necessity whenever the data to be mined in noisy inconsistent or incomplete Pre-processing significantly improves the effectiveness of data mi The type size of the images in MIAS was 1024x1024 and almost 50 of the whole image comprised the background with a lot of noise. In addition, these images are scanned at different illumination conditions, and therefore some images appeared too bright and some were too dark The first step toward noise removal was pruning the images with a cropping operation. The second step was an image enhancement. Thus, we eliminated almost all the background information and most of the noise. An example of cropping that elim inates the artefacts and the black background is given in Figure 1 \(a-b Since the resulting images had different sizes, the x and the y coordinates were normalized to a value between 0 and 255. The cropping operation was done automatically by sweeping horizontally through the image Then we applied the Histogram Equalization method to enhance the image in order to diminish the effect of over-brightness or over-darkness in images Histogram Equalization increases the contrast range in an image by increasing the dynamic range of grey levels Figure 1 \(c ple of histogram equalizati on result after cropping a b c Fig 1  Pre-processing phase on an example image a\age; \(b\age;\(c image based on histogram equalization 2.2. Feature Extraction After pre-processing the images, features relevant to the classification are extracted from the cleaned images. The extracted features are organized in a database, which is the input for the mining phase of the classifier. This database is also constructed by merging some already existing features like the type of the tissue dense fatty and fatty-glandular location of the abnormality \(like the center of a circle surrounding the tumor features are four statistical parameters mean  variance  skewness and kurtosis  The formula for the statistical parameters computed is the following Mean 1  N kf k k f pf 1 Variance 22 1  N kf k  k f pf 2 Skewness  3 3 3 1 1  N kf k  k f pf 3 Kurtosis 4 4 4 1 1  N kf k  k f pf 4 Where N denotes the number of gray levels in the mammogram k f the k th gray level and   fk k pf nn where is the number of pixels with k n k f gray level and n is the total number of pixels in the region All these extracted features are computed over smaller windows of the original image. The original image is first split in four parts. For a more accurate extraction of the features we split each of these four 


regions in other four parts. The statistical parameters were computed for each of the sixteen sub-parts of the original im statistical features 3.  Joining Associative Classifier In this section we propose to execute behind to the Apriori algorithm the Rough Set Theory in order to discover strong dependencies that can, in general be useful to reduce the original set of attributes and obtain more powerful rules to classify the concept. The following are the basic concepts of the rough set theory and association rules 3.1. Rough Set Theory The original Rough Set Theory was proposed by  14 This theory is concerned with analysis of deterministic data dependencies Definition 1.  Information Systems In the Rough Set Theory, information systems are used to represent knowledge. An information system S  U  A  V  f  consists of U a nonempty, finite set named universe which is a set of objects U  x 1 x x  2m A a nonempty, finite set of attributes  A C D in which C is the set of condition attributes and D is the set of decision attributes  V V is the domain of a  Va aA f  U  A V an information function For each a A and x U an information function f  x  a  Va is defined, which means that for each object x in U  f specify its attribute value Definition 2.  Lower and Upper Approximation Due to imprecision which exists in the real world data there are always conflicting objects contained in a decision table. Here conflicting objects refers to two or more objects that are undisti nguishable by employing any set of condition attri butes, but they belong to different decision classes. Such objects are called inconsistent Such a decision table is called inconsistent decision table In the rough set theory, the approximations of sets are introduced to deal with inconsistency. If S  U  A  V  f  suppose B A and XU then the B-lower and Bupper approximation s of X are defined as       B XYUINDBY  X       BX Y U INDB Y X   Here U/IND\(B denotes the family of all equivalence classes of B  IND  B   x  y  U  U  a B f  x  a  f  y  a  B-indiscernibility relation  B X is the set of all elements of U which can be certainty classified as elements of X employing the set of attributes B The Positive Region of X is defined as POS  X  B  B X 5  B X is the set of elements of U which can be possibly classified as elements of X using the set of attributes B The set    B B nd X B X B X is called the B-boundary of X If  B Bnd X then we say that X is  definable on B otherwise we say that X is non-definable on B which is also named as rough set  14  3.2. Association Rules The purpose of association di scovery is to find items that imply the presence of other items. An association rule is form Let 12     n I ii i be a set of literals called items Let D be a set of transactions, each transaction TI  An association rule is an implication of the form X Y where X I and YI and X Y  The rule X Y holds in the transaction set D with confidence c if c of transactions in D that contain X also contain Y  The rule X Y holds in the transaction set D with support s if s of transactions in D contain XY  Give a set of transaction D the problem of mining association rules is to gene rate all association rules that have support and confidence greater than the userspecified minimum support min-sup inimum confidence min-conf  association rules two steps are required 1 Find the large itemsets for a given min-sup 2\pute rules for a given min-conf based on the itemsets obtained before  In this paper, we are based on the Apriori algorithm and rough set theory to obtain the association rules 3.3 The Algorithm of Joining Associative Classifier Algorithm Joining Associative Classifier JAC Input  S the input decision data table. The set of attributes A will be divided in condition attribute set C and decision attribute set D   min-conf the minimum confidence for rules  n maximum number of condition allowed in the antecendent of the rules Output Data mining rule set  Str D 


We will assume that input table S has been discretized and binarized. The process that will be performed is as follows Step1 Execute the Apriori algorith m on the input data table S Internally the algor ithm will calculate the size of large itemsets k depending on the nature of S We call this new set of rules  ass S Step2 Delete all those rules in which the decision attribute occurs as part of their antecedent ass S Step3 If such that then is superfluous attribute so that it can be removed from A Remove also such rules from  ik k AD ik A ass S Step4.  Analyse of the rules in the new This set of rules contains two kinds of rules that we have called strong classification rules and meta-rules  The former is composed by all those rules in which the consequent is some with confidence min-conf The latter is a set containing rules that will allow us to reduce the number of condition attributes ass S ass S i D  Include strong classification rules in the output data mining rule set  Str D Those association rules in meta-rules that only contain condition attr ibutes have to be taken into account as they highlight dependencies among condition attributes. We will call this set of rules  red S Step5. Reduce A taking into account the rules in  red S Step6.Execute the Positive Region algorithm to obtain a set of rules that will be included in output data mining rule set s tr D  4.  Experimental Results This section introduces the data collection that we used and the experimental resul ts obtained using the joining associativ e classifier proposed 4.1.  Mammography Collection The data collection that was used in our experiments was taken from the Mammographic Image Analysis Society \(MIAS This sam e collection has been used  It consists of 322 im ages which belong to three big categories normal, benign and malign. There are 208 normal images, 63 benign and 51malign which are considered abnormal. In addition, the abnormal cases are further divided in six categories microcalcification, circumscribed masses speculated masses ill-defined masses, architectu ral distortion and asymmetry All the images also include the locations of any abnormalities that may be present. The existing data in the collection cons ists of the location of the abnormality  like the center of a circle surrounding the tumor its radius breast position right or left of breast tissues \( fatty, fat ty-glandular and dense tumor type if it exists \( benign or malign\the mammograms are medio-lat eral oblique view We selected this dataset because it is freely available, and to be able to compare our method with other published  is a com m only used database for mammography categorization 4.2  Experimental Results We used the 10 fold cross validation techniques to evaluate the algorithm performance We divided the features database in ten splits. For each split we selected about 90% of the data set for training and the rest for testing. That is 288 images in the training set and 34 images in the testing set. The features database is composed with the extracted features and the existing data of 322 images in MIAS. All the numeric attributes are discrete using algorithm In the training phase, the joining associative classifier was applied on the training data and the set of association rules were extracted. Then, for an image in the testing set, the classification process searches in Table 1 The comparison of two algorithm on MIAS this set of rules for finding the class that is the closest to be attached with the object presented for categorization Apriori JAC  Ten splits rules accuracy rules accuracy 1 965 63.705 66 69.342 2 1080 67.648 98 86.373 3 1005 80.412 71 77.586 4 847 64.705 85 72.912 5 1782 64.705 74 78.224 6 1201 67.642 70 77.055 7 1359 88.205 69 77.691 8 895 64.721 80 73.752 9 1383 66.512 73 82.123 10 1366 62.901 76 79.819 average 1188 69.11 76 77.48 The support was set to 10% and the confidence to 3 The reason for choosing the 3% percent for the confidence is motivated by the fact that the database has more normal cases \(about 70 table 1, we got 77.48% classify accuracy result with the joining associative classifier than 69.11% with the  At the sam e tim e the number of rules decreased distinctively 


In table 1 the first column is the ten splits of dataset. The second and third columns are the number of rules and classify accuracy on Apriori. Then , the forth and fifth columns are the  number  of  rules  and classify accuracy on JAC We also present the positiv e predictive and the negative predictive graphs in Figure 2 to show that both false positive and false negative are very small for normal cases which means that for abnormal images we have a very small number of false negative which is very desirable in medical classification. The formula for the positive predictive and the negative predictive are given below Positive predictive=TP/\(TP+FP 6 Negative predictive =TN/\(TN+FN 7 Where TP stands for true positives, FP for false positives FN for false negatives and TN for true negatives. In addition, we can notice from equations 6 and 7 that the values for FP and FN tend to zero when the positive predictive and th e negative predictive tend to 100%. Thus, from the Figure 2, we can see that the positives predictive and in particular the negative predictive are almost 100% with our approach which means that the classification in just normal and abnormal categories was actually high                                  Fig 2  Positive and negative predictive over the ten splits The experiment is made on a computer with single 996MHz Pentium 3 CPU and 256MB memory and the JAC program is written in Bo rland C++ Builder 6. The source program of Apriori is downloaded from  5. Conclusions In this paper, we presented a cooperative association classify method applied to medical image classification. This joining associative classifier is based on the association rule mining algorithm--Apriori and the rough set theory. This approach provides a sound basis for the definition of a new cooperative algorithm to obt ain comprehensible rules while avoiding the comput ational complexity of classical predictive methods. In addition we demonstrated how important the image pre-processing phase is in building a classifier. The evaluation of the classifier was carried out on MIAS dataset and experimental results show that the accuracy of the joining associative classifier reaches 77.48% than 69.11% which execute Aprio ri algorithm itself in And the positive predictive value and the negative predictive value tend to 100% in more than half the splits. There are some future research directions to be studied To cooperate with medical staff would get more interesting results. In ad dition, the extraction of different features or a different database organization could lead to improved results 6. References  Maria-Luiza Antonie, Osm a r R.Zaiane and Alexandru Coman Application of data mining techniques for medical image classification In Proc. of Second Intl Workshop on Multimedia Data Mining MDM/KDD2001\Seventh ACM SIGKDD, San Francisco, USA, 94-101, 2001  Zhang, Xiao-Ping and Desai, Mita D Wavelet Based Automatic Thresholding for Image Segmentation In Proceedings of the ICIP97 conference Santa Barbara CA, 26-29, 1997  Bottigli, U. and Golosio B Feature Extraction from Mammographic Images Using Fast Matching Methods Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research ELSEVIER, A 487, 209-215 , 2002  Sharma, M and Singh, S Evaluation of Texture Methods for Image Analysis Proceedings of the 7 Australian and New Zeland Intelligent Information Systems Conference. Perth, November, 18-21, 2001 th  R.Muto, K. and Tsuda, M Application of the Wavelet Transform to Automated Detection of Clustered Microcalcifications in Digital Mammograms  Academic Reports of Tokyo Institute of Polytechnics, 16, 24-37, 1994  D.Brazokovic and M.Neskovic Mammogram Screening Using Multiresolution-based Image Segmentation International Journal of Pattern Recognition and Artificial Intelligence, 7\(6  H.Li et al Markov Random Field for Tumor Detection in Digital Mammography IEEE Trans. Medical Imaging 14\(3  I.Christoy ianni et al Fast Detection of Masses in Computer-aided Mammography IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 54-64, 2000 9 http://www.wiau.man.ac.uk/services/MIAS/MIASweb.ht ml  Rafael C.Gonzalez and Richard. E. Woods Digital Image Processing Addison-Wesley, 1993. second edition 


 Jiawei Han and Michline Kam ber Data mining concepts and Techniques Morgan Kaufmann, 2001  Agrawal R., Im ielinski T., Swam i A Mining Association Rules between sets of Item in Large Database Proceedings of ACM SIGMOD, 207-216 1993  Pawlak Z.W Rough sets and intelligent data analysis  Information sciences, 1-12, 2002  Pawlak Z.W Rough classification Int.J.HumanComputer Studies, 369-383, 1999  Hu X., and Cercone N Data Mining Via Generalization , Discretization and Rough Set Feature Selection   Knowledge and Information Sy stem: An International Journal, 1999, 1\(1  Zhi-Hua Zhou. AI Soft wares&Codes \(Maintained by  Zhi-Hua Zhou http://cs.nju.edu.cn/people/zhouzh/zhouzh.files/ai_resou  rce/software.htm 2004-02-29 


among items that appear in the transactions document as shown in Figure 3. Let us set the minimum support minsup  let $src:=document  transactions.xml   let $minsup:=2 let $total:=count\($src let $c:=distinct-values\($src let $l:=\(for $itemset in $c let $items:=\(for $item in $src where $itemset=$item return $item let $sup:=\(count\($items where $sup&gt;=$minsup return &lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt; {$items} &lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; {$sup} &lt;/support&gt lt;/largeItemset&gt let $L:=$l return &lt;largeItemsets&gt;{FP-growth\($l,$L,$minsup,$total,$src lt;/largeItemsets&gt  The XQuery expressions for the FP-growth are as follows define function FP-growth\(element $l, element $L, element minsup, element $total, element $src let $f-item:=first item in $L let $l-item:=last item in $L let $T:=getl-itemsets\($src, $total, $minsup return &lt;items&gt join \($l-item, $T lt;/items&gt let $l:=$l-items let $L:=remove\($l for f-item in $L where $f-item != $l-item return  FP-growth \($l, $L, $minsup, $total, $src   define function getl-itemsets\(element $src, element $total element $minsup let $l:=\(for $itemset in $src where $itemset=$l-item return $itemset let $sup:=\(count\($l where $sup&gt;=$minsup return &lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt; {$item} &lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; {$sup} &lt;/support&gt lt;/largeItemset&gt   Figure 4 shows all the large itemsets generated by our XQuery queries  lt;largeItemsets&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; B &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 7 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; A &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 4 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt  lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt 


lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; C &lt;/item&gt  lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 4 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt  lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; D &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 2 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt  lt;largeItemset&gt lt;items&gt lt;item&gt; E &lt;/item&gt lt;/items&gt lt;support&gt; 2 &lt;/support&gt lt;largeItemset&gt lt;/largeItemsets&gt  Figure 4 : Large Itemsets document \(large.xml  Item    conditional  conditional    frequent pattern pattern base    FP-tree           generated E     {\(BAC:1 BA:1 BAE:2 D    {\(B:1 BA:1 C    {\(BA:2 B:2 BAC:2 A    {\(B:4}                      &lt;B:4&gt;              BA:4  Table 3: Mining FP-tree  7. Conclusion  In this paper, we presented the XQuery expression of the FP-growth method from XML data We use the FP-growth algorithm to generate the large itemset document, and then select all association rules from the large item set where support is greater than or equal to the minimum support. We have proposed frequent pattern tree \(FP-tree growth method, FP-growth. There are several advantages of FP-growth over other approaches. It constructs a highly compact FP-tree, which is usually substantially smaller than the original database, and thus saves the costly database scans in the subsequent mining processes. It applies a pattern growth method which avoids costly candidate generation and test by successively concatenating frequent 1-itemset found in the \(conditional divide-and-conquer method which dramatically reduces the size of the subsequent conditional pattern bases and conditional FP-trees. To our knowledge, the FP-growth method has been implemented using the query language XQuery, without pre-processing or post-processing of the data. Many issues remain open, one of the issues concerns the structure of the XML data. Since the structure of the XML data can be  very complex and irregular, identifying the mining context on such XML data becomes difficult. Our current and future research in this area focuses on investigating what other standard data mining algorithms can be expressed in XQuery  References  1] PMML 2.1 Predictive Model Markup Language http://www.dmg.org, March 2003 2] World Wide Web Consortium. Extensible Markup Language \(XML Second Edition 


Language \(XML Second Edition Recommendation. http://www.w3.org/XML 3] Xyleme. http://www.xyleme.com 4] Lucie Xyleme. A dynamic warehouse for XML data of the web. IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin, 2001 5] World Wide Web Consortium. XQuery 1.0: An   XML Query Language \(W3C Working Draft http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/WD-xquery-20020816, Aug 2002 6] World Wide Web Consortium. http://www.w3.org 7] R. Agrawal, T. Imielinski, and A. Swami. Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. In P Buneman and S. Jajodia, editors, SIGMOD93, pages 207  216 Washington, D.C., USA, May 1993 8] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules in large databases. In J. B. Bocca, M. Jarke and C. Zaniolo, editors, Proceedings of 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, pages 487  499 Santiago, Chile, September 12-15 1994 9] D. Braga, A. Campi, M. Klemettinen, and P. L.  Lanzi Mining association rules from XML data. In Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Data Warehousing and Knowledge Discovery \(DaWaK 2002 Provence, France 2002 10] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A query language for database mining. 1999 11] R. Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. A new SQLlike operator for mining association rules. In The VLDB Journal, pages 122  133, 1996 12] A. Termier, M.-C. Rousset, and M. Sebag. Mining XML data with frequent trees. In DBFusion Workshop  02, pages 87  96        pre></body></html 





 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 0.9 1.0 a MinMaxLoad WC 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 1 21416181 Time \(epoch counts 0.6 b SS2 Figure 4 Space needed at node R to store answer synopsis S A  non-distributed single-stream case In contrast when SS2 is used to set the precision gradient Figure 4b the space requirement is almost an order of magnitude greater This difference in synopsis size occurs because in SS2 frequency counts are only pruned from synopses at leaf nodes so counts for all items that are locally frequent in one or more local streams reach the root node No pruning power is reserved for the root node and therefore no count in S A is ever discarded irrespective of the  value The same situation occurs if Algorithm 2b is used instead of Algorithm 2a This result underscores the importance of setting  1  in order to limit the size of S A  as discussed in Section 2.1 3.4 Communication Load Figure 5 shows our communication measurements under each of our two metrics for each of our three data sets under each of the ve strategies for setting the precision gradient listed in Table 3 First of all as expected the overhead of SS1 is excessive under both metrics Second by inspecting Figure 5a we see that strategy MinRootLoad does indeed incur the least load on the root node R in all cases as predicted by our analysis of Section 2.1.2 Under this metric MinRootLoad outperforms both simple strategies SS1 and SS2 by a factor of 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 247k 10k 296k 132k 20k counts transmitted \(per epoch a Load on root node R 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 INTERNET2 AUCTION BBOARD SS1 SS2 MinRootLoad MinMaxLoad_WC MinMaxLoad_NWC 43k    21k 52k   19k 23k   7k counts transmitted \(per epoch b Maximum load on any link Figure 5 Communication measurements k denotes thousands ve or more in all cases measured However MinRootLoad performs poorly in terms of maximum load on any link as shown in Figure 5b because no early elimination of counts for infrequent items is performed and consequently synopses sent from the grand-children of the root node to the children of the root node tend to be quite large As expected MinMaxLoad NWC performs best under that metric on all data sets For the AUCTION data set even though SS2 outperforms MinMaxLoad WC to be expected because of the high  value our hybrid strategy MinMaxLoad NWC is superior to SS2 by a factor of over two For the I NTERNET 2 and BBOARD data sets the improvement over SS2 is more than a factor of three On the negative side total communication not shown in graphs is somewhat higher under MinMaxLoad WC than under SS2 increase of between 7.5 and 49.5 depending on the data set 4 Related Work Most prior work on identifying frequent items in data streams 6 8 9 19 only considers the single-stream case While we are not aware of any work on maintaining frequency counts for frequent items in a distributed stream setting work by Babcock and Olston does adProceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


dress a related problem In the problem is to monitor continuously changing numerical values which could represent frequency counts in a distributed setting The objective is to maintain a list of the top k aggregated values where each aggregated value represents the sum of a set of individual values each of which is stored on a different node The work of assumes a single-le v e l communication topology and does not consider how to manage synopsis precision in hierarchical communication structures using in-network aggregation which is the main focus of this paper The work most closely related to ours is the recent work of Greenwald and Khanna which addresses the problem of computing approximate quantiles in a general communication topology Their technique can be used to nd frequencies of frequent items to within a congurable error tolerance The work in focuses on providing an asymptotic bound on the maximum load on any link our result adheres to the same asymptotic bound It does not however address how best to congure a precision gradient in order to minimize load which is the particular focus of our work 5 Summary In this paper we studied the problem of nding frequent items in the union of multiple distributed streams The central issue is how best to manage the degree of approximation performed as partial synopses from multiple nodes are combined We characterized this process for hierarchical communication topologies in terms of a precision gradient followed by synopses as they are passed from leaves to the root and combined incrementally We studied the problem of nding the optimal precision gradient under two alternative and incompatible optimization objectives 1 minimizing load on the central node to which answers are delivered and 2 minimizing worst-case load on any communication link We then introduced a heuristic designed to perform well for the second objective in practice when data does not conform to worst-case input characteristics Our experimental results on three real-world data sets showed that our methods of setting the precision gradient are greatly superior to na  ve strategies under both metrics on all data sets studied Acknowledgments We thank Arvind Arasu and Dawn Song for their valuable input and assistance References  R Agra w a l and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In VLDB  1994  I Akamai T echnologies Akamai http://www akamai.com   A Ak ella A Bharambe M Reiter  and S Seshan Detecting DDoS attacks on ISP networks In PODS Workshop on Management and Processing of Data Streams  2003  A Arasu and G S Manku Approximate quantiles and frequency counts over sliding windows In PODS  2004  B Babcock and C Olston Distrib uted top-k monitoring In SIGMOD  2003  M Charikar  K  Chen and M F arach-Colton Finding frequent items in data streams In International Colloquium on Automata Languages and Programming  2002  E Cohen and M Strauss Maintaining time-decaying stream aggregates In PODS  2003  G Cormode and S Muthukrishnan What s hot and whats not Tracking frequent items dynamically In PODS  2003  E D Demaine A Lopez-Ortiz and J I Munro Frequency estimation of internet packet streams with limited space In European Symposium on Algorithms  2003  DynaServ er R UBis and R UBBos http://www.cs rice.edu/CS/Systems/DynaServer   eBay Inc eBay  http://www.ebay.com   C Estan and G V a r ghese Ne w directions in traf c measurement and accounting In SIGCOMM  2002  M F ang N Shi v akumar  H  Garcia-Molina R Motwani and J Ulmann Computing iceberg queries efciently In VLDB  1998  P  B Gibbons and Y  Matias Ne w sampling-based summary statistics for improving approximate query answers In SIGMOD  1998  P  B Gibbons and S T irthapura Estimating simple functions on the union of data streams In Symposium on Parallel Algorithms and Architectures  2001  M Greenw ald and S Khanna Po wer conserving computation of order-statistics over sensor networks In PODS  2004  J Han J Pei G Dong and K W ang Ef cient computation of iceberg queries with complex measures In SIGMOD  2001  Internet2 Internet2 Abilene Netw ork http abilene.internet2.edu   R M Karp S Shenk er  and C H P apadimitriou A simple algorithm for nding frequent elements in streams and bags ACM Trans Database Syst  2003  H.-A Kim and B Karp Autograph T o w ard automated distributed worm signature detection In Proceedings of the 13th Usenix Security Symposium  2004  A Manjhi V  Shkapen yuk K Dhamdhere and C Olston Finding recently frequent items in distributed data streams Technical report 2004 http://www cs.cmu.edu/manjhi/freqItems.pdf   G S Manku and R Motw ani Approximate frequenc y counts over data streams In VLDB  2002  Open Source De v elopment Netw ork Inc Slashdot http://slashdot.org  Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Data Engineering \(ICDE 2005 1084-4627/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


12] S. Fujiwara, J. D. Ullman and R. Motwani, Dynamic Miss-Counting Algorithms: Finding Implications and Similarity Rules with Confidence Pruning. Proceedings of the IEEE ICDE \(San Diego, CA 13] F. Glover  Tabu Search for Nonlinear and Parametric Optimization \(with Links to Genetic Algorithms  Discrete Applied Mathematics 49 \(1-3 14] M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H Toivonen, and A. Verkamo, Finding interesting rules from large sets of discovered association rules. Proceedings of the ACM CIKM, International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(Kansas City, Missouri 1999 15] C. Ordonez, C. Santana, and L. de Braal, Discovering Interesting Association Rules in Medical Data. Proceedings of the IEEE Advances in Digital Libraries Conference Baltimore, MD 16] W. Perrizo, Peano count tree technology lab notes Technical Report NDSU-CS-TR-01-1, 2001 http://www.cs.ndsu.nodak. edu /~perrizo classes/785/pct.html. January 2003 17] Ron Raymon, An SE-tree based Characterization of the Induction Problem. Proceedings of the ICML, International Conference on Machine Learning \(Washington, D.C 275, 1993 18] N. Shivakumar, and H. Garcia-Molina, Building a Scalable and Accurate Copy Detection Mechanism Proceedings of the International Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries, 1996 19] P. Tan, and V. Kumar, Interestingness Measures for Association Patterns: A Perspective, KDD  2000 Workshop on Post-processing in Machine Learning and Data Mining Boston, 2000 20] H.R. Varian, and P. Resnick, Eds. CACM Special Issue on Recommender Systems. Communications of the ACM 40 1997 Proceedings of the 16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence  ICTAI 2004 1082-3409/04 $20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


