html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">2004 IEEE  International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybemetics Mining Fuzzy Association Rules of Specified Output Field   Toshihiko Watanabe College of Engineering Osaka Electro-Communication University Neyagawa, Japan t-wata@isc.osakac.ac.jp Abstract - This poper describes fast olgorifhms for extrocfing f u z q  ossociofion rules $-om dofobose. The objecfive of the olgorifhm is to improve the compufafionol time of mining and to reduce the extracted redundant rules for the octuol opplicofion. 112 this poper, for exfrocling f i iuy  ossociafion rules, i f  is assumed tho1 conclusion port of lhefuzq rule is specijed in odvonce i.e. before sfortirig mining computotion. This ossuinpfion corresponds to actualproblems, e.g. diagnostics problem of the process, quolity control action of monufocturirig oiid so on. The olgorifhm is based on the Apriori algorithm for rule exfraction of fhe specified oufputfield or ourput fuzzy set. From the resulfs of numeiicol experimenfs, fhe algorithm is found fo be effective compared uifh the coriventioiiol method in terms of computofioiiol time Keywords: Soft computing, fuzzy association rule, data mining, database, modeling 1 Introduction In data mining approach, the quantitative attributes should be appropriately dealt with as well as the Boolean attributes. Especially in manufacturing area, quantitative atttjbutes such as state of process, condition of manufacturing, and measured quality of products, are necessary for quality control, manufacturing management planning, and decision of strategy. In order to deal with the quantitative attributes in mining association rules algorithms based on the generalized association rules that handle the continuous attributes as the Boolean vector by partitioning into several intervals are proposed[l][2 Though several methods were also proposed to improve the computational time, the results through the algorithms were still time consuming and complicated to the user Fuzzy association rules approaches are proposed to overcome such disadvantages based on the fiuq set[3-6 These approaches were based on fuzzy extensions to the classical association rules mining by defining support and confidence of the fuzzy rule. Though the mining results are easy to understand by human operator, two drawbacks are still remained for applying such fuzzy approaches to the actual problems. One is the computational time for mining from database, and the other is redundant rules extraction This paper describes fast algorithms for extracting fuzzy association rules from database. The objective of the algorithm is to improve the computational efficiency of data mining and to reduce the redundant rules extracted for the actual application. In this paper, I propose a basic algorithm based on the Apriori algorithm for rule extraction of the specified output field. For extracting fuzzy association rules, it is assumed that the conclusion part of the fuzzy rule is specified in advance, i.e. before starting mining computation. This assumption corresponds to actual problem, e.g. diagnostics problem of the process, quality control action of manufacturing and so on. For example, in the fault diagnosis problem the conclusion part of required rule is specified as the symptom of the fault. The rules that express the causes of the fault are acquired from the database in which tbe measured data are stored. According to the assumption of rule specification, the basic mining algorithm, i.e. Apriori algorithm, can be improved 2 Extraction of fuzzy association rules 


2 Extraction of fuzzy association rules 2.1 Fuzzy association rules Fuzzy association rules extraction is employed as the following steps. Let F = {P,Q,r itemset which consists of fuzzy sets in different attribute where P, Q, and T denote the fuzzy sets. Support of the itemset F is defined as where x p  denotes the transaction of the database, and pF \( x p product operation of each item\(Fuzzy Set 0-7803-8566-7/04/$20.00 0 2004 IEEE 5754 denotes the total number of transactions in database. It is obvious that the definition is equivalent to the well-known  Boolean mining problem  when the itemsets consist of  crisp sets  From the support value, confidence of the fuzzy association rule G &gt; H is calculated by c\(G 9 H G U H G 2 where G and Hare fuzzy itemsets. Fuzzy association nile is extracted when these values of the rule are more than pre-defined minimal support and pre-defined minimal confidence. When we apply the mining algorithm to the actual huge problems, the support calculation is critical calculation concerning the number of query to the datahase. The itemset which bas the value greater than predefined threshold is called  frequent itemset  One of the main problems of mining fuzzy association rules is how efficiently find the  frequent itemsets  from the database 2.2 The Apriori algorithm The Apriori algorithm is essential and effective method for finding the frequent itemsets. The basic idea is that the frequent itemset should contain the subsets of frequent itemsets. Owing to this characteristic, frequent itemsets can be compounded from the smaller frequent itemsets one afler another. Let k-itemset denote an itemset having k items. Let Lr represent the set of frequent k itemsets, and C, the set of candidate k-itemsets. The algorithm to generate the frequent itemsets is as follows AI A2 k-l A3 that is not in Lk.1 are deleted database scan to decide Lk It should be noted that the plural fuzzy sets defined in fhe same attribute cannont be included together in the same itemset. Afler LI is decided first through database scan the above AI-A3 procedures are iterated until Lk becomes empty set. The association rules are extracted by combining the decided frequent itemsets to calculate the confidence of the rule 3 Data mining of specified output Generally, data mining techniques are applied and studied for finding unexpected rules from huge database or dataware house, e.g. in marketing problem or basket analysis. The system using mining algorithm is constructed under assumption that there is always no useful relation in the attributes in database. However, in manufachuing system application, the output field ,or output set is often obvious according to the objectives of the mining system application. For example, the measured quality variable or the process control variable is usually target output for manufacturing process analysis. In this paper, it is assumed that the conclusion part of the fuzzy rule is specified in advance, i.e. before starting mining computation, from the above viewpoint. According to the assumption, redundant calculation for extracting trivial rules can be reduced The specified output is defined as the attribute in datahase or fuzzy set. When the attrihute of conclusion part is specified, the mining problem becomes a kind of 


part is specified, the mining problem becomes a kind of modeling problem. In other hands  when the fuzzy set of conclusion part is specified, the mining problem is like a difficult query problem to the database. It should he noted that the following formulation of algorithm can also be applied to the  Boolean mining problem   4 Algorithms I propose two improved algorithms of the Apriori algorithm by utilizing the above described assumption of the rule output specification. Though the confidence of the association rules are calculated finally after all decision of frequent itemsets in traditional data mining approach, the basic idea of my proposal is that the confidence of the rule can be calculated after each step A3 in the Apriori algorithm and used for pruning the redundant itemsets 4.1 Algorithm utilizing confidence change In addition to the basic Apriori algorithm, the following procedures are employed for b 2  as A4 confidence of k-rule based on 4 and Lk.1 A5  trivial confidence  are deleted. Where the  trivial confidence  is defined that the confidence value U is less than predefined threshold and U is less than any confidence of the subset \(k-l Where k-rule denotes the rule that has k attributes including specified conclusion part. Where the  subset rule  denotes that the itemset corresponding to the rule is subset of the itemset of larger rule and the conclusion parts of both rules are the same set. The concept of the procedure is that the confidence of rule should increase by increasing the number of condition sets. In other words the procedure is based on the heuristics that the combination of sets in condition part which deteriorates the confidence value will become redundant in the following iterations. It should be noted that the confidence calculation in each iteration does not lead to the increase of calculation time 5755 4.2 Reduced DB scan algorithm I expand the above algorithm in order to reduce the number of database scan for calculating the support, i.e necessary problem in terms of computational time improvement in fuzzy data mining. The idea of the expansion is to calculate the support of ktl itemsets containing conclusion part set together with k itemsets in k-th iteration. By this advanced calculation, confidence of k+l redundant rule and itemsets in k-th iteration. Furthermore the number of database scan can be reduced by more than one pass Let Mk represent the set of frequent k-itemsets excluding the specified output, and Dk the set of candidate k-itemsets for Mk. Let Nk represent the set of frequent k itemsets including the specified output without fail, and E k the set of candidate k-itemsets for Nk. For easy explanation it is assumed that the output is specified as the fuzzy set denoted as F. The algorithm to extract the fuzzy association rule through generating the frequent itemsets\(b1 B1 B2 k that is not in Mk., are deleted B3 the set F o f  specified conclusion part B4 is not in Nk are deleted B5 through database scan to decide hfk and N~+I B6 


B6 Mk and Nk B7 condition part of the rule with  3 trivial confidence  are deleted. The &amp;+I which correspond to such the rules are also deleted Where the  ptrivial confidence  is defined that the confidence value a is less than predefined threshold and U+ p is less than any confidence of the subset k-rule in Nk Where /3 is a predefined parameter\(O&lt; /3 Cl step\(k=l part. E, is set by F. E2 is generated by joining DI with F The support of itemsets in D,, El,  and E2 is calculated through database scan. The confidence values of I-rule and 2-rule are calculated. After these calculations, the above BI-B7 procedures are iterated until Nk+l becomes empty set. Owing to the alogorithm, the number of database scan is reduced by more than one pass 5 Numerical experiments I develop the fuzzy mining system and evaluate the proposed algorithms through numerical experiments. I apply the system to  abalone data  available from the UCI Machine Leaming Repository. The abalone data set consists of 4177 measured data with 1 nominal attribute and 8 continuous attributes as shown in Tahle.1. In the experiments the nominal attribute is transformed to the continuous attribute. Table 2\(a the fuzzy partition information of attributes is summarized in Table 2\(b than the actual data distribution for performance evaluation. The fuzzy partition example is shown in Fig. 1 I use two types of fuzzy sets wirh different width Although it is better to use the factor such as  interesting   for pruning the derived rules, I apply the native association rule extraction for proposed algorithm evaluation Table I. Abalone data Table 2. Statistical information and fuzzy sets settings a 1x11 x2 I 13 I x4 1 x5 I x6 I x7 1 x8 1 y Min I 0 10.075 \\0.055 1 0.00 I 0.002 I 0.001 1 Max1 2 IO.815 10.650 I 1.13 I 2.826 I 1.488 10.760 I 1.005 I 29 0.001 10.002 1 b 1 0 x2 1 0 x2 2.0 0.0 Figure 1. An example of fuzzy partition 5756 5.1 Results of algorithm utilizing confidence chanl:e The algorithm utilizing confidence change is applied to the minimg problem on condition that the output field is specified The minimal support is set as 0.2.The results by standard Apriori algorithm are shown in Fig.2 At arround 4* itemset calculation, much waste computation is employed. From the results, it can be seen that the waste computation should be reduced The results by proposed algorithm with changing threshold value of confidence is shown in Fig.3. The reduction rates of the waste support calculation compared with the Apriori algorithm are confirmed as shown in Fig.3. Figure 4 shows the number of extracted d e s .  At the threshold value 0.7, the result is the same as conventional Apriori algotithm. However, the number of rules are reduced at the other threshold value. From the results, some improvement of computational efficiency 8s confirmed 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 trmrt shr Figure 2. Results by Apriori algorithm 3 [  I I 0.50 0.55 0.60 0.65 0.70 Threshold Vabe of Confdolcs Figure 3. Reduction of support calculation 0.50 0.55 0.60 '0.65 . 0.70 Threshold Value of Conmiice Figure 4. Pruning results by prop 5.2 Results of reduced DB scan algorithm The reduced DB scan algorithm is applied to the mining problem on condition that the output fuzzy set is specified. The 5th set of the larger sets defined in the output attribute is selected as the output fuzzy set. The minimum support is set as 0.2. The minimum confidence is set as 0.6. The parameter p i s  changed to eval+te the performance of proposed algorithm. The 'results are evaluated compared with mining by traditional database scan \(Utilizaing Confidence Change Figure 5-8 show the results of the nqer ica l experiments. From the results, computational time is drastically reduced. Furthermore the pruning parameter can control the computational efficiency. The low value of the parameter leads to highly reduction of redundant rule generation for computation. Figure 6 shows that the the number of frequent itemsets are reduced. This also contributes the reduction of computaion in candidate generation and subset pruning. Figure 7 shows that the completely same rnles can be extracted in efficient computational time. Figure 8 also shows the algorithm can reduce the number of database scan Result of Tradithal Scan __. 4 ProposcdMclhcd i 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 I Parameter vakx Figure 5. Reduction of support calculation 5757 0 02 0 4  0 6  08 I Paramefervabuc Figure 6. The Number of frequent itemsets 40 3 s P 2 30 B P 25 b 0 1 I5 I z 10 _ t Resub ofTradaanal Scan ProposedMethod Sd -______ Rcsuh ofTra&amp;al Scan 4 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 I Parameter V a b Figure 8. The number of database scan In order to evaluate the performace, let us confirm the results under appropriate parameter setting. Though the appropriate parameter is different according to the objectives of application, the value is set at 0.5 in this paper. Figure 9 shows the reduction of calculated itemsets At first iteration, proposed algorithm need much computation compared with the traditional scan method However in proceeding iterations, computational time are reduced by pruning mechanism. Figure 10 shows the 


number of frequent itemsets decided at each iteration. The stored itemsets is also reduced From these experiments, the proposed algorithm are found to be effective in terms of the computational efficiency and redundant rule pruning    t P r o p c d M c U a d I Traradlona,Sca,J  i 0 0 2 4 6 8 IO Database k a o Figure 9. The number of candidate itemsets GR;o.51 0 2 4 6 8 10 Database kan Figure 10. The number of frequent itemsets W0.5 5758 6 Conclusions In this paper, I propose fast algorithms for extracting fuzzy association rules of the specified output field from database based on the Apriori algorithm. Through the numerical experiments, the algorithms are found to be effective compared with the conventional method in terms of computational time and redundant rules pruning In future, I will apply the algorithm to more complicated and large actual problems References I] R. Srikant and R. Agrawal  Mining generaliz8:d association rules  Proc. of the Zlst VLDB Cont pp.407-419, 1995 2] R. Srikant and R. Agrawal  Mining quantitative association rules in large relational tables  Proc. of the ACM Con$ on Monagement of the Data, pp.1-12 1996 3] G. Chen and Q. Wei  Fuuy association rules m d the extended mining algorithms  InformotLm Sciences, Vo1.147, pp.201-228,2002 4] H. Ishibucbi and T. Yamamoto  Fuzzy nile selection by data mining criteria and genelic algorithms  Pi-oc. of Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference, pp. 399-406,2002 5] Y. Hu, R. Chen, and G. Tzeng  Discovering fuzzy association rules using fuzzy partition method   KiioM./edge-BusedSlafems, Vol. 16, pp.137-147, 20  03 6] T. Watanabe and N. Nakayama  Fuzzy nile extraction based on the mining generalized association rules  Proc. of the 2003 IEEE Iiit. Cor$ 011 Syst Mali, and Cybeni., #1565, 2003 5759 pre></body></html 


      T10.I4.D100k.d m P2 0 5 10 15 20 25 20 40 60 80 100  db transaction number k  Running tine \(sec 0.20 0.40 Figure 5. Scalability with the transaction number of db T10.I4.D z d100k.P2 0 5 10 15 20 25 100 200 400 600 800 1000  DB transaction number k  Running time\(sec 0.20 0.40 Figure 6. Scalability with the transaction number of DB 5. Conclusions In the real world, databases are periodically and continually updated.  Therefore, mining must be repeated Valid patterns and rules must to be efficiently generated Incremental mining must usually involve the original database and the new added transactions.  Scanning the original database is very expensive, so the proposed method outperforms others by avoiding the rescanning of the original database This investigation has presented a new method, NFUP for incremental mining.  NFUP does not require the rescanning of the original database and can determine new frequent itemsets at the latest time intervals.  The proposed method uses information available from a following partition to avoid the rescanning of the original database; it requires only the incremental database to be scanned.  In reality, the transaction number of the incremental database is very small in contrast to the original database.  The running time of NFUP rises almost in direct proportion with the transaction number of the incremental database Accordingly, NFUP is suited frequently updated databases In the future, the authors will consider the extension of the NFUP algorithm to sequence rules References  R. C. Agarw al, C  C. Agg arwal and V. V. V   Prasad, A tree projection algorithm for generation of frequent itemsets Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing Vol. 61, No 3, pp. 350-361, 2000  C. C. Aggar wal and P  S. Y u Mining associations with the collective strength approach IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Engineering Vol. 13, No. 6, pp. 863-873, 2001  R. Agraw al T. Imielinski, and A. S w ami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases In Proc 1993 ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conf. on Management of Data Washington, D.C., pp. 207-216, May 1993  wa l a n d R Srika nt Fa st a l gorithms for mining association rules, In Proc. 20th Intl. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases Santiago, Chile, pp. 487-499, Sep. 1994  N. F. A y a n, A. U Tansel and E. Arkun, An eff icient algorithm to update large itemsets with early pruning, In Proc. 5th ACM SIGKDD Intl. Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining San Diego, CA, pp. 287-291, Aug. 1999  S. Brin, R Motwani, J. D  Ullman, and S Tsur, D y n amic itemset counting and implication rules for market basket data In Proc. 1997 ACM SIGMOD Intl. Conf. on Management of Data Tucson, AZ, pp. 255-264, May 1997  M. S. Chen  J. Han and P S Yu, Data mining: An overview from a database perspective IEEE Trans. Knowledge Data Engineering Vol. 8 No. 6, pp. 866-883, 1996  D. W. Ch eung, J. Han  V T. Ng and C. Y  Wong  Maintenance of discovered association rules in large databases: an incremental updating technique, In Proc. 12th Intl. Conf. on Data Engineering New Orleans, LA, pp 106-114, Feb. 1996  D. W. Cheu ng, S. D. Lee an d B. Kao A gen eral incr em ental technique for maintaining discovered association rules, In Proc 5th Intl. Conf. on Database Systems for Advanced Applications Melbourne, Australia, pp. 185-194, Apr. 1997  J. Han, J. Pei and Y. Yin Mining frequ ent patterns without candidate generation In Proc 2000 ACM-SIGMOD Intl Conf. on Management of Data Dallas, TX, pp. 1-12, May 2000  T. P. Hong C. Y  Wang, and Y. H Tao A n e w in cremental data mining algorithm using pre-large itemsets Intelligent Data Analysis Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 111-129, 2001  C. H. Lee M. S. Chen  and C. R. Lin Progressive par tition  miner: An efficient algorithm for mining general temporal association rules IEEE Trans. Knowledge Data Engineering  Vol. 15, No. 4, pp. 1004-1017, 2003  C. H  Lee, C. R  Lin, and M. S. Chen Sliding-window  filtering: An efficient algorithm for incremental mining, In Proc. 10th Intl Conf. on Information and Knowledge Management Atlanta, GA, pp. 263-270, Nov. 2001  association rules dynamically In Proc. Intl. Symposium on Database Applications in Non-Traditional Environments Kyoto, Japan pp. 84-91, Nov. 1999  T. Y. Ng M. L. Wong, an d P. Bao Incremental mining o f  association patterns on compressed data, In Proc. Joint 9th IFSA World Congress and 20th NAFIPS Intl. Conf Vancouver, Canada, pp. 441-446, Jul. 2001   S. Yu, An effective hash-based algorithm for mining association rules, In Proc 7 Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


1995 ACM-SIGMOD Intl. Conf. on Management of Data San Jose, CA, pp. 175-186, May 1995  N. L. Sarda and N. V. Srinivas, An adap tiv e algorithm for  incremental mining of association rules, In Proc. 9th Intl Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications  Vienna, Austria, pp. 240-245, Aug. 1998  A. Savasere, E. Omiecinsk i, and S. Nav ath e, An efficient  algorithm for mining association rules in large databases, In Proc. 21st Conf. on Very Large Data Bases Zurich Switzerland, pp. 432-444, Sep. 1995  S. Thomas, S. Bod agala K. Alsabti and S. Rank a, An  efficient algorithm for the incremental updating of association rules in large database, In Proc. 3rd Intl. Conf. on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Newport Beach, CA, pp 263-266, Aug. 1997  A. Velos o W. Meira Jr  M B. de Carvalho B Pssas, S  Parthasarathy, and M. J. Zaki, Mining frequent itemsets in evolving databases, In Proc. 2nd SIAM Intl. Conf. on Data Mining Arlington, VA, Apr. 2002 8 Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


CBA and Neural Networks at 1% confidence level while they are all significantly better than C4.5 decision tree. Taking the interpretability of classification model into account, these two adapted CBA algorithm seem to be appropriate choices for credit scoring because they generated much more compact decision lists \(less sequential rules original CBA. They therefore favour the well-known Occam  s Razor theory and are more suitable for decision makers to understand. A deeper insight into the rules structures shows that original CBA and adapted CBA 1 both focus on generating classification rules that predict good clients \(with bad clients as the default class implication, numerous rules with high confidence but low support have lower ranks than they are in original CBA. These rules are finally discarded since they are not fired by any training samples, which are matched by these rules with higher intensity of implications thus making the decision lists generated by adapted CBA 1 more compact. Adapted CBA 2 mainly mines these classification rules for bad clients \(with good clients as the default class compact rule sets Original CBA Adapted CBA1 Adapted CBA2 C45 NN dataset accuracy no. of rules accuracy num. of rules accuracy no. of rules accuracy accuracy 1 Austr 85.65% 130.5 86.52% 26.4 86.96% 12.4 86.52% 85.07 2 Germ 73.30% 134 74.40% 56.5 73.20% 19.7 72.40% 74.90 3 Bene 72.92% 393 72.30% 186 73.51% 51 70.21% 72.63 Table 2. Experiment results Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering \(ICEBE  05 0-7695-2430-3/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE In addition, decision makers in financial institution certainly pay more attentions to those rules that predict bad clients, which will be extraordinary costly if they are regarded as good ones 5. Conclusion Intensity of implication is proposed in the beginning as an interestingness measure for association rules Another novel interestingness measure called dilated chi-square is designed by us to reveal the statistical interdependence between the antecedents and consequents of association rules We then adapt CBA algorithm, which can be used to build classifiers based on class association rules, by coupling it with intensity of implication and dilated chi-square respectively. More concretely, Intensity of implication \(or dilated chi-square primary criterion to rank class association rules at the first step of the database coverage pruning procedure in CBA algorithm. Experiments on three credit scoring datasets proved that these two adapted algorithms compared with original CBA, classical C4.5 decision tree and neural network, achieve satisfactory performance and generates classifiers much more compact than CBA 6. Acknowledgement The work was partly supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China \(70231010/70321001 7. References 1] Wang, K. and S. Zhou, Growing decision trees on support-less association rules. in KDD'00. 2000. Boston,MA 2] Liu, B., W. Hsu, and Y. Ma, Integrating Classification and Association Rule Mining. in the 4th International Conference on Discovery and Data Mining. 1998. New 


Conference on Discovery and Data Mining. 1998. New York,U.S 3] Dong, G., et al, CAEP:Classification by aggregating emerging patterns. in 2nd International Conference on Discovery Science,\(DS'99 Artificial Intelligence. 1999. Tokyo,Japan: Springer-Verlag 4] Liu, W., J. Han, and J. Pei, CMAR: Accurate and efficient classification based on multiple class-association rules. in ICDM'01. 2001. San Jose, CA 5] Yin, X. and J. Han, CPAR:Classification based on predictive association rules. in 2003 SIAM International Conference on Data Mining \(SDM'03 Fransisco,CA 6] Agrawal, R. and R. Srikant, Fast algorithm for mining association rules. in the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases. 1994. Santiago,Chile 7] Agrawal, R., T. Imielinski, and A. Swami, Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases. in the ACM SIGMOID Conference on Management of Data 1993. Washington,D.C 8] Guillaume, S., F. Guillet, and J. Philippe, Improving the discovery of association rules with intensity of implication Principles of Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 1998 1510: p. 318-327 9] Janssens, D., et al, Adapting the CBA-algorithm by means of intensity of implication. in the First International Conference on Fuzzy Information Processing Theories and Applications. 2003. Beijing, China 10] Gras, G. and A. Lahrer, L'implication statistique: une nouvelle methode d'analysis de donnees. Mathematiques Informatique et Sciences Humaines n 20, 1993 11] Suzuki, E. and Y. Kodratoff, Discovery of  surprising exception rules based on intensity of implication. in PKDD'98. 1998. Berlin: Springer 12] Mills, F., Statistical Methods. 1955: Pitman 13] Lan, Y., et al, Dilated Chi-square: A novel interestingness measure to build accurate and compact decision list. in International conference on intelligent information processing. 2004. Beijing,China 14] Quinlan, J.R., C4.5 programs for machine learning 1993: Morgan Kaufmann 15] Witten, I.H. and E. Frank, Data Mining: practical machine learning tools and techniques with Java implementations. 2000: Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco 16] Fayyad, U.M. and K.B. Irani, Multi-interval discretization of continuous valued attributes for classification learning. in the Thirteenth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence \(IJCAI Chambery,France: Morgan Kaufmann 17] Blake, C.L. and C.J. Merz, UCI repository of machine learning databases http://www.ics.uci.edu/~mlearn/mlrepository.htm]. 1998 Irvine,CA:University of California, Dept. of Information and Computor Science 18] Dietterich, T.G., Approximate statistical tests for comparing supervised classification learning algorithms Neural Computation, 1998. 10\(7 Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering \(ICEBE  05 0-7695-2430-3/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


