Proceeding of NLP-KE'O5 Privacy Preserving Association Rule Mining with Scalar Product Yiqun HUANG Zhengding LU and Heping HU School of Computer Science and Technology Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan Hubei 430074 P.R China Email yiqunhuang@hotmail.com Abstract One crucial aspect of distributed data mining is privacy preserving Secure multiparty computation SMC is a useful approach to solve privacy preserving in distributed data mining When data is vertically partitioned scalar product is a feasible tool to securely discover frequent itemsets of association rule mining We first show that several of 
the private scalar product protocols and analysis their insecurity Then we develop a new and efficient protocol to perform two-party scalar product with an untrusted third party The method is described in detail in this paper with complete analysis to demonstrate its effectiveness Our protocol maintains integrity and high security of the data sets of each party while keeping communication and computation cost low I INTRODUCTION Data mining technology is a kind of knowledge discovery in large databases Normally the databases are often located in different sites A centralized warehouse is 
necessary to access all the data However privacy concerning laws may restrict this approach Privacy preserving data mining has emerged as a promising direction to solve the problem Basically there are two methods up till now One is the data perturbation approach 1][2][3][4 It changes all the data to new values before centralization and then mines the encrypted data Afterwards reconstruction is used to retrieve the same or similar result based on the real values It still falls in the category of centralized data mining The other method is based on secure multiparty computation SMC 
5][6][7][8 9][10][11][15][16 It employs distributed algorithms in a secure manner namely distributed data mining Both methods incorporate cryptography with data mining no matter whether the algorithm is centralized or distributed In these two secure approaches revised algorithms are adopted to operate on secured data to achieve the same data model generated by the original non-secure approach SMC is a kind of distributed computation conducted cooperatively by several parties Moreover each party prefers keeping their private data from the others while obtaining the final and correct result The 
pure secure multiparty computation requires that each party share nothing except the final result However as data mining usually works on large number of data with various and complex processes it is 0-7803-9361-9/05/$20.00 02005 IEEE necessary for protocols to be practical and efficient Thus leakage of partial and intermediate information during computation is acceptable so as to achieve acceptable performance and correct result for each party Namely private SMC protocols for privacy preserving data mining should solve to contradictions between 1 privacy and data mining 2 security and cost of 
computation and communication When data is vertically partitioned scalar product of vectors from different sites is used to discover frequent itemsets of association rule mining Until recently many practical solutions have been found to securely solve scalar product between two parties Basically there are two kinds of methods to perform scalar product One is completely taken between two parties 6][11 16 and the other is with the help a third party 8][11][12 The third party may undertake part of the computation and generates variables to hide data items of the two parties Additionally there exists method with 
homomorphic public-key cryptosystems 15 However as the public key cryptography is computationally demandingly the cost of computation and communication become the downside of the scalar protocol protocols 15 This paper is organized as follows In Section 2 the scalar product problem is defined Then we describe three existing methods which solve the problem linearly and completely take between two parties We also give an analysis and show the insecurity of the methods In Section 3 we introduce a new and practical method to perform secure computation of scalar product with an 
untrusted third party The protocol is efficient and secure to each party with a permutation approach Then in Section 4 we analyze the security communication and computation cost of our new protocol Finally in Section 5 we conclude our paper II THE SCALAR PRODUCT TO FIND THE FREQUENT ITEMSETS AMONG THREE PARTIES In this section we look at the scalar product problem present the formal definition based on the literature and describ three methods for completely secure computation of scalar product that are widely adopted in current applications 750 


A  r r R  R 2 In the above protocol party A generates its private random vector R i.e R1  Rn Party B generates its private random vector R i.e R  R  Notation A and B represent the corresponding computation performed by party A and B respectively Matrix C i.e ci,j  is known to both parties Vector X of party A is encrypted to a new vector in X each value is Xi xi  Ycij Rj  Similarly j=1 vector Y of party.B is hidden to form another new vector Y n each value is Yi cj yj  R r Besides n i--l i+int j1 randoms of R are compressed to r randoms of Rn_-r each n value is Rn-r   t _____ A simplified computation of formula 2 is as follows 7  j  Yi n n Rj  cij  j=l   ya xi 1cj l+int 0 j 1 A Definition of two-party scalar product for private preserving association rule mining Most algorithms for the association rule are divided into two steps Firstly find out the frequent itemsets Secondly get the association rule from the frequent itemsets When data is vertically partitioned scalar product dot product is used to find the frequent itemsets of association rule mining The two-party scalar product is given as follows There exist two parties A B and C Assume A has a vector X  x xn  B has a vector Y  y1  Yn All of them want to keep their private information while gaining the result of the following scalar product n X.Y xi*yi.min sup 1 it=1 In the above formulas min-sup is the required minimum support of an association rule B Three existing algebraic approaches to compute scalar product privately a Method I The protocol is given by V Jaideep and C Clifton 6 We summarized the approach as the following formula n X Y xi Yi i=l n X y  Sxi  yi i=l 3 xiE xi ci j  Rj i-l  yi i=l  j=l A _ B LZRJ fIEc  yj L 1 i=1 A As formula 3 shows only party A needs to generate a new random vector R i.e R1  Rr In formula 2 A has 2n unknowns and n+r equations revealed And B are n+r unknowns and n equations revealed In formula 3 A has n+r unknowns and n equations revealed And B has n unknowns and r equations revealed The security for both parties relies on the condition that the number of equations is smaller than the number of unknowns In both protocols when r=n/2 A and B maintain equal degree of privacy Otherwise the security of A is improved at the expense of B v.v Thus if n/2 values are disclosed at both sides all the data will be revealed The computation cost is o\(n2  The bitwise communication cost is o\(n b Method II The method is given by W Du and Z Zhan 1 1 as follows Let matrix X belongs to A Matrix Y belongs to B They contain n elements from vector X and Y respectively A and B design a common matrix M  M is an invertible n by n matrix in real domain Let M 1 be the inverse matrix of M A computes XM and divide it in half as X X B computes M 1 Y and divides it in half as Y Y 751 


There exists X  Y  XMM-'Y  XY X Y Therefore B sends Y to A and A sends X to B A performs X Y B performs X_  Y  Then by adding X.*YF toX Y X Y Y can be achieved Similarly the security of this protocol also relies on the inability of either side to solve n/2 equations in n unknowns Still if n/2 values are disclosed at both sides all the data will be revealed The computation cost is o\(n2  The bitwise communication cost is o\(n c Method III The method is given by I loannidis et al.[16 as follows Let sxs  s  2  random matrix Q and sx\(n+1 matrix X belong to A All the elements inside X except the ones in row r are randoms Set xr,1  X1 Xr,n  Xn 9 Xr,\(n+l 1 Assume ql,l Q kqs,l  ql,s qS'Ss xs Xi x sr,i x,I Xr,n+1 Xs,nA i=1;i*r j--l to A Xi represent each column of matrix X  We show matix C as follows b xq  b xr xl b bs T bC rx-1  br l Xr-l  Xr+Ln br+l 1 n bs Kbj  xl  br-I XrL,4l x,+l,4+1 br+l  Xs,n+l bs Besides A chooses Ix n 1 random matrix f 4,4 Then QX q,,1 1 q x  s  f  fn+l  and three randoms R1,R2,R3 Set I X n  1 matrixes C and g C'=C+f*R1*R2 g=f*R,*R3 Then R zC'Y  gYy  z-CY R__ _ _ _ i=1 br b Scalar product X  Y can be gained from the following steps Step 1 A sends sx\(n+l matrix QX  lx\(n+l matrixes C and g to B Step 2 B compute a=z-CY and h=gY Then B sends values a and h to A z C'Y  gy R2 Step 3 A computes p  and sends  br to B Step 4 B computes B-a and sends the result to A 752 I Xt n q1s Xs qs,1 N1 q x1 q*,1 ss qJ xs Let n+I matrix Y belongs to B Set Yn+1 a Assume Y Y  Yn Yn+1   n+l Let s x matrix QXY  z1   and s s s b qel br q,,r  bs q,,s Then i=l i=l a=l s Z zi i=1 b1 xII  b5 X,I b  I,n+I    bs  X n+l  Yn+l bl*x,i+-*-+br i*xrr,,i+br+i*Xr+,,i b3 xs bk x brl Xr,ln br+I Xr+l,n1 bs X,,n  bl  x n+l   br-i Xr lXn+l br+I  Xr+l,n+l   b5  xs n+l  br Xrl YI  Xr,n Yn Xr,n+l Yn+l r bi  bH x xS1 b xs b x  r-4 4 x b Xsn bs Yn k*xl  r49 Xrl XrI4 b  Xsn4l bs wYn+lo n kbr J yi br ar i4 Let lx\(n+1 matrix C E Xfqj 16 belongs 


When m n the computation cost is o\(n3  The bitwise communication cost is O n2  In the above algorithm party B discloses only two values a and h Thus it is quite secure For party A it makes matrixes QX C and g public We give an analysis of the leakage of the information as below QX has s2 sx\(n+l unlkowns It seems that n values of vector X is hidden by QX However by adding each column of matrix QX respectively we get the following I x n  1 matrix b  xl   b  x  bi  x  bs S By subtracting lx n  1 matrix C from the above matrix we get the following 1x n  1 matrix b x R b f*A R b f I*R br r-f1 2 brX,,-Sn 0 Sbrf-.lR As xr,\(n+l 1 we get 1 x n  1 matrix as below br xrl fi R  br X R br-f R R Besides B also know matrix VI*A 9  fn I*R3 brfr*I.*R4 The above two matrixes have 2n  5 unknowns br  XI  Xn fi     fn+i  RI R2 R3 and provide 2n  2 equations Besides from step 3 and the final result party B has another 2 equations Thus n values of vector X can be easily exposed Party A is absolutely insecure d Limitations of the above approaches All the above protocols are completely algebraic They are easy to implement However the protocols of method I and II are not completely private as the information seen in the protocol along with externally learning half of the private values reveals the other half 8 Only 1/2 unknowns security can be gained Moreover a clever choice matrix C for method I is impossible in general 15 For method III it is secure for one side and completely insecure for another The security of the three methods is based on the inability of either side to solve k equations in more than k unknowns 6 Accordingly the more the security is required the more the equations provided during communication for each side should be much smaller than the number of unknowns But it seems impossible from the above protocols as the security of practical SMC gained is at the cost of computation and communication Besides not only should a secure protocol be safe by itself But also it should be private during the multiple usages for data mining Furthermore exposing a n dimensional vector n times in scalar product computation will reveal it fully Thus we should make more parties undertake part of the computation Besides due to the nature of algebraic computation information is statistically revealed by the protocol Then we should add nonlinear processes for the protocol of scalar product In section 3 we give a new way of private scalar product protocol with an untrusted third party Most of the computation is also algebraic except the permutation processes which cost low Ii A PRIVATE SCALAR PRODUCT PROTOCOL WITH UNTRUSTED THIRD PARTY In this section we first give a SMC model with an untrusted third party Then a new algorithm for scalar product based on this model is described in detail A third party has been used in a Secure Multi-party Computation either as the commodity server model which only generates data for other parties or a participant which performs part of the computation of the whole protocol The trust requirements of the third party is that it 8 1 not collude with any of the participating parties to violate information privacy and 2 correctly executes the protocol Figure 1 shows a practical and efficient SMC model with an untrusted third party While it is a two-party problem the ideas may readily extend to more parties The third party is given some information in encrypted form It performs a computation on the encrypted values and sends the result to the local parties e.g A or B Then A and B decrypt the result and exchange limited middle computation result From all values received one of the parties can gain the final result Figure 1 Untrusted third party SMC Model 753 


By encryption the third party learns nothing about the original data in the absence of collusions with the local sites Besides as the local parties only communicate limited information they can keep their private data Even with collusions a secure protocol using such kind of SMC model can protect privacy of each party Based on the above untrusted third party SMC model we construct a private scalar product protocol The purpose of our protocol is to keep the n values of xi xn from party B yl   Yn from party A However n the two parties want to gain the result of xi  y  i=1 Assume A has 1 x m m  2 random matrix D and mxn matrix X as follows x1,l D  d  dm x  xr,l L r,n  Xm,n All the elements inside X except the ones in row r are also random values Set Xr,I  X1  Xrn  Xn  Assume B has n x 1 matrix Y viz Y as follows Y Yl  Yn DXY[d dr*1 dr dX IY dr x*y X*Yn Let A has n x I matrix C cl cn Viz C as follows C l Xr-l,I Xr+I,l X,,MI X-I,n r+1,n Xn Then there exist X   DXY CY dr Accordingly party A and B together decide on a random permutation r of n elements that is known only to them They also generate a common random vector R R1,***,Rn  Now with the third untrusted party U X Y can be obtained through the following algorithm Step 1 A generates matrixes D and X Then computes DX and send it to B Besides via D and X A generates vector C and send r\(C to U Step 2 B generates a random value a  Then computes a\(Y   and sends ir    to U Step 3 U computes  C G7  Y  R and sends i to B Step 4 B computes z  DXY 3 a and sends z to A Step 5 A computes  C  R and sends the result to B IV SECURITY COMPUTATION AND COMMUNICATION ANALYSIS We present the algorithm analysis for our new protocol described in Section 3 The advantages of our algorithm are as follows it is a practical and secure approach Besides as most of the computation is algebraic except the permutation process the protocol is easy to implement A Security analysis In our scalar product protocol the private n values belong to each side is secure to any other sides As to party U vector C does not contain values of X U does not know the permutation r  R and a  Thus it learns nothing of X Y and the final result X  Y  As to party A n values of vector X is hidden in m  m x n unknowns of DX  As to party B it provides only one value z to A Besides to avoid the leakage of information of X and Y during multiple usage of the protocol all the randoms in D X R a and permutation r should be changed each time the same vector X or Y is reused Accordingly under the collaboration of the third party and permutation processes which is nonlinear and random A and B can keep their private values of X and Y to each other B Communication and Computation analysis We give an analysis of communication and computation cost as follows 1 At step 1 A generates m x n  m-n randoms performs m x n multiplications and additions and changes the order of n values Besides A sends n values to B and U respectively 2 At step 2 B generates 1 random a  performs n multiplications and additions and changes the order of n values Besides B sends n values to U 3 At step 3 U performs n multiplications and additions and sends one value to B 4 At step 4 B performs n multiplications and sends 1 754 Xm,l xl,n  Xr 


value to A 5 At step 5 A performs n multiplications 1 division and 1 subtraction Besides A sends 1 value to A Thus when m  n the protocol requires 0\(n additions and multiplications When m  n the protocol requires o\(n2 additions and multiplications The bitwise communication cost is a\(n All the computations except the permutation process which cost low are simple algebraic operations Both the computation and communication cost is acceptable V CONCLUSIONS Scalar product has been a feasible technique to find the frequent itemsets of association rules This paper first describes several linear protocols of private scalar product for privacy preserving data mining and analyzes their security limitation Then a new method with an untrusted third party is presented It is an efficient protocol with good individual security and low cost of communication and computation REFERENCES 1 R Agrawal and R Srikant Privacy-preserving data mining In Proceeding of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD Conference on Parallel Processing Vancouver British Columbia Aug 2002 755 on Management of Data ACM Dallas TX pp.439-450 May 2000 2 D Agrawal and C Aggarwal On the design and quantification of privacy preserving data mining algorithms In Proceedings of the 20h ACM SIGACT-SIGMOD-SIGART Symposium on Principles of Database Systems pp 247-255 May 2001 3 A Evfimievski J Gehrke and R Srikant Privacy preserving mining of association rules In Proceedings of the 8th ACM SIGKDD Intemnational Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining pp 217-228 July 2002 4 H Polat and W Du Privacy-preserving collaborative filtering using randomized perturbation techniques In Proceedings of 3rd IEEE Intemnational Conference on Data Mining pp 625-628 Nov 2003 5 Y Lindell and B Pinkas Privacy preserving data mining In Advances in Cryptology-CRYPTO 2000 pp 36-54 August20-24 2000 6 Jaideep Vaidya and Chris Clifton Privacy preserving association rule mining in verdcally pardtioned data In Proceedings of the Eighth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Edmonton Alberta Canada pp 639-644 July 2002 7 C Clifton M Kantarcioglu X Lin J.Vaida and M Zhu Tools for privacy preserving distributed data mining SIGKDD Explorations vol 4 no 2 pp 28-34 Jan 2003 8 Jaideep Vaidya and Chris Clifton Leveraging the Multi in Secure MultiParty Computation WPES'03 Washington 2003 9 Rakesh Agrawal Tomasz Imielinski and Arun N Swami Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases In Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD Intemational Conference on Management of Data Washington D.C May 26-28 pp 207 1993 10 Rakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant Fast algorithms for mining association rules In Proceedings of the Twentieth International Conference on Very Large Data Bases Santiago Chile VLDB pp 487-499 Sept 12-15 1994 11 W Du and Z Zhan A practical approach to solve secure multi-party computation problems In New Security Paradigms Workshop 2002 Virginia Beach Virginia USA pp 127-135 Sept 2002 12 D Beaver Commodity-based cryptography extended abstract In Proceedings of the 29'1 annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing ACM Press pp 446-455 1997 13 A Prodromidis P Chan and S Stolfo Advances in Distributed and Parallel Knowledge Discovery chapter 3 Meta-learning in distributed data mining systems Issues and approaches AAAIIMT Press Sept 2000 14 M Kantarcioglu and C Clifton Privately computing a distributed k-nn classifier In Proceedings of Eighth European Conference on Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases Pisa Italy Sept 2004 15 Bart Goethals Sven Laur Helger Lipmaa and Taneli Mielikainen On Private Scalar Product Computation for Privacy-Preserving Data Mining Information Security and Cryptology ICISC2004 Seoul Korea pp 104-120 Dec 2-3,2004 16 I loannidis A Grama and M Atallah A secure protocol for computing dot-products in clustered and distributed environments In the 2002 International Conference 


my mcdor    lday mcdow day mndol Figure 6 Change of similarity for the adaptive system with different sliding window lengths 5 Conclusion We presented an adaptive framework for an intru sion detection system that uses fuzzy association rule mining We introduced technical issues that need to he addressed to develop an adaptive intrusion detection system The framework was supported by some encour aging experimental results We showed that false alarms are issued if the profile is not changed at all or is always changed regardless of the traffic pattern There was one occasion when our new system issued a false positive that we could not explain One drawback of the data collection process was that we assumed that the first week\222s data that was used to build the initial profile represented normal activities only There was no way knowing if abnormal behavior had occurred If it did it was incorporated as a part of the normal behavior There are some issues that we plan to investigate in the future We worked with only a single profile In an actual working environment it would he necessary to develop different profiles for different times of the day or different periods of the week e.g weekends For example we can have two different profiles for a sin gle day, one for daytime hours, one for nighttime hours Again we have not addressed the problem where a time window contains both intrusive data and non-intrusive data representing a behavioral change We need to perform some drill-down operations to individual rules to distinguish between intrusive and non-intrusive pat terns There is also another area in which adaptation could be applied The system performance is sensitive to the fuzzy parameter values The system in its cur rent status works with a static set of fuzzy membership function parameters determined at the Keginning But these values could also be tuned dynamically References l R Agrawal T Imielinski and A Swami 223Min ing association rules between sets of items in large databases\224 Proc SIGMOD\22293 Washington D.C May 2628 1993 pp 207-216 2 R Agrawal and A Swami 224Fast algorithms for mining association rules\224 Proc VLDB\22294 Santi ago Chile September 12-15, 1994 pp 487-.199 131 S Bridges and R Vaughn 223Fuzzy data mining and genetic algorithms applied to intrusion detec tion\223 Proc 23rd Nat\222l Information Systems Secu rity Conf Baltimore MD October 16-19 2000 4 D Cheung J Han V Ng and C Wong 223Main tenance of discovered association rules in large databases An incremental updating technique\224 Proc ICDE\22296 New Orleans LA February 26  March 1 1996 pp 106-114 5 D Cheung S Lee and B Kao 223A general incre mental technique for updating discovered associa tion rules\222\222 Proc DASFAA\22297 Melbourne Aus tralia April 1-4 1997 pp 185-194 6 M Hossain 223Data mining approaches for intrusion detection Issues and research directions\223 Proc IASTED SEA\2222000 Las Vegas NV November 6 9 2000 pp 205-210 71 W Lee S Stolfo and K Mok 223Mining audit data to build intrusion detection models\224 Proc KDD\22298 New York City NY August 27-31 1998 pp 66-72 SI W Lee and S Stolfo 223Data mining approaches for intrusion detection\224 Proc 7th USENIX Security Symp SECURITY 22298 San Antonio TX Jan uary 2629 1998 pp 79-94 191 J Luo and S Bridges 223Mining fuzzy association rules and fuzzy frequency episodes for intrusion de tection\224 Int J intelligent systems Vol 15 No 8 pp 687-703 2000 lo R Mukkamala J Gagnon and S Jajodia 223Inte grating data mining techniques with intrusion de tection\224 Proc 13th Ann IFIP WG 11.3 Working Conf on Database Security Seattle WA July 26 28 1999 ll L Nandlal N Sarda, and V Srinivq 223An a,dap tive algorithm for incremental mining of association rules\224 Proc DEXA\22298 Vienna Austria August 24-28 1998, pp 240-245 12 C Rainsford M Mohania and J Roddick 221\221Incre mental maintenance techniques for discovered clas sification rules\224 Proc CODAS\22296 Kyoto Japan December 5-7 1996 pp 281-284 13 S Thomas S Bodagala K Alsabti and S Ranka 223An efficient algorithm for the incremental upda tion of association rules in large databases\224 Proc KDD\22297 Newport Beach, CA, August 14-17 1997 pp 263-266 3103 


Confidenee  0 ote  i U 0 pmoFe MM,atOW 1 Normnalized number 0  X r ofoccuerence C Fig 8 Increasing or decreasing of the confidence of a track From 1 the confidence Y-coordinate is reported 2 3 on the equivalent normalized number of event X-coordinate Then we decrease or increase the value 4 and report it on the confidence axis 01~~~~~~~~~~1 0 2 0.4 eo 0.8 normalized number of occurrence Fig 9 From the figure 8 template curves are generated with Bezier functions That allows to have pessimistic   0.5 or optimistic D  0.5 strategies for the tracking VIII CONCLUSION We have presented the Gruyer and Royere framework This tool allows to realize a tracking with a management of tracks appearance and disappearance In this framework the decision is taken according to a global belief criteria This decision is good when the conflict is weak but if it is not the case some local suspicious associations can appear We present in this article a method based on a MHT approach to avoid these suspicious associations Two tree generation strategies have been developed The proposed system allows to filter the false alarms Thus the higher levels are not aware of these false alarms but by an internal MHT treatment the system keeps the suspicious targets and analyzes them in the time with the use of virtual objects REFERENCES 1 R K Ahuja T L Magnanti and J B Orlin Network Flows Theory Algorithms and Applications Prentice-Hall 1993 2 A Appriou Multi-signal discrimination by the belief theory De'cision et reconnaissance des formes en signal Traite IC2 Information Commande Communication Edition Hermes 2002 Fig 10 The global system can took two different decisions according two different procedures The decision in the informative mode removes the suspicious association whereas the internal mode keeps this association in order to treat them 3 Y Bar-Shalom Multi-target Multi-sensor tracking  Applications and Advances vol.II Artech House 1992 4 Y Bar-Shalom Multitarget-Multisensor tracking Applications and Advances voLIII Artech House 1999 5 S Blackman and R Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House 1999 6 D Gruyer and V Cherfaoui Multi-objects association in perception of dynamical situation In Fifteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence Stockholm Sweden 30 July I August 1999 7 D Gruyer C Royere and V Cherfaoui Heterogeneous multicriteria combination with partial or full information In Fusion Cairns Australia July 2003 8 S Jouannin Data association and fusion Application to localization and tracking with embedded intelligent vehicle radar PhD thesis university Blaise Pascal of Clermont-Ferrand 1999 9 H W Kuhn The hungarian method for assigment problem Nay Res Quart 2 1955 10 M Rombaut Decision in multi-obstacle matching process using dempster-shafer's theory In AVCS'98 pages 63-68 Amiens France 1998 11 C Royere D Gruyer and V Cherfaoui Data association with believe theory In Fusion Paris France July 2000 12 V Schmidlin Multi-sensors muti-targets tracking with neurals networks Application to air targets PhD thesis Nice-Sophia Antipolis University 1994 13 Ph Smets Belief functions In Non-standard logics for automated reasoning pages 253-286 Academic Press Londres 1988 E.MAMDANI H.DuBoIs et H.PRADE 14 Ph Smets Belief functions the disjunctive rule of combination and the generalized bayesian theorem International Journal of Approximate Reasoning 9:1-35 1993 15 Ph Smets Managing the combination of conflicting belief functions 2004 16 Albena Tchamova Jean Dezert Tzvetan Semerdjiev and Pavlina Konstantinova Target tracking with generalized data association based on the general DSm rule of combination In Per Svensson and Johan Schubert editors Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Information Fusion volume I pages 392-399 Mountain View CA Jun 2004 International Society of Information Fusion 929 


 170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397   180 0.569 0.611 0.472 0.486   190 0.494 0.553 0.529 0.588   200 0.314 0.372 0.267 0.314   Avg. 0.379 0.413 0.406 0.443  The comparison of average precision of top-20 on ten topics is listed in Table 4. The measures of keyword-based models \(tfidf and pr number of 0.4. Whereas the figures of pattern-based models \(PTM-1 and PTM-2 be over 0.5. This implies that both PTM models improve the precision of the top returned documents Table 4. Average precision of top20 ranked documents on the ten topics  tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   Avg. 0.400 0.406 0.505 0.515  Figure 3 illustrates the effect of introducing the pattern-based methods on the P/R curves on the topic 110, which can represent the trend of all topics. In Figure 3, as the PTM models are applied, their P/R curves lift up and indicate the improvement of performance made by the PTM models 6. Related work and conclusion Mining sequential patterns has been extensively studied in data mining community since the first research work in [1]. The earlier studies which focused on the large size of retail datasets have developed several Apriorilike algorithms in order to solve the problem of discovering sequential patterns from such databases However, the Apriori-like algorithms only perform well in databases consisting of short frequent sequences [17 This is caused by the fact that it is quite time-consuming to generate nTerms sequences candidates from \(n1 disadvantage of Apriori-like algorithms [1], a variety of algorithms such as PrefixSpan [17], SPADE [25 SLPMiner [22] and GST [12] have been proposed. In order to improve the efficiency, each algorithm pursues a different method of discovering frequent sequential patterns, which makes them featured by the capability of mining such patterns without even generating any candidates With respect to the representation of the content of documents, some research works have used phrases rather than individual words [21]. However, the effectiveness of the text mining systems was not improved very much. The likely reason is that, a phrasebased method has  lower consistency of assignment and lower document frequency for terms  21]. Hence, in this paper, we present a novel concept for mining text documents for sequential patterns. Instead of using single words, we use pattern-based taxonomy to represent documents. By pruning meaningless patterns which have been proven to be the source of the  noise   in this study, the problem of  overfitting  is solved and the experimental results which show the encouraging outcomes are achieved 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Recall Pr e c is 


is io n PTM-2 PTM-1 Pr tfidf Figure 3. Precision/Recall curves on Topic110 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Some future research works can be conducted based on the results of this research. To improve the accuracy one major direction is to extract and use the interesting information from negative or unlabeled documents. The weighting scheme of discovered patterns can then be optimized References 1] R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant  Mining sequential patterns  Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Data engineering \(ICDE  95 pp. 3-14 2] H. Ahonen, O. Heinonen, M. Klemettinen, and A I. Verkamo  Applying data mining techniques for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections  Proceedings of the IEEE Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries \(ADL  98 1998, pp. 2-11 3] M. L. Antonie and O. R. Zaiane  Text document categorization by term association  ICDM02 Maebashi City, Japan, 2002, pp. 19-26 4] Y. Bi, T. Anderson, S. McClean  A rough set model with ontologies for discovering maximal association rules in document collection   Knowledge-Based Systems vol.16, 2003, pp. 243251 5] G. Chang, M.J. Healey, J. A. M. McHugh, and J T. L. Wang, Mining the World Wide Web: an information search approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001, pp. 192 6] D. A. Evans, et al., CLARIT experiments in batch filtering: term selection and threshold optimization in IR and SVM Filters, TREC02 2002 7] R. Feldman, et al  Text mining at the term level  Lecture Notes in AI 1510: Principle of data mining and knowledge discovery, SpringerVerlag, 1998, pp. 65-73 8] R. Feldman and H. Hirsh  Mining associations in text in presence of background knowledge   KDD96, 1996, pp. 343-346 9] D. A. Grossman and O. Frieder, Information retrieval algorithms and heuristics, Kluwer Academic publishers, Boston, 1998 10] K. M. Hammouda and M. S. Kamel  Phrasebased document similarity based on an index graph model  Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 pp. 203-210 11] J. D. Holt and S. M. Chung  Multipass algorithms for mining association rules in text databases  Knowledge and Information Systems vol.3, 2001, pp. 168-183 12] Y. Huang and S. Lin  Mining sequential patterns using graph search techniques  Proceedings of the 27th Annual Int. Computer Software and Applications Conf. \(COMPSAC  03 2003, pp. 4-9 13] Y. Li, C. Zhang, and J. R. Swan  An information filtering model on the Web and its application in 


filtering model on the Web and its application in JobAgent  Knowledge-based Systems 13\(5 2000, pp. 285-296 14] B. Liu, Y. Dai, X. Li, W. S. Lee, and P. S. Yu  Building text classifiers using positive and unlabeled examples  ICDM03, 2003, pp. 179186 15] B. Liu, Y. Ma, and Philip S. Yu, Discovering business intelligence information by comparing company Web sites, in: N. Zhong, J. Liu and Y Y. Yao \(eds  Web Intelligence  SpringerVerlag, 2003, pp. 105-127 16] J. Mostafa, W. Lam, and M. Palakal  A multilevel approach to intelligent information filtering: model, system, and evaluation  ACM Transactions on Information Systems 15\(4 1997, pp. 368-399 17] J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, H. Pinto, Q Chen, U. Dayal, and M. Hsu  PrefixSpan Mining sequential patterns efficiently by prefixprojected pattern growth  Proceedings of Int Conf. on Data Engineering \(ICDE  02 Heidelberg, Germany, 2001, pp. 215-224 18] M. F. Porter  An algorithm for suffix stripping   Program 14\(3 19] S. Robertson and I. Soboroff, The TREC 2002 Filtering Track Report, NIST Special Publication: SP 500-251 \(TREC-2002 20] T. Rose, M. Stevenson, and M. Whitehead  The Reuters Corpus Volume1 - From yesterday  s news to today  s language resources  Proceedings of the 3rd Inter. Conf. on Language Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Spain 2002 21] F. Sebastiani  Machine learning in automated text categorization  ACM Computing Surveys Vol. 34, No.1, 2002, pp. 1-47 22] M. Seno and G. Karypis  SLPMiner: An algorithm for finding frequent sequential patterns using length-decreasing support constraint   Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int. Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 23] P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  TSP: Mining top-K closed sequential patterns  ICDM03 2003, pp. 347-354 24] X. Yan, J. Han, and R. Afshar  CloSpan: mining closed sequential patterns in large datasets   Proceedings of SIAM Int. Conf. on Data Mining SDM 03 177 25] M. Zaki  SPADE: An efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences  Machine Learning vol. 40, 2001, pp. 31-60 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


