html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">Automatic  Pattern-Taxonomy Extraction for Web Mining Sheng-Tang Wu      Yuefeng Li      Yue Xu      Binh Pham      Phoebe Chen School of Software Engineering and Data Communications Queensland University of Technology, QLD 4001, Australia School of Information Technology Deakin University, VIC 3125, Australia E-mail: st.wu@student.qut.edu.au, {y2.li, yue.xu, b.pham}@qut.edu.au, phoebe@deakin.edu.au Abstract In this paper, we propose a model for discovering frequent sequential patterns, phrases, which can be used as profile descriptors of documents. It is indubitable that we can obtain numerous phrases using data mining algorithms. However, it is difficult to use these phrases effectively for answering what users want Therefore, we present a pattern taxonomy extraction model which performs the task of extracting descriptive frequent sequential patterns by pruning the meaningless ones. The model then is extended and tested by applying it to the information filtering system. The results of the experiment show that pattern-based methods outperform the keyword-based methods. The results also indicate that removal of meaningless patterns not only reduces the cost of computation but also improves the effectiveness of the system 1. Introduction Web mining, when looked upon in data mining terms is to cluster, associate and analyze the information from the Web data sources. Due to the rapid growth of Web data and the increasing need of a more sensible and rational search system, Web mining has gained an important status in the data mining field It is obvious that a Web mining system would be valuable once it is capable of quickly and accurately responding to the users  needs. However, the process of mining useful patterns from a large size of Web database takes a long time. Furthermore, there is only a small amount of input data that are related to a certain user or a group of users. As a result, it is necessary to quickly filter out the most irrelevant data first, further process the filtered data and then return the most relevant documents that fit the users  needs. According to this new methodology, a Web mining system will include two phases: filtering and sophisticated data processing  Filtering  is to filter out those most irrelevant documents which are retrieved from the search systems, and its aim is to speed up the process of text extraction. Whereas, the  sophisticated data processing  phase is to overcome the problem of mismatch by adopting diverse mining techniques in order to achieve the effectiveness of a Web mining system Many term-based filtering models have been presented before \(see [6] [16] [13] [19 we mainly discuss the phase of sophisticated data processing. We put the emphasis on the improvement of accuracy of a Web mining system, which means the relevance of the retrieved documents to the users  needs is much more concerned. Different from the filtering phase which is based on  term  or  keyword  the phase of  sophisticated data processing  has utilized a sort of sequential patterns, called phrases, to do the text processing Association mining has been used in Web text mining, which refers to the process of searching through unstructured data on the Web and deriving meanings from it [8] [11]. The main purposes of text mining include association discovery, trends discovery, and event discovery [5]. The association between a set of keywords and a predefined category \(e.g., a term be described as an association rule. The trends 


be described as an association rule. The trends discovery means the discovery of phrases, a sort of sequential association rules. The event discovery is the identification of stories in continuous news steams Usually clustering based mining techniques are used for such purpose. It is also necessary to combine association rule mining with the existing taxonomies in order to determine useful patterns [7] [4 Another worth-mentioned issue is that comparing to probabilistic models, data mining-based Web mining models do not use the term independent assumption [3 14].  In addition, Web mining models try to discover some unexpected useful data [15] [5]. It is not very difficult for the discovery of phrases from documents if we view each paragraph as a transaction. The problem we especially concern in this paper, is how to represent the relationships between phrases in order to use the phrase effectively. One interesting method for this problem is to use a document index graph \(DIG  where each node is a unique word, and each edge is a two adjacent nodes which appear successive in a document. The drawback of this method is that a DIG may index some nonsense phrases In this research we use sequential patterns [1] to represent phrases. In order to create correct phrase Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE taxonomy for representation of discovered knowledge we introduce a concept for describing the relation between discovered phrases, which is similar to the notion of closed sequential patterns [23] [24]. A frequent sequential pattern mining algorithm is then presented and experiments are also conducted in order to evaluate our results The rest of this paper is structured as follows: the problem formulation is stated in Section 2. Followed is the description of the pattern taxonomy model in Section 3. Then in Section 4, the results of experiment are evaluated. We finally conclude and summarize this study in Section 5 2. Problem formulation Instead of the keyword-based concept used in the traditional document representation model, the patternbased model containing frequent sequential patterns single term or multiple terms same concept of task. This section will define the basic problem of mining sequential pattern in text documents 2.1. Basic definition The basic definition of sequences used in this study is described as follows. Let T = {t1, t2  tk} be a set of all terms, which can be viewed as keywords in text d a t a s e t s   A  s e q u e n c e  S         s n    s i    T   i s  a n  o r d e r e d  l i s t  o f  t e r m s   A  s e q u e n c e         a n   i s  a  s u b s e q u e n c e  o f  a n o t h e r  s e q u e n c e     b 1   b 2   m   d e n o t e d  b y         i f  t h e r e  e x i s t  i n t e g e r s  1    i 1   l t   i 2   l t      l t   i n    m   s u c h  t h a t  a 1    b i 1   a 2    b i 2      b i n   T h e  s e q u e n c e    i s  a  p r o p e r  s u b s e q u e n c e  o f    i f        b u t       d e n o t e d  b y         F o r  i n s t a n c e   s e q u e n c e   A   C   i s  a  s u b s e q u e n c e  o f  s e q u e n c e s   A   B   C    H o w e v e r    B  A   i s  n o t  a  s u b s e q u e n c e  o f   C   s i n c e  t h e  o r d e r  o f  terms is considered. In addition, we also can say s e q u e n c e   A   B   C   i s  a  s u p e r s e q u e n c e  o f   A   C    T h e  problem of mining sequential patterns is to find the complete set of sub-sequences from a set of sequences whose support is greater than a user predefined threshold, min_sup Definition 2.1 \(absolute and relative support document d = {S1, S2  Sn}, where Si is a sequence representing a paragraph in d. Let P be a sequence. We call P a sequential pattern of d if there is a Si ?d such t h a t  P    S i    T h e  a b s o l u t e  s u p p o r t  o f  P   d e n o t e d  a s  


t h a t  P    S i    T h e  a b s o l u t e  s u p p o r t  o f  P   d e n o t e d  a s  s u p p a  P        S    S      S      i s  t h e  n u m b e r  o f  occurrences of P in d. The relative support of P is the fraction of paragraphs that contain P in document d denoted as suppr\(P P F o r  e x a m p l e   t h e  s e q u e n t i a l  p a t t e r n  P     C   the sample database \(Table 1 P suppr\(P Table 1.  Sequences in a document Paragraph ID Sequence 1 &lt; A, B, C, D &gt 2 &lt; B, D, E, C &gt 3 &lt; C, F, A &gt 4 &lt; E, A, B, G, C &gt Definition 2.2 \(frequent sequential patterns sequential pattern P is called frequent sequential pattern if suppr\(p m i n i m u m  s u p p o r t   m i n _ s u p     F o r  e x a m p l e   l e t  m i n _ s u p      0  7 5  f o r  t h e  d o c u m e n t  shown in Table 1; we can obtain four frequent s e q u e n t i a l  p a t t e r n s    B   C     A    B    a n d   C   s i n c e  t h e i r  r e l a t i v e  s u p p o r t s  a r e  n o t  l e s s  t h a n    The purpose of using min_sup in our model is to reduce the number of patterns discovered in a large document.  Otherwise these patterns with lower relative support will increase the burden of the training Removing less significant patterns will save much computation time without affecting the performance very much. An example is given in Section 5 \(see Table 2 sequential patterns left after using min_sup Definition 2.3 \(maximum sequential patterns frequent sequential pattern P is a maximal sequential pattern if there exists no frequent sequential pattern P such that P  P? and suppa\(P P For instance, the nodes in Figure 1 represent sequential patterns extracted from Table 1. Only the patterns within the dash-line borders are maximum s e q u e n t i a l  p a t t e r n s  i f  m i n _ s u p      0  5 0   Definition 2.4 \(nTerms pattern sequential pattern P, denoted as len\(P number of words \(or terms pattern which contains n terms can be denoted in short as nTerms pattern F o r  i n s t a n c e   g i v e n  p a t t e r n  P     C    w e  h a v e  l e n  P  2,  and P is a 2Terms pattern. Although a sequential pattern consists of several terms \(words is a sort of special nTerms pattern in this study In this research, we concentrate on applying data mining techniques on the area of Web mining. We discover frequent sequential patterns from a text document collection \(a training set pattern taxonomy model \(PTM relationship between patterns. The details of PTM are described in Section 3. We then utilize the knowledge extracted from pattern taxonomy to replace the concept used in keyword-based document representation model Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 3. Pattern taxonomy model In this paper, we present a new pattern-based model PTM \(Pattern Taxonomy Model of text documents. Pattern taxonomy is a tree-like structure that illustrates the relationship between patterns extracted from a text collection. An example of pattern taxonomy is shown in Figure 1. The arrow in this figure indicates the sub-sequence relation between p a t t e r n s   F o r  e x a m p l e   p a t t e r n   A   B   i s  a  s u b s e q u e n c e  o f  p a t t e r n   A   B   C    a n d  p a t t e r n   B   i s  a  s u b s e q u e n c e  o f  p a t t e r n   B   C    T h e  r o o t  o f  t h e  t r e e  i n  t h e  b o t t o m  level represents one of the longest patterns \(i.e 


level represents one of the longest patterns \(i.e maximum sequential patterns constructed, we can easily find the relationship between patterns. The next step is to prune the meaningless patterns in the pattern taxonomy Definition 3.1 \(closed relation pattern P1 is a closed pattern of P2 if P2 is a frequent s e q u e n t i a l  p a t t e r n   P 1   P 2    a n d  s u p p a  P 1    suppa \(P2 0 The objective of pruning phase is to eliminate the meaningless patterns. As can be seen in the Figure 1 p a t t e r n   B   i s  a  c l o s e d  p a t t e r n  o f   A   B   C    T h a t  means they always appear in the same paragraph Therefore, the shorter one \(i.e., pattern &lt;A, B&gt negligible and is considered as a meaningless pattern We keep the longer one since it is more meaningful and carry more information than the shorter one. Thus, after the pruning phase, only the significant patterns remain in the pattern taxonomy. An example is given in Section 5 \(see Table 2, the last column frequent sequential patterns left after applying pruning scheme Figure 1. Partial pattern taxonomy for the sample database, those patterns within the dash-line borders are representative The  pattern  used as a word or phrase in this paper is extracted from the text documents. The algorithm that performs the extraction of frequent sequential patterns is shown in Algorithm 3.1. Two parameters are needed for the method  SPMining  The first parameter PL is a list of nTerms frequent sequential patterns, which are generated from its previous recursions. The second parameter is min_sup, the predefined minimum relative support. Since the algorithm is a recursive function, the initial value of PL is the 1Term frequent patterns. For e x a m p l e     A    B    C    D     E    i s  t h e  i n i t i a l  v a l u e  o f  the parameter PL for the set of sequences in Table 1 Once obtaining the parameter PL from either the initial value or the previous recursions, we then get into the pruning step in the algorithm. The aim of this step is to eliminate the meaningless patterns using the closed r e l a t i o n   A s  s h o w n  i n  F i g u r e  2   t h e  p a t t e r n s   B    D    E    A   B    a n d   A   C   a r e  p r u n e d  s i n c e  a l l  o f  t h e m  a r e  closed patterns of their super-patterns \(fathers i n s t a n c e   p a t t e r n   B   h a s  f o u r  o f  s u p e r p a t t e r n s  a n d  t h e r e  e x i s t s  p a t t e r n   C   w h o s e  s u p p o r t  i s  t h e  s a m e  a s  p a t t e r n   B   s. The dash-line arrows in Figure 2 indicate that the linked patterns have the closed relation The followings are the definitions of two operations used in the algorithm: sequence extension and pprojected database Figure 2.  Illustration of pruning meaningless patterns Definition 3.2 \(sequence extension a sequence S, the sequence extension of S with term t simply appends t to S and generates a sequence S d e n o t e d  a s  S     S   F o r  i n s t a n c e   t h e  s e q u e n c e  e x t e n s i o n  o f   C   t e r m  B  i s  s e q u e n c e   A   C   B   Definition 3.3 \(p-projected database a p-projected database contains a set of sequences made of postfixes of p For example, in the sample database in Table 1, let p b e   A    t h e  p p r o j e c t e d  d a t a b a s e  w i l l  b e    B   C   D        B   G   C     I f  p  d o e s  n o t  a p p e a r  i n  a  p a r a g r a p h  o r  t h e  last term of p locates at the end of a paragraph, an empty sequence will be generated in the database lt; A, B &gt lt; A &gt;3 lt; B &gt;3 lt; C &gt;4 


lt; C &gt;4 lt; D &gt;2 lt; E &gt;2 lt; A, B &gt;2 lt; A, C &gt;2 lt; B, C &gt;3 lt; B, D &gt;2 lt; E, C &gt;2 A B E lt; A, B, C &gt;2 Pruning lt; A &gt;3 &lt; B &gt;3 &lt; A &gt;3 &lt; C &gt;4 &lt; B &gt;3 &lt; C &gt;4 lt; A, B &gt;2 &lt; A, C &gt;2 &lt; B, C &gt;3 lt; A, B, C &gt;2 sub-sequence Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Algorithm 3.1: SPMining\(PL, min_sup Input: the list of nTerms frequent sequential patterns PL; The minimum support threshold min_sup. \(Notice in the beginning, SP is the set of 1Terms frequent sequential patterns Output: a set of frequent sequential patterns SP Method 1    P a       P L  s u c h  t h a t  l e n   P a     l e n   P b   1    P a    suppa\(Pa Pb 2   S P      P L        a d d  f o u n d  p a t t e r n s     3   P L            P L     s e t  o f   n  1  T e r m s frequent sequential patterns 4 5 6 7   P    p   t       P     s e t  o f   n  1  T e r m s sequential candidates 8 P 9   P L       10 11 12 13 14 15 16 PL?, min_sup 17 18 After pruning, the nTerms frequent sequential patterns found from the previous recursion are stored step 2 in Algorithm 3.1 mine for the \(n+1 step 3-12 projected database. If the relative supports of the n+1 min_sup, we will store those patterns \(i.e., frequent n+1 if there exists at least one frequent \(n+1 and pass them as the value of the first parameter otherwise, the program returns. As a result, the output of the algorithm is the set of the frequent maximum sequential patterns. We can then simply skip the step 1 in the algorithm to find all the frequent sequential patterns without pruning SPMining adopts the concept of projected database method for extracting frequent sequential patterns from a document. The main difference between SPMining and others [17] [23], which adopt the same concept, is that SPMining deals with several sequences at a time whereas others only handle one sequence at a time 4. Application For the testing purpose, we apply the PTM on the user profile filtering task, which has mentioned in Section 1. For each topic, the system aims to filter out non-relevant incoming documents according to the user 


profiles. The system extracts knowledge from a training set for the user profiles, which consist of both relevant documents and irrelevant documents. Before starting to mine for patterns, data preprocessing is necessary in order to improve the efficiency. Removing stopwords and term stemming are adopted according to a given list of stop words and the Porter Stemming algorithm [18 Feature selection is based on the term  s tf*idf \(please see details in Section 5 the application, i.e. training and testing phases. The task of training phase is to find all frequent sequential patterns from entire training set and prune meaningless patterns using PTM for a certain topic. Once the patterns, which represent the user profiles \(or topic obtained using PTM from the training set, a feature vector \(i.e., centroid of the context of the topic, which consists of representative patterns extracted from the training set Given a discovered pattern P, the value of pattern P in the centroid is computed by the following weight function  bbb arelaa dinPDdd dinPDdd PW       where da and db denote the documents, D denotes the training set, and Drel ? D denotes the set of relevant documents in D. Once the centroid for a topic is obtained, we can test the system in the testing phase to find the most relevant documents related to the topic from the test set by ranking each of them. The higher the positions of the ranked documents, the more relevant they are with respect to the topic. We use a simple way to estimate the similarity between a test document and a centroid by summing the weights of patterns which appear in the document 5. Experimental evaluation In order to evaluate the effectiveness of the patternbased method proposed in this paper, we present the experimental results of using the pattern-based method in comparison with the keyword-based method. For keyword-based method, we elected to use two popular information retrieval techniques for calculation of term weights: tf*idf \(Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency Probabilistic The definition of tf*idf is described as follows. Let Drel be a set of relevant documents, Drel = {d1, d2  dn  d i    D    w h i c h  c o n t a i n s  d o c u m e n t s  w i t h  p o s i t i v e  judgment from a training set of a certain topic \(i.e these documents are relevant to the topic frequency TF\(d, t word o c c u r s  i n  d o c u m e n t  d   d    D r e l   a n d  t h e  d o c u m e n t  frequency DF\(t term t occurs at least once. The inverse document Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE frequency IDF\(t D | / DF\(t which scores low if term t occurs in many documents and scores high if it occurs in few documents. The weight of a term t then can be represented by tf*idf value which is calculated as W\(t d, t t Pr [9] is another scheme we chose for keywordbased method. Given a term t, the weight of t is calculated by the following formula 


calculated by the following formula    log  rRnN rn rR r tW     where N is the total number of documents in the training set, R is the number of relevant documents, n is the number of documents which contain t, and r is the number of relevant documents which contain t \(see [9 The following methods are used in our experiment  tfidf : the keyword-based model which using tf*idf scheme to calculate term weights  Pr: another keyword-based model which using keywords to represent the profile of documents  PTM-1: PTM model with min_sup = 0.2  PTM-2: PTM model with min_sup = 0.2 and with pruning 5.1. Real world datasets In an attempt to evaluate our algorithm, TREC \(Text Retrieval Conference benchmarks. The version of this data collection we chose is Reuters Corpus Volume 1 \(RCV1 includes 806,791 news stories. The English language stories are produced by Rueters journalists for the period between 20 August 1996 and 19 August 1997 These documents are formatted using a consistent XML schema TREC has developed and provided 100 topics for the filtering track aiming at building a robust filtering system [20]. The first 50 were composed by human researchers and the rest by intersecting two Reuters topic categories. Each topic is divided into two sets training and test, and the relevance judgments have also been given for each topic. The training set has a total amount of 5,127 news stories with dates up to and including 30 September 1996 and the test set contains 37,556 news stories from the rest of news of the collection. As mentioned above, stories in both sets are assigned to either positive or negative  Positive  means the story is relevant to the assigned topic; otherwise  negative  will be shown. We chose ten topics \(topic 110, 120  200 number of documents of each topic 1 http://trec.nist.gov 2 http://about.reuters.com/researchandstandards/corpus 5.2. Results evaluation The measures used for evaluating experimental results are precision/recall \(P/R the precision of top-20 returned documents. The precision is the fraction of retrieved documents that are relevant to the topic, and the recall is the fraction of relevant documents that have been retrieved. These two measures are denoted by the following formulas FPTP TPprecision   FNTP TP recall   


 where TP \(true positives the system correctly identifies as positives; FP \(false positives identifies as positives; FN \(false negatives number of relevant documents the system fails to identify Table 2. Number of patterns for ten topics with different constraints applied in the test set frequent sequential patterns Topic # docs       0  2      0  2   a m p  p r u n i n g  110 491 9,977 5,784 5,252 120 415 5,395 3,933 2,959 130 307 4,128 1,948 1,845 140 432 16,688 4,007 3,227 150 371 8,492 5,022 3,646 160 199 4,032 2,060 1,929 170 507 12,239 6,649 4,745 180 426 26,098 2,023 1,794 190 337 4,382 2,780 2,085 200 277 3,227 1,996 1,251 Total 3,762 94,658 36,202 28,733 Avg. P/R 0.409 0.406 0.443  w h e r e    i s  a  m i n _ s u p  Therefore, the higher the figures of both precision and recall curves, the more effective the system is. The P/R breakeven point indicates the value at which precision equals recall. The larger the measure scores the better the system performs. The precision of top-K returned documents is another important measure which refers to the relative value of relevant documents in the first K returned document The results of P/R breakeven point of ten topics are listed in Table 2, which shows that the improvement is achieved by using PTM with pruning. As the min_sup  increases, the average value of P/R breakeven point of ten topics reduces slightly from 0.409 to 0.406. This Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE means that the effects of these pruned patterns are not significant since their supports are relatively smaller than the remained patterns. The performance is obviously enhanced by applying the pruning scheme as we can see the measure of P/R breakeven value increased from 0.406 to 0.443. This is caused by the fact that the noises of meaningless patterns are reduced as they are pruned. By using combination of min_sup and pruning scheme as constraints, we can not only save computation time but also improve the accuracy Table 3 shows the precision of top-20 returned documents on each topic. It is obvious that the PTM-2 outperforms other three models as far as the average P/R breakeven point concerned. However, the measure of PTM-1 is even lower than the result of the keywordbased model Pr. The reason is that the  overfitting   caused by the meaningless patterns of PTM-1 influences the effectiveness of the system. Thus, in order to enhance the performance, the pruning scheme is required to be a part of the pattern-based models Table 3. Precision/Recall breakeven point for the ten topics  Topic tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   110 0.161 0.226 0.419 0.548   120 0.519 0.494 0.570 0.551   130 0.063 0.063 0.063 0.313   140 0.328 0.388 0.373 0.284   150 0.130 0.222 0.111 0.167   160 0.796 0.815 0.759 0.778   170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397  


 170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397   180 0.569 0.611 0.472 0.486   190 0.494 0.553 0.529 0.588   200 0.314 0.372 0.267 0.314   Avg. 0.379 0.413 0.406 0.443  The comparison of average precision of top-20 on ten topics is listed in Table 4. The measures of keyword-based models \(tfidf and pr number of 0.4. Whereas the figures of pattern-based models \(PTM-1 and PTM-2 be over 0.5. This implies that both PTM models improve the precision of the top returned documents Table 4. Average precision of top20 ranked documents on the ten topics  tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   Avg. 0.400 0.406 0.505 0.515  Figure 3 illustrates the effect of introducing the pattern-based methods on the P/R curves on the topic 110, which can represent the trend of all topics. In Figure 3, as the PTM models are applied, their P/R curves lift up and indicate the improvement of performance made by the PTM models 6. Related work and conclusion Mining sequential patterns has been extensively studied in data mining community since the first research work in [1]. The earlier studies which focused on the large size of retail datasets have developed several Apriorilike algorithms in order to solve the problem of discovering sequential patterns from such databases However, the Apriori-like algorithms only perform well in databases consisting of short frequent sequences [17 This is caused by the fact that it is quite time-consuming to generate nTerms sequences candidates from \(n1 disadvantage of Apriori-like algorithms [1], a variety of algorithms such as PrefixSpan [17], SPADE [25 SLPMiner [22] and GST [12] have been proposed. In order to improve the efficiency, each algorithm pursues a different method of discovering frequent sequential patterns, which makes them featured by the capability of mining such patterns without even generating any candidates With respect to the representation of the content of documents, some research works have used phrases rather than individual words [21]. However, the effectiveness of the text mining systems was not improved very much. The likely reason is that, a phrasebased method has  lower consistency of assignment and lower document frequency for terms  21]. Hence, in this paper, we present a novel concept for mining text documents for sequential patterns. Instead of using single words, we use pattern-based taxonomy to represent documents. By pruning meaningless patterns which have been proven to be the source of the  noise   in this study, the problem of  overfitting  is solved and the experimental results which show the encouraging outcomes are achieved 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Recall Pr e c is 


is io n PTM-2 PTM-1 Pr tfidf Figure 3. Precision/Recall curves on Topic110 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Some future research works can be conducted based on the results of this research. To improve the accuracy one major direction is to extract and use the interesting information from negative or unlabeled documents. The weighting scheme of discovered patterns can then be optimized References 1] R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant  Mining sequential patterns  Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Data engineering \(ICDE  95 pp. 3-14 2] H. Ahonen, O. Heinonen, M. Klemettinen, and A I. Verkamo  Applying data mining techniques for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections  Proceedings of the IEEE Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries \(ADL  98 1998, pp. 2-11 3] M. L. Antonie and O. R. Zaiane  Text document categorization by term association  ICDM02 Maebashi City, Japan, 2002, pp. 19-26 4] Y. Bi, T. Anderson, S. McClean  A rough set model with ontologies for discovering maximal association rules in document collection   Knowledge-Based Systems vol.16, 2003, pp. 243251 5] G. Chang, M.J. Healey, J. A. M. McHugh, and J T. L. Wang, Mining the World Wide Web: an information search approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001, pp. 192 6] D. A. Evans, et al., CLARIT experiments in batch filtering: term selection and threshold optimization in IR and SVM Filters, TREC02 2002 7] R. Feldman, et al  Text mining at the term level  Lecture Notes in AI 1510: Principle of data mining and knowledge discovery, SpringerVerlag, 1998, pp. 65-73 8] R. Feldman and H. Hirsh  Mining associations in text in presence of background knowledge   KDD96, 1996, pp. 343-346 9] D. A. Grossman and O. Frieder, Information retrieval algorithms and heuristics, Kluwer Academic publishers, Boston, 1998 10] K. M. Hammouda and M. S. Kamel  Phrasebased document similarity based on an index graph model  Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 pp. 203-210 11] J. D. Holt and S. M. Chung  Multipass algorithms for mining association rules in text databases  Knowledge and Information Systems vol.3, 2001, pp. 168-183 12] Y. Huang and S. Lin  Mining sequential patterns using graph search techniques  Proceedings of the 27th Annual Int. Computer Software and Applications Conf. \(COMPSAC  03 2003, pp. 4-9 13] Y. Li, C. Zhang, and J. R. Swan  An information filtering model on the Web and its application in 


filtering model on the Web and its application in JobAgent  Knowledge-based Systems 13\(5 2000, pp. 285-296 14] B. Liu, Y. Dai, X. Li, W. S. Lee, and P. S. Yu  Building text classifiers using positive and unlabeled examples  ICDM03, 2003, pp. 179186 15] B. Liu, Y. Ma, and Philip S. Yu, Discovering business intelligence information by comparing company Web sites, in: N. Zhong, J. Liu and Y Y. Yao \(eds  Web Intelligence  SpringerVerlag, 2003, pp. 105-127 16] J. Mostafa, W. Lam, and M. Palakal  A multilevel approach to intelligent information filtering: model, system, and evaluation  ACM Transactions on Information Systems 15\(4 1997, pp. 368-399 17] J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, H. Pinto, Q Chen, U. Dayal, and M. Hsu  PrefixSpan Mining sequential patterns efficiently by prefixprojected pattern growth  Proceedings of Int Conf. on Data Engineering \(ICDE  02 Heidelberg, Germany, 2001, pp. 215-224 18] M. F. Porter  An algorithm for suffix stripping   Program 14\(3 19] S. Robertson and I. Soboroff, The TREC 2002 Filtering Track Report, NIST Special Publication: SP 500-251 \(TREC-2002 20] T. Rose, M. Stevenson, and M. Whitehead  The Reuters Corpus Volume1 - From yesterday  s news to today  s language resources  Proceedings of the 3rd Inter. Conf. on Language Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Spain 2002 21] F. Sebastiani  Machine learning in automated text categorization  ACM Computing Surveys Vol. 34, No.1, 2002, pp. 1-47 22] M. Seno and G. Karypis  SLPMiner: An algorithm for finding frequent sequential patterns using length-decreasing support constraint   Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int. Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 23] P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  TSP: Mining top-K closed sequential patterns  ICDM03 2003, pp. 347-354 24] X. Yan, J. Han, and R. Afshar  CloSpan: mining closed sequential patterns in large datasets   Proceedings of SIAM Int. Conf. on Data Mining SDM 03 177 25] M. Zaki  SPADE: An efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences  Machine Learning vol. 40, 2001, pp. 31-60 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


