html><head></head><body><pre style="word-wrap: break-word; white-space: pre-wrap;">2004 IEEE  International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics Generating Hierarchical Fuzzy Concepts from Large Databases Been-Chian Chien Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National University of Tainan Tainan 700, Taiwan, R.0.C bcchien@ipx.ntntc.edu.tw Abstract - A concept hierarchy is a kind of concise and general form of knowledge representations. Concept description is vague for human knowledge generally. Crisp description for a concept usually cannot represent human knowledge completely and practically. In this poper, we will study fuzzy characteristics of concept description and propose an agglomerative clustering scheme based on f izzy theory to generate hierarchicalhzzy concepts@om a large database automatically. The proposed method first transfonns quantitative data into linguistic terms using h z z y  membership functions. The f izzy entropy is then designed for evaluating the signifcant order of attributes and a clustering algorithm is developed to find meaningful fizzy concept hierarchies effectively Keywords: Data mining, knowledge discovery, fuzzy concept hierarchy, fuzzy entropy, cluster 1 Introduction As the rapid growth of data, extracting knowledge from large databases has become one of the most important research issues. Many techniques have been developed to mine useful knowledge from databases in the research area of knowledge discovery. The objective of knowledge discovery is to examine how to extract knowledge automatically from huge database or training data. The discovered knowledge from a large practical database can be applied to many applications, such as decision-making marketing, information management, and so on. For different applications, the different types of knowledge lead to lots of methodologies in the development of data mining techniques [4]. For example, the Apriori algorithm for miniig association rules [l], classification leaming algorithms for decision trees construction [lo] and unsupervised leaming algorithms for clusters generation 7]. Regardless of the mining approaches involved, we can imagine the various types of discovered knowledge as the concepts leamed from databases based on different viewpoints Representing mined knowledge to users is also an important research topic. The discovered knowledge can be Chih-Hung Hu and Stem-J Hsu Department of Information Engineering, I-Shou University Kaohsiung 840, Taiwan, R.0.C m9203007@stmail.isu.edu.tw represented as various types of form such as association rules, decision trees, and so on. The concept hierarchy is a kind of concise and general form of concept description for representing knowledge. Many knowledge representations are variants of concept hierarchies in different ways of expression. For transaction databases, as an example association rules are the set of rules that describe the relative relationships of large item sets in a partial ordering hierarchy. A concept hierarchy is a tree-like structure that each level of the hierarchy is a sequence of mapping from a set of low-level specific concepts to a set of high-level general concepts, as the example shown in Figure 1. The most general concept in the root is a universal concept whereas the most specific concepts correspond to the specific values of amibutes in the database. Each internal node in the tree of concept hierarchy represents a concept which helps to express knowledge and data relationships in a database 


a database Figure 1. A concept hierarchy of real data Food Level 0 0.8 e Vegetable Fwit Level 1 ypyq Spinach Cabbage Tomato Apple Level 2 Figure 2. A fuzzy concept hierarchy for real data 0-7803-8566-7/04/$20.00 0 2004 IEEE 3128 Traditional concept hierarchies usually reprcsent knowledge using crisp concept description. Hows:ver concept description for human knowledge is vague generally and' a crisp description of concept cannot represent human knowledge completely. For a concept fuzzy description should be more appropriate than \(crisp description in real world. For example, in Figure 2, a tomato is a kind of fruits and a tomato is also a kind of vegetables. A fuzzy concept hierarchy reflects the fact that an object or a concept can belong to more than one Mgh level concept with different membership degrees. Fuzzy concept hierarchies had been applied to data summarkition XI and the mining of association rules [9 For constructing concept hierarchies, many difixent methods have been developed. The fust kind of methods is to specify concept hierarchies by users, experts or data analysts according to a partial or total ordering semautics of attributes explicitly at the schema level. Another kirid of methods is that given a set of attributes, the system can then hy to generate the partial ordering of attributes automatically so as to construct a meaningful comept hierarchy [4]. The thud kind of methods is to defiae a portion of a concept hierarchy by clustering explicit data in databases. However, it is essentially unrealistic to define an entire concept structure by explicit values enumeration manually in a large database. Thus, most ofmethods ol'this kind focus on automatic generation of concepts by grouping data using clustering techniques. The related researches include Cluster12 by Michalski and Stepp I:lO COBWEB by Fisher [3], hierarchical and parallel clustering by Hong and Mao [ 5 ] ,  etc. We also proposed an approach [2] based on rough entropy to generate concept hierarchies automatically for a given data set with categorical attributes. Without knowledge of data semantics, generating a meaning concept hierarchy h m  a large database is a challenge Most of the previous methods of constructing concept hierarchies generate crisp concept hierarchies. However fuzzy knowledge representations or fuzzy rules are clften considered in real applications. The method to find fiuzy knowledge is an importaut task. The aim of this paper is to discuss fuzzy characteristics of clustering data and to generate hierarchical fuzzy concepts from a large database automatically. We propose an agglomerative clustering scheme based on fuzzy theory that first transtirms quantitative data into fuzzy linguistic terms using fiuzy membership functions. A fuzzy entropy is then designed for evaluating the importance of attributes. Based on the designed fuzzy entropy, we propose an efficient hierarchical clustering algorithm to remove a weak relevant attribute and group strong relevant concepts recursively for generating a fuzzy concept hierarchy The paper is organized as follows: In Section 2: we introduce the structure of fuzzy concept hierarchy and the fuzzy entropy. In Section 3, we presented the proposed clustering algorithm based on fuzzy entropy for generating fuzzy concept hierarchy. In Section 4, we give an example to help understanding the algorithm. Finally, conclusions and future work are discussed in Section 5 2 Fuzzy concept hierarchy and fuzzy entropy 2.1 The Fuzzy Concept Hierarchy  


 Level 1 C' I 6,  ...... c'k, \(HI  Level 1-1 ............... ...... 6 H Figure 3. Representation of a fuzzy concept hierarchy At fmt, we defme a fuzzy concept hierarchy \(FCH formally in the following. A hierarchical representation of fuzzy concept is illustrated as Figure 3, suppose that a hierarchy His  defmed on a set of domains Dl, .... D, and a C: . Ci . . . . .  C!, } denotes the set of concepts at the sequence of mapping Hi 3 H,., 3  3 Ho, where H primitive level with m attributes in domains {Dl x ... x Dm and Hi.i = { Ci-', C;-', .... C concepts at one level higher than those at H/. Assume that is a fuzzy set defioed on domain Di with the linguistic terms {til, tu, _ _ _  }, pg is the membership values in fi corresponding to the fuzzy term t,. The fuzzy set pican be represented as pi = c c V  Itg = pillti, +p&amp; + .... The k-th fuzzy concept in level 1 is defmed as Ci = @I, pz, ... pi and we can give the sets of fuzzy terms with strong membership grades in the fuzzy sets pj to represent the fuzzy concept of C i ,  called the representative concept RCL . For the relationships between the concept CL-' and its subordinate concept CL. , theff CL-' , CL degree of subsuming the concept CL, under the concept of CL-' . Ho represents the most general concept on the top level denoted as "ANT 3129 2.2 Fuzzy Entropy For evaluating the importance of attributes on the given data set X, we design a function of fuzzy entropy based on fuzzy set theory. Let X = {xl, x2, ... , x non-empty finite set of objects with a non-empty fmite set of attribute A= {Al, , , , , Ak, , . . , Am ofA, containing a set of linguistic terms \( t j l ,  fjz, ... }. We defme the fuzzy entropy E\(A Definition 1: Let x E X, the fuzzy entropy of information based on a set of attributes A is where pi , \(x thej-th linguistic term of i-th attrihute fq and vq is equal to the summation of pq \( x v.. 'I = &amp; \( x ItX As we defmed in Definition 1, the fuzzy entropy has monotonic property described as follows Theorem 1: Let B, B' c_ A .  If B ' d ,  then E\(B Proof. The values of fuzzy entropy E\(B x V .  ~~XA,GB'~,, p ,  1 Since B' c B, trivially, we have E\(B The concept is more general while the value of fuzzy entropy is smaller. Theorem 1 states the property that the fuzzy entropy decreases monotonously in accord with the generalization in higher levels of a fuzzy concept hierarchy 3 The algorithm of generating hierarchical fuzzy concept In this section, an algorithm of generating a concept hierarchy for a database with general attributes is proposed The symbols used in the proposed algorithm are defined in Section 3.1. In Section 3.2, we describe the computation of subordinate relationships and representative of fuzzy concepts. The proposed algorithm is described in Section 3.3 3.1 Notations in the following X The symbols used in our proposed method are defined A database with the set of attributes A = {A I The number of objects in X 


The number of objects in X The number of attributes in A Ab ... ,Ad n m P attributes contained in the set of attributes B, B L A 5 IBI The j-th set of reduced attributes, Bj E P,.\(B The number of attributes in B The k-th fuzzy concept in level 1. c pi, \(CL j-th linguistic term of the i-th attribute R C ~  : The representative concept of C 3.2 The computation of subordinate relationships and representative of fuzzy concepts The value of A CL-' , CL subsuming the concept CL. under the concept of CL-' that have been described in Section 2.1. We give the computation of the value f\( CL-' , CL have the set of reduced attribute B in level \(-1 where pij\(CL concept C: on the j-th linguistic term of i-th attribute, t The IBI is the number of B in level l-1. As the described in Section 2.1, we defme the representative concept RCL = \(rLl ,..., r&amp; ,..., r with the maximum membership value max{ pq\(C the fuzzy set pi on the fuzzy concept CL 3.3 The proposed hierarchy generating algorithm The algorithm for generating a meaningful fuzzy concept hierarchy with respect to a given database is described in the following eight main steps 3130 Input: A database Xwith the set of attributes A Output: A fuzzy concept hierarchy H Step 1: Transform the objects x E X with quantitative attributes into linguistic terms using the dehed fuzzy sets p; and fuzzy membership functions Step 2: Initialize the value m' = 1.41 Step 3:Generate the lowest level of fuzzy concept hierarchy H, with the set of attributes A .  That is H,= {Cy ,  CT, ... , Cnm} ,where C: = \(p,, p2, . . . , A and p; is the i-th fuzzy set of attribute Ai. The representative concepts of H ,  are RC: = \( r z  ,..., r{ ,.._, rc initial set of reduced attributes set B = A Step4:Let IBI be the number of attributes in the set of reduced attributes B, we set m' = IB/ - 1. Find P&amp which is the set of all possible subsets with m attributes in the set of reduced attributes B Step 5:Compute the fuzzy entropy E\(Bj B Step 6:Generate a higher level of fuzzy concept hierarchy 6.1 Bj P concepts RCT' in H,. The RCT' is obtained by merging the same representative concepts in the lower level H 6.2 the corresponding fuzzy concept C:'= \(p,, k pi, .,. , A membership grade for the merged filzzy concepts with the same representative concepts in Step 6.1 6.3 H,,+, is directly added into H Step 7:Calculate the degree of subordinate relationships A Cg',  C g and H,w 


and H,w Step &amp;Let the set of reduced attributes B = B'. If B # 0 then go to Step 4; otherwise, output all levels ofthe fuzzy concept hierarchy Ho, . , ., H The time complexity of the proposed algorithm is dependent on the number of attributes m in each concept level. The number of attributes is decreased after a new level is generated. Hence, the overall time complexity of H,. by the following sub-steps j the algorithm is bounded by 0 \(m2n the database 4 Anexample We give an example to explain the above algorithm more clearly. Assume that the example uses the weather data set with 14 objects as shown in Table 1. Let X =  {x x2, ..., XM}, A = {outlook, temperahue, humidity, windy play} .  The decision attribute is @lay}. The symbolic categories in the five attributes, respectively, are 0 outlook \(sunny, overcast, rainy 0 temperature: numeric 0 humidity: numeric 0 windy: {true, false 0 play: {yes, no We start the steps Table 1. The weather dataset L 7% 65 61 e6 7""- *".my Figure 4. The used membership function Input: The dataset in Table 1 Output: The fuzzy concept hierarchy H Step 1: Transform the objects x E X with quantitative attributes into linguistic terms using fuzzy membership functions as Figure 4 Step 2: Initialize the values of m'= 1.41 = 5 3131 Step 3: Generate the lowest level of concept hierarchy H with the set of attributes A .  Let B= {outlook temperature, humidiy, windy, p lay C: v Ci U ... v Cf4 , that C: =\(\(O/O+OR+l/S I/H+O/M+O/L 0.65/H 0.35/L OIT+lR ON+l/N Ci =\(\(O/O+OR+1/S 0.5/H+O.SIM+O/L 0.81/H 0.19/L I I T + O I F O/Y+I/N C:, =\(O/O+l/R+O/S O/H+O.641M+O.36/L 0.84 Step 4: We set m' = IBI - 1 = 4. Find P4 \(E of all possible subsets with 4 attrihutes in the set of reduced attributes B. P where B E 2 }  = \(outlook, humidiv, windy, play B3} = {outlook, femperature, windy, plqv B4 BSI = {outlook, temperature, humidity, windy H+ 0.16/L I/T+OIF O/Y+l/N Step 5 :  Compute the fuzzy entropy E \(B E E\({Bi B E\({&amp E4 E\({B5 H4 by the following three sub-steps 6.1 B BJ for Ej E P4 \(B E'=&amp;; then generate new representative concepts in H4: RC," is merged fromRC: and RC; , C: is merged from RC; and RC:, . The values of RC;' and RC; are showed in Table 3 6.2 corresponding fuzzy concept. For example RC," is merged from RC: and RC; . Hence C:=\(*, min\(O/H, 0.5RI 0.64M, 0.5M min\(0.36/L,O/L O.84/H, O.Sl/H min\(O.l6/L, 0.19/L l/T, UT 


min\(O/F, OR ON,OiY l/N W Step 6: Generate a higher level of fuzzy concept hierarchy The values of C," are showed in Table 3 6.3 H5, is directly added into H4. Thus H4 c:uc:uc:uc:uc:uc:uc,'uc:,uc:4 uc:uc Step 7: Calculate the subordinate relationships between each pair of concepts in H4 and Hs. For example n \(l-]&amp AisB WJ 0.81 I B'l f\(C;,C Step 8: The new set of reduced attributes is B = B temperature, humidiy, windy, play  4, then go to Step 4 The final result is shown in Figure 5 and Table 3. We only show the strong subordinate relationships in Figure 5 Table 2. The fuzzy set of weather dataset 5 Discussions and conclusions Knowledge discovely from a large database is an important research topic of late years. The concept hierarchy is an explicit representation of knowledge and can be widely used in many applications. In this paper, we present the structure of fuzzy concept hierarchy and propose an algorithm for generating the hierarchy based on fuzzy entropy. The algorithm can construct a meaningful fuzzy concept hierarchy automatically and represent fuzzy concepts with representative concepts and different grades of subsuming relationships among subordinate fuzzy concepts. The future work includes making experiments to evaluate the performance of fuzzy concept and labeling the significant concept from the hierarchy 3132 References I]  R. Agrawal, T. hielinski, and A. Swami  Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases  in Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD Internal Conference Management of Data, Washington D.C. May 1993, pp. 207-216 2] B. C. Chien, S. Y. Liao  Mining Categorical Concept Hierarchies in Large Databases  in Proceeding of the Seventh World Multiconference on Systemics, Cybem8:tics and Informatics, July 27-30, Orlando, Floridu, USA, 2003 3] D. Fisher  Improving Inference through Conceptual Clustering  in Proceedings of 1987 AAA1 Confereroes July 1987, Seattle Washington, pp. 461-465 4] J. Han and M. Kamber, Data Mining: Concept and Techniques, Morgan Kaufmann publishers, 2001 SI J. Hang and C. Mao  Incremental Discovely of Rules and Stmctnre by Hierarchical and Parallel Clustering   Knowledge Discovery in Databases, G. Piatetsky-Shapiro and W. J. Frawley, eds., pp. 177-193, AAAVMIT Press 1991 6] X. Hu, Knowledge Discovery in Databases: Atfritute Oriented Rough Set Approach, PhD thesis, University of Regina, Canada, 1995 7] G. Karypis, E. H. Han, and V. Kumar  Chamekon Hierarchical Clustering Using Dynamic Modeling  E E E Computer, Vol. 32, No. 8,1999, pp. 68-75 8] D. H. Lee and M.H. Kim, Database summarization using fuzzy ISA hierarchies, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man. and Cybemetics - part B, 27\(1 9] K.-M. Lee, Mining generalized fuzzy quantitstive association rules with fuzzy generalization hierarchies Proc. Joint 9th IFSA World Congress and 20th NAE  IPS Int  l Cod., Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2001,2977 -2982 10]R. S. Michalski and R. Stepp  Automated 


10]R. S. Michalski and R. Stepp  Automated Conshuction of Classifications: Conceptual Clustering Versus Numerical Taxonomy  IEEE Transactions Paltern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 1983, pp.396-410 I l l  J. R. Quinlan  Leaming Efftcient Classification Procedures and Their Application to Chess End-Games   Machine Leaming: An Artificial Intelligence Appro,ich Vol. 1, R. S. Michalski et al.\(&amp 1983, pp. 463-482 Table 3. The generated fuzzy concepts OM+O.SIM+OL OM+O,54/M+OL Figure 5. The fmal fuzzy concept hierarchy H 3133 pre></body></html 


verify the postulation behind our algorithm that an update usually only affects the status of a very small portion of the CET and the new branches grown because of an update is usually a very small subset of the CET We also studied the memory usage for Moment As shown in Figure 9\(b the average memory usage per closed frequent itemset actually decreases as the minimum support decreases This suggests that as the CET becomes larger it becomes more memory-ef\223cient in terms of memory usage per closed frequent itemset BMS-WebView-1 The second dataset we used is BMSWebView-1 which is a real dataset that contains a few months of clickstream data from an e-commerce web sites This dataset was used in KDDCUP 2000 There are 59,602 transactions in the dataset We set the sliding window size N to be 50,000 and do experiment on 100 consecutive sliding windows Other parameters are the number of distinct items is 497 the maximal transaction size is 267 and the average transaction size is 2.5    0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 10 2124 10 2122 10 0 10 2 Th e Minim u m Suppo r t  Running Time \(sec Charm Moment a   0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 10 2 10 4 10 6 10 8 Th e Minim u m Suppo r t  Total Number of Nodes CET nodes Closed Itemset b Figure 10 Performance for BMS-WebView-1 Figure 10\(a shows the running time for Moment and Charm From the 223gure we can see that because the average transaction size of this data set 2.5 is smaller than that of the previous synthetic dataset 20 the relative performance of Moment is even better\205it outperforms Charm by 1 to 2 orders of magnitudes Figure 10\(b shows the total number of nodes in the CET and the total number of closed itemsets As can be seen although both grow exponentially as the minimum support decreases the relative ratio between the two remains approximately the same which suggests that for real data the CET size is also linear in the number of closed frequent itemsets 5 Conclusion In this paper we propose a novel algorithm Moment to discover and maintain all closed frequent itemsets in a sliding window that contains the most recent samples in a data stream In the Moment algorithm an ef\223cient in-memory data structure the closed enumeration tree CET is used to record all closed frequent itemsets in the current sliding window In addition CET also monitors the itemsets that form the boundary between closed frequent itemsets and the rest of the itemsets We have also developed ef\223cient algorithms to incrementally update the CET when newly-arrived transactions change the content of the sliding window Experimental studies show that the Moment algorithm outperforms a state-of-the-art algorithm that mines closed frequent itemsets without using incremental updates In addition the memory usage of the Moment algorithm is shown to be linear in the number of closed frequent itemsets in the sliding window Acknowledgement We thank Professor Mohammed J Zaki at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute for providing us the Charm source code References 1 R C A g a r w a l C C A g g a r w a l  a n dV V V P r a s a d  At r e e projection algorithm for generation of frequent item sets Journal of rallel and Distributed Computing  61\(3 371 2001  R Agra w a l and R Srikant F ast algorithms for mining association rules In Proc of the 20th Intl Conf n Very Large Databases VLDB\32594  1994  T  Asai H Arimura K Abe S Ka w a soe and S Arika w a  Online algorithms for mining semi-structured data stream In Proc 2002 Int Conf n Data Mining ICDM\32502  2002  R J Bayardo Jr  E f 223ciently mining long patterns from databases In Proceedings of the M SIGMOD  1998  J H Chang and W  S Lee Finding recent frequent itemsets adaptively over online data streams In Proc of the 2003 Int Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining SIGKDD\32503  2003  M Charikar  K  Chen and M  F arach-Colton Finding frequent items in data streams In Proc of the 29th Int\325l Colloquium on Automata s and ramming  2002  D W  Cheung J Han V  Ng and C Y  W ong Maintenance of discovered association rules in large databases An incremental updating technique In Proceedings of the Twelfth International Conference on Data Engineering  1996  D W  Cheung S D Lee and B Kao A general incremental technique for maintaining discovered association rules In Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Database Systems for Advanced Applications DASFAA  1997  Y  Chi H W ang P  S Y u  a nd R R Muntz Catch the moment Maintaining closed frequent itemsets over a data stream sliding window Technical Report IBM 2004  C Giannella J Han E Robertson and C Liu Mining frequent itemsets over arbitrary time intervals in data streams Technical Report tr587 Indiana University 2003  K Gouda and M J Zaki Ef 223ciently mining maximal frequent itemsets In Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE Int\325l Conf on Data Mining  2001  C Hidber  Online association rule mining In Proc of the M SIGMOD int\325l conf n Management of data  1999  C Lee C Lin and M Chen Sliding-windo w 223ltering an ef\223cient algorithm for incremental mining In Proc of the int\325l conf n Info and knowledge management  2001  G Manku and R Motw ani Approximate frequenc y c ounts over data streams In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases  2002  W G T eng M.-S Chen and P  S Y u  A re gression-based temporal pattern mining scheme for data streams In Proceedings of 29th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases VLDB\32503  2003  J W a ng J Han and J  Pei Closet searching for the best strategies for mining frequent closed itemsets In Proc of the 2003 Int Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining SIGKDD\32503  2003  M J Zaki and C Hsiao Charm An ef 223cient algorithm for closed itemset mining In 2nd SIAM Int\325l Conf n Data Mining  2002  Z Zheng R K oha vi and L  Mason Real w orld per formance of association rule algorithms In Proc of the 2001 Int Conf Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining SIGKDD\32501  2001 8 Proceedings of the Fourth IEEE Internati onal Conference on Data Mining \(ICDM\22204 0-7695-2142-8/04 $ 20.00 IEEE 


 The required delivery date is a Range constraint any date within the next 30 days Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  today today+30 days Attribute S&H query\(UPS Product   say it is 59.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price  Attribute Total  Inter-attribute constraints in PO14 Price  Quantity  Value  1-x Total  Price  S&H  1.088 Total  Total1  Total4 In this case the Quantity attribute value has changed to 2 by adding both requests together Furthermore the Delivery-Date attribute value is a result of finding a common range of the two The obvious saving in this case is 2*$39.95 59.95\1.088  21.71 Whether a bunch of POs should be aggregated in a particular way depend on whether costing savings can be achieved while satisfying all the constraints 6.2 Intelligent Aggregation of Purchase Orders in e-Procurement with Negotiations Aggregation under dynamic negotiation is harder because supplier side could be revising its own strategies and parameters on the fly While human intervention in the aggregation process is possible we focus on automated aspects of the aggregation in this paper Suppose we have a simple supplier side rule buy one and get second one half price from LT a supplier of mice keyboard and trackball Suppose we have requests to buy Mice as follows PO5 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223B\224 User 223Joe\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/21/05 02/21/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H9  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product  Attribute Price10  Value  say it\222s 29.95 Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 PO6 Attribute Buyer  Organization 223C\224 User 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 1 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/28/05   a r an g e of dat e s  order dat e  deadline d Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  1 tax rate results in a value 29.95  4.95\1.088  39.97 6.2.1 PO Aggregation Under Negotiation The rule-based aggregation engine uses the Negotiation service to understand supplier\222s offers and tries to take advantage of the terms in the offers For example by aggregating PO5 and PO6 can be aggregated as follows PO56 Attribute Buyer  Organization B C User 223Joe\224 223Al\224 Location 223PS\224 Attribute Supplier  mpany 223LT\224 Catalog  http://\205/LT Attribute Product  223Optical Mouse\224 Attribute Quantity 2 Attribute Required-Delivery-Date  01/25/05 02/21/01 Attribute S&H10  query\(UPS Product   say it\222s 4.95 Attribute Value  query\(Catalog Product sayit\222s 29.95 per mouse Attribute Price10 1.5*Value Attribute Total10  Total10  Price10  S&H10  tax  1.5 29.95  4.95\1.088  54.26 A saving of 39.97  2 54.26  25.68 or over 32 of savings Note the changes of the 223Quantity\224 and 223RequiredDelivery-Date\224 attributes after aggregation The quantities are added up and the required delivered dates are merged for a common range Due to the constraints on object attributes aggregation may require complex constraint solving Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


7 Conclusions and Future Work This paper describes an Intelligent Aggregation facility in enterprise e-Procurement process This facility introduces an information model a rule-based aggregation engine corporate agreement policies and negotiation in aggregating large volume of POs in enterprise eprocurement to reduce cost and maximize efficiency This information model includes extensive use of constraints for and among attributes in a PO These constraints guard the integrity of POs as they are aggregated The intelligent aggregation facility can be inserted as a value-added service in the enterprise e-Procurement workflow An enterprise generates millions of POs every year but the number of distinct products and services the enterprise purchases is actually much smaller in the hundreds rather than in the millions This presents cost saving opportunities by aggregating POs that makes best use of terms and conditions in corporate agreements or supplier offers Some concrete examples are used to show the idea of automated aggregation and the opportunities in reducing procurement cost As millions of POs are generated even a small percentage of savings would mean substantial savings for large enterprises The ideas described in this paper have not been fully implemented in our prototype One area needs more work is the formal representation of policies in corporate agreements which would allow the aggregation engine to automatically explore aggregation opportunities before POs are made to suppliers Another is the semantic model of products which would enable more semantics-based aggregation of POs 8 References  e bX M L  h t t p   w w w ebxml  org  2 e n g  J  S u  S  Y  W  L a m H   a n dH e l a l S   223Achieving Dynamic Inter-Organizational Workflow Management by Integrating Business Processes Events and Rules,\224 Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences HICSS35 Hawaii USA January 2002 3 u  S  Y  W  L a m H   L e e  M  B a i S   a n dS h e n  Z   An Information Infrastructure and E-services for Supporting Internet-based Scalable E-business Enterprises Proceedings of the 5th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Seattle Washington USA September 2001 4 S u S Y  W   H ua ng C  H a mme r J   H u a ng Y   L i  H   Wang,L.,LiuY.,Pluempitiwiriyawej,C.,Lee,M and Lam H 223An Internet-based Negotiation Server for E-commerce,\224 VLDB Journal Vol 10 No 1 2001 pp.72-90 5 M o r r i s S l o m a n  223 P o l i c y D ri v e n M an ag em e n t f o r Distributed Systems\224 Journal of Network and Systems Management Plenum Press Vol 2 No 4 1994  M aarten S teen  J oh n D errick  223 For m ali s ing ODP Enterprise Policies\224 Proceedings of the 3 rd International nterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Mannheim Germany IEEE CS Press September 1999  J am e s H a ns on  Z oran M i l o s e v i c 223 C o n v e r s at i onOriented Protocols for Contract negotiations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003  S  N eal J  C ole P.F L i n i ng ton  Z  Milose v i c S Gibson S Kulkarni 223Identifying Requirements for Business Contract Language a Monitoring Perspective\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 9 T  D im itrak o s  I  D j o rd j e v i c Z  Milo sev i c A  J o san g  C Phillips 223Contract Performance Assessment for Secure and Dynamic Virtual Collaborations\224 Proceedings of the 7th International Enterprise Distributed Object Computing Conference Brisbane Australia IEEE CS Press September 2003 Proceedings of the 2005 Ninth IEEE International ED OC Enterprise Computing Conference \(EDOC\22205 0-7695-2441-9/05 $20.00 \251 2005  IEEE 


absolute values. The results can vary on other computers. But it can be guaranteed that performance ratio of the algorithms will remain the same After making the comparisons with sample data, we came to the conclusion that PD algorithm performs significantly better than the other two especially with larger datasets. PD outperforms DCP and PIP regarding running time. On the other hand, since PD reduces the dataset, mining time does not necessary increase as the number of transactions increases and experiments reveals that PD has better scalability than DCP and PIP. So, PD has the ability to handle the large data mine in practical field like market basket analysis and medical report documents mining 5. References 1] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, "Fast algoritlnns for mining association rules", VLDB'94, pp. 487-499 2] R. J. Bayardo, "Efficiently mining long patterns from databases", SIGMOD'98, pp.85-93 3] J. Pei, J. Han, and R. Mao, "CLOSET: An Efficient Algorithm for Mining Frequent Closed Itemsets \(PDF Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD International Workshop on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, Dallas, TX, May 2000 4] Qinghua Zou, Henry Chiu, Wesley Chu, David Johnson, "Using Pattern Decomposition\( PD Finding All Frequent Patterns in Large Datasets", Computer Science Department University of California - Los Angeles 5] J. Han, J. Pei, and Y. Yin, "Mining Frequent Patterns without Candidate Generation \(PDF  SIGMOD International Con! on Management of Data SIGMOD'OOj, Dallas, TX, May 2000 6] S. Orlando, P. Palmerini, and R. Perego, "The DCP algoritlnn for Frequent Set Counting", Technical Report CS2001-7, Dip. di Informatica, Universita di Venezia 2001.Available at http://www.dsi.unive.itl?orlando/TR017.pdf 7] MD. Mamun-Or-Rashid, MD.Rezaul Karim, "Predictive item pruning FP-tree algoritlnn", The Dhaka University  Journal of Science, VOL. 52, NO. 1, October,2003, pp. 3946 8] Park, J. S., Chen, M.-S., and Yu, P. S, "An Effective Hash Based Algoritlnn for Mining Association Rules", Proc ofthe 1995 ACM-SIGMOD Con! on Management of Data 175-186 9] Brin, S., Motwani, R., Ullman, J., and Tsur, S, "Dynamic Itemset Counting and Implication Rules for Market Basket Data", In Proc. of the 1997 ACM-SIGMOD Conf On Management of Data, 255-264 10] Zaki, M. J., Parthasarathy, S., Ogihara, M., and Li, W New Algoritlnns for Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Proc. of the Third Int'l Con! on Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data Mining, 283-286 11] Lin, D.-I and Kedem, Z. M., "Pincer-Search: A New Algoritlnn for Discovering the Maximum Frequent Set", In Proc. of the Sixth European Conf on Extending DatabaseTechnology, 1998 12] R. Ramakrishnan, Database Management Systems University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA; International Edition 1998 pre></body></html 


tors such as union, di?erence and intersection are de?ned for pairs of classes of the same pattern type Renaming. Similarly to the relational context, we consider a renaming operator ? that takes a class and a renaming function and changes the names of the pattern attributes according to the speci?ed function Projection. The projection operator allows one to reduce the structure and the measures of the input patterns by projecting out some components. The new expression is obtained by projecting the formula de?ning the expression over the remaining attributes [12 Note that no projection is de?ned over the data source since in this case the structure and the measures would have to be recomputed Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let ls be a non empty list of attributes appearing in pt.Structure and lm a list of attributes appearing in pt.Measure. Then the projection operator is de?ned as follows ls,lm c id s m f p ? c, p = \(pid, s, d,m, f In the previous de?nition, id ing new pids for patterns, ?mlm\(m projection of the measure component and ?sls\(s ned as follows: \(i s usual relational projection; \(ii sls\(s and removing the rest from set elements. The last component ?ls?lm\(f computed in certain cases, when the theory over which the formula is constructed admits projection. This happens for example for the polynomial constraint theory 12 Selection. The selection operator allows one to select the patterns belonging to one class that satisfy a certain predicate, involving any possible pattern component, chosen among the ones presented in Section 5.1.1 Let c be a class of pattern type pt. Let pr be a predicate. Then, the selection operator is de?ned as follows pr\(c p Join. The join operation provides a way to combine patterns belonging to two di?erent classes according to a join predicate and a composition function speci?ed by the user Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE Let c1 and c2 be two classes over two pattern types pt1 and pt2. A join predicate F is any predicate de?ned over a component of patterns in c1 and a component of patterns in c2. A composition function c pattern types pt1 and pt2 is a 4-tuple of functions c cStructureSchema, cDataSchema, cMeasureSchema, cFormula one for each pattern component. For example, function cStructureSchema takes as input two structure values of the right type and returns a new structure value, for a possible new pattern type, generated by the join. Functions for the other pattern components are similarly de?ned. Given two patterns p1 = \(pid1, s1, d1,m1, f1 p2 = \(pid2, s2, d2,m2, f2 p1, p2 ned as the pattern p with the following components Structure : cStructureSchema\(s1, s2 Data : cDataSchema\(d1, d2 Measure : cMeasureSchema\(m1,m2 Formula : cformula\(f1, f2 The join of c1 and c2 with respect to the join predicate F and the composition function c, denoted by c 1   F  c  c 2   i s  n o w  d e  n e d  a s  f o l l o w s    F  c  c 2     c  p 1   p 2   p 1    c 1  p 2    c 2  F   p 1   p 2     t r u e   5.1.3. Cross-over database operators OCD Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to 


Drill-Through. The drill-through operator allows one to navigate from the pattern layer to the raw data layer Thus it takes as input a pattern class and it returns a raw data set. More formally, let c be a class of pattern type pt and let d be an instance of the data schema ds of pt. Then, the drill-through operator is denoted by c c Data-covering. Given a pattern p and a dataset D sometimes it is important to determine whether the pattern represents it or not. In other words, we wish to determine the subset S of D represented by p \(p can also be selected by some query the formula as a query on the dataset. Let p be a pattern, possibly selected by using query language operators, and D a dataset with schema \(a1, ..., an ible with the source schema of p. The data-covering operator, denoted by ?d\(p,D responding to all tuples in D represented by p. More formally d\(p,D t.a1, ..., t.an In the previous expression, t.ai denotes a speci?c component of tuple t belonging to D and p.formula\(t.a1, ..., t.an instantiated by replacing each variable corresponding to a pattern data component with values of the considered tuple t Note that, since the drill-though operator uses the intermediate mapping and the data covering operator uses the formula, the covering ?\(p,D D = ?\(p not be equal to D. This is due to the approximating nature of the pattern formula 5.1.4. Cross-over pattern base operators OCP Pattern-covering. Sometimes it can be useful to have an operator that, given a class of patterns and a dataset, returns all patterns in the class representing that dataset \(a sort of inverse data-covering operation Let c be a pattern class and D a dataset with schema a1, ..., an pattern type. The pattern-covering operator, denoted as ?p\(c,D all patterns in c representing D. More formally p\(c,D t.a1, ..., t.an true Note that: ?p\(c,D p,D 6. Related Work Although signi?cant e?ort has been invested in extending database models to deal with patterns, no coherent approach has been proposed and convincingly implemented for a generic model There exist several standardization e?orts for modeling patterns, like the Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML  eling approach, the ISO SQL/MM standard [2], which is SQL-based, and the Common Warehouse Model CWM  ing e?ort. Also, the Java Data Mining API \(JDMAPI 3] addresses the need for a language-based management of patterns. Although these approaches try to represent a wide range of data mining result, the theoretical background of these frameworks is not clear. Most importantly, though, they do not provide a generic model capable of handling arbitrary cases of pattern types; on the contrary only a given list of prede?ned pattern types is supported To our knowledge, research has not dealt with the issue of pattern management per se, but, at best, with peripheral proximate problems. For example, the paper by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement 


per by Ganti et. al. [9] deals with the measurement of similarity \(or deviation, in the authors  vocabulary between decision trees, frequent itemsets and clusters Although this is already a powerful approach, it is not generic enough for our purpose. The most relevant research e?ort in the literature, concerning pattern management is found in the ?eld of inductive databases Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE meant as databases that, in addition to data, also contain patterns [10], [7]. Our approach di?ers from the inductive database one mainly in two ways. Firstly, while only association rules and string patterns are usually considered there and no attempt is made towards a general pattern model, in our approach no prede?ned pattern types are considered and the main focus lies in devising a general and extensible model for patterns Secondly, di?erently from [10], we claim that the peculiarities of patterns in terms of structure and behavior together with the characteristic of the expected workload on them, call for a logical separation between the database and the pattern-base in order to ensure e?cient handling of both raw data and patterns through dedicated management systems Finally, we remark that even if some languages have been proposed for pattern generation and retrieval 14, 11], they mainly deal with speci?c types of patterns \(in general, association rules sider the more general problem of de?ning safe and su?ciently expressive language for querying heterogeneous patterns 7. Conclusions and Future Work In this paper we have dealt with the issue of modelling and managing patterns in a database-like setting Our approach is enabled through a Pattern-Base Management System, enabling the storage, querying and management of interesting abstractions of data which we call patterns. In this paper, we have \(a de?ned the logical foundations for the global setting of PBMS management through a model that covers data patterns and intermediate mappings and \(b language issues for PBMS management. To this end we presented a pattern speci?cation language for pattern management along with safety constraints for its usage and introduced queries and query operators and identi?ed interesting query classes Several research issues remain open. First, it is an interesting topic to incorporate the notion of type and class hierarchies in the model [15]. Second, we have intentionally avoided a deep discussion of statistical measures in this paper: it is more than a trivial task to de?ne a generic ontology of statistical measures for any kind of patterns out of the various methodologies that exist \(general probabilities Dempster-Schafer, Bayesian Networks, etc. [16 nally, pattern-base management is not a mature technology: as a recent survey shows [6], it is quite cumbersome to leverage their functionality through objectrelational technology and therefore, their design and engineering is an interesting topic of research References 1] Common Warehouse Metamodel \(CWM http://www.omg.org/cwm, 2001 2] ISO SQL/MM Part 6. http://www.sql99.org/SC32/WG4/Progression Documents/FCD/fcddatamining-2001-05.pdf, 2001 3] Java Data Mining API http://www.jcp.org/jsr/detail/73.prt, 2003 4] Predictive Model Markup Language \(PMML http://www.dmg.org 


http://www.dmg.org pmmlspecs v2/pmml v2 0.html, 2003 5] S. Abiteboul and C. Beeri. The power of languages for the manipulation of complex values. VLDB Journal 4\(4  794, 1995 6] B. Catania, A. Maddalena, E. Bertino, I. Duci, and Y.Theodoridis. Towards abenchmark for patternbases http://dke.cti.gr/panda/index.htm, 2003 7] L. De Raedt. A perspective on inductive databases SIGKDD Explorations, 4\(2  77, 2002 8] M. Escobar-Molano, R. Hull, and D. Jacobs. Safety and translation of calculus queries with scalar functions. In Proceedings of PODS, pages 253  264. ACMPress, 1993 9] V. Ganti, R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke, andW.-Y. Loh A framework for measuring distances in data characteristics. PODS, 1999 10] T. Imielinski and H. Mannila. A database perspective on knowledge discovery. Communications of the ACM 39\(11  64, 1996 11] T. Imielinski and A. Virmani. MSQL: A Query Language for Database Mining. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2\(4  408, 1999 12] P. Kanellakis, G. Kuper, and P. Revesz. Constraint QueryLanguages. Journal of Computer and SystemSciences, 51\(1  52, 1995 13] P. Lyman and H. R. Varian. How much information http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/how-much-info, 2000 14] R.Meo, G. Psaila, and S. Ceri. An Extension to SQL for Mining Association Rules. Data Mining and Knowledge DiscoveryM, 2\(2  224, 1999 15] S. Rizzi, E. Bertino, B. Catania, M. Golfarelli M. Halkidi, M. Terrovitis, P. Vassiliadis, M. Vazirgiannis, and E. Vrachnos. Towards a logical model for patterns. In Proceedings of ER 2003, 2003 16] A. Siblerschatz and A. Tuzhillin. What makes patterns interesting in knowledge discovery systems. IEEE TKDE, 8\(6  974, 1996 17] D. Suciu. Domain-independent queries on databases with external functions. In Proceedings ICDT, volume 893, pages 177  190, 1995 18] M.Terrovitis, P.Vassiliadis, S. Skadopoulos, E. Bertino B. Catania, and A. Maddalena. Modeling and language support for the management of patternbases. Technical Report TR-2004-2, National Technical University of Athens, 2004. Available at http://www.dblab.ece.ntua.gr/pubs Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database  Management \(SSDBM  04 1099-3371/04 $ 20.00  2004 IEEE pre></body></html 


The reason of the hiding failure of SWA is the same in Fig.8 Notice the result at x = 0.7646 in Fig.14, because the hiding failure is occurred at the seeds of the sensitive patterns, a high weakness is produced As shown in Fig.15 and Fig.16, the misses cost and dissimil arity of our work decreases as RL2 increases. This is because the larger RL2 is, the less effect on non-sensitive patterns. Also weakness and dissimilarity of SWA are independent of RL2 5. Conclusion In the paper, a novel method improving the balance between sensitive knowledge protecting and discovery on frequent patte rns has been proposed. By setting entries of a sanitization matrix to appropriate values and multiplying the original database by the matrix with some probability policies, a sanitized database is gotten. Moreover, it can avoid F-I Attack absolutely when the confidence level given by users approximates to 1. The experimental results revealed that although misses cost and dissimilarity between the original and sanitized database of our process are little more than SWA, ours provide more safely protection than SWA. Unlike SWA, our sanitization process could not suffer from F-I Attack and the probability policies in our approach also take the minimum support into account, the users only need to decide the confidence level which affects the degree of patterns hiding 6. Reference 1] M. Atallah, E. Bertino, A. Elmagarmid, M. Ibrahim and V. Verykios Disclosure Limitation of Sensitive Rules", Proc. of IEEE Knowledge and Data Engineering Exchange Workshop 1999 2] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Fast algorithms for mining association rules. VLDB, Santiago, Chile, 1994 3] R. Agrawal and R. Srikant. Privacy preserving data mining. In ACM SIGMOD, Dallas, Texas, May 2000 4] E. Dasseni, V. Verykios, A. Elmagarmid and E. Bertino, Hiding Association Rules by Using Confidence and Support", Proc. of 4th Intl Information Hiding Workshop \(IHW 5] A. Evfimievski, J. Gehrke, and R. Srikant. Limiting Privacy Breac hed in privacy preserving data mining. SIGMOD/PODS, 2003 6] A. Evfimievski, R. Srikant, R. Agrawal, and J. Gehrke. Privacy preserving mining of association rules. KDD 2002 7] M. Kantarcioglu and C. Clifton. Privacy-preserving distributed mining of association rules on horizontally partitioned data. In ACM SIGMOD Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, June 2002 8] Guanling Lee, Chien-Yu Chang and Arbee L.P Chen. Hiding sensitive patterns in association rules mining. The 28th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference 9] Y. Lindell and B. Pinkas. Privacy Preserving Data mining. In CRYPTO, pages 36-54, 2000 10] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Privacy Preserving Frequent Itemset Mining. In Proc. of IEEE ICDM  02 Workshop on Privacy Security, and Data Mining 11] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Algorithms for Balancing Priv acy and Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Mining. IDEAS  03 12] S. R. M. Oliveira and O. R. Za  ane. Protecting Sensitive Knowledge By Data Sanitization, ICDM  03 13] S. R. M. Oliveira, O. R. Za  ane and Y  cel Saygin. Secure Association Rule Sharing, PAKDD-04 14] Benny Pinks. Cryptographic Techniques For Privacy-Preserving D ata Mining. ACM SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter Vol. 4, Is. 2, 2002 15] S. J. Rizvi and J. R. Haritsa. Maintaining data privacy in association rule mining. VLDB, 2002 16] J. Vaidya and C. W. Clifton. Privacy preserving association rule mining in vertically partitioned data. KDD2002 17] Verykios, V.S.; Elmagarmid, A.K.; Bertino, E.; Saygin, Y.; Dasseni E. Association rule hiding. IEEE Transactions On Knowledge And Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, April 2004 Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Computer Software and Applications Conference  COMPSAC  05 0730-3157/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE pre></body></html 


pre></body></html 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


