Maintaining Knowledge-Bases of Navigational Patterns from Streams of Navigational Sequences Ajumobi Udechukwu, Ken Barker, Reda Alhajj ADSA Lab, Dept. of Computer Science, University of Calgary, Canada ajumobiu, barker, alhajj}@cpsc.ucalgary.ca Abstract In this paper we explore an alternative design goal for navigational pattern discovery in stream environments. Instead of mining based on thresholds and returning the patterns that satisfy the specified threshold\(s\, we propose to mine without thresholds 
and return all identified patterns along with their support counts in a single pass. We utilize a sliding window to capture recent navigational sequences and propose a batch-update strategy for maintaining the patterns within a sliding window. Our batch-update strategy depends on the ability to efficiently mine the navigational patterns without support thresholds. To achieve this, we have designed an efficient algorithm for mining contiguous navigational patterns without support thresholds. Our experiments show that our algorithm outperforms the existing techniques for 
mining contiguous navigational patterns. Our experiments also show that the proposed batch-update strategy achieves considerable speed-ups compared to the existing window update strategy, which requires total re-computation of patterns within each new window Keywords Data streams, navigational patterns, webusage mining 1. Introduction An interesting problem in web usage mining that has attracted the attention of several researchers is the discovery of traversal patterns \(or link navigation 
patterns\of Tracking user-browsing habits provides useful information for service providers and businesses, and ultimately should help to improve the effectiveness of the service provided. In popular e-commerce sites, the web logs receive continuous streams of entries. For these web sites to improve their performance by utilizing discovered navigational patterns, the navigational sequences should be treated as data streams. In this work, we propose a framework for mining and updating contiguous navigational patterns from streams of 
navigational sequences. We utilize a sliding window to capture the most recent set of navigational patterns The class of patterns identified from streaming web log sequences in this work is contiguous navigational patterns. We assume pre-processing steps are applied  to the stream  of navigational sequences. Generally, there are two broad techniques for mining navigational patterns level-wise, apriori-based  s are derived from early algorithms for mining sequential 
patterns and association rules. These algorithms are level-wise and utilize candidate generation and test techniques so it is possible to define various test conditions for candidate patterns before they are included in the result-set. These algorithms can be used to discover different types of navigational patterns by adjusting the test conditions, so they can be used for mining generalized navigational patterns and for constrained navigational patterns. For example given the navigational sequence \(A, C, K, M, O, R representing objects \(or web pages 
order. A generalized navigational pattern would include A, M, R as a valid pattern because the objects are visited in order. The test condition may also be set to constrain gaps between successive objects. If the maximum allowable gap between two consecutive objects in a pattern is 1, then pattern A, M, R becomes invalid because the distance between A and M is 2. When such constraints are incorporated in the mining process the result is known as a constrained navigational pattern. A special case of constrained 
navigational patterns is contiguous navigational patterns, which results when the allowable gap between successive objects is set to 0 whereby no gap is allowed. The apriori-based algorithms can discover every type of navigational pattern discussed above Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


However, the candidate generation and test technique utilized in apriori-based algorithms is computationally expensive The development of tree-based techniques for association rule mining motivates the use of tree-based techniques for navigational pattern discovery [7 Unfortunately, the flexibility enjoyed in apriori-based techniques for navigational pattern mining is not transferable to their tree-based counterparts. The treebased techniques found in the literature identify all generalized paths but cannot differentiate constrained navigational patterns \(including contiguous patterns  set of constrained navigational patterns are included in the set of generalized navigational patterns. However, some application scenarios are better served by constrained or contiguous patterns. In such cases, the existing treebased algorithms cannot be used because they cannot differentiate between the different types of navigational patterns. For example, Nakagawa and  m e ndation system s based on contiguous sequential patterns perform better than those based on association or generalized sequential patterns in websites with low link connectivity, deep traversal depths, or dynamically generated content. These results support earlier results that advocate the use of constrained patterns for web page tree-based algorithm for mining contiguous navigational patterns that outperforms existing algorithms for discovering contiguous navigational patterns. We also contribute a novel batch-update strategy for maintaining current patterns from a stream of navigational sequences The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents related work. Section 3 presents our methodology for discovering and maintaining current navigational patterns within a sliding window. We present and discuss our experimental results in Section 4. Conclusions and areas of future work are discussed in Section 5 2. Related work Chen et al  propose algorithm s for m i ning maximal forward references from navigational patterns. The authors also propose apriori-based algorithms for mining frequent, contiguous navigational patterns from the set of maximal forward references. Our work also involves mining contiguous navigational patterns but we utilize a more efficient tree-based algorithm for this purpose. We are interested in streams of navigational sequences but not static collections of sequences. Our approach also does not require pre-defined support thresholds Pei et al  mining web navigational patterns termed the WAPtree. The authors show that the WAP-tree outperforms the earlier apriori-based techniques. However, the WAP-tree and its variants \(e.g., the PLWAP-tree cannot differentiate all the different types of navigational patterns that can be mined with the apriori-based algorithms. The WAP-tree and its variants are also driven by support thresholds. Our work differs significantly from the WAP-tree and its variants as we do not address the same problem. Our approach is directed at mining contiguous navigational patterns and is not driven by support thresholds. Our work is also tailored for environments with streaming navigational sequences Giannella et al  propose a fram ework for m i ning frequent association patterns from data streams. Their work is similar in spirit to the work in this paper However, we are interested in mining constrained navigational patterns rather than association patterns We also propose an efficient incremental patternupdate strategy within sliding windows, which differs from Giannella et al s total re-computation strategy   3. Methodology Our aim is to mine and maintain contiguous navigational patterns from input streams of navigational sequences. We use a windowing technique to capture the current navigational sequences. The input stream of navigational sequences is continuous but the navigational sequences are treated in batches. For example, if the base time unit utilized is one minute, then all the navigational sequences obtained from the web log for each minute are processed together as a batch. The window is used to determine which batches participate in maintaining the set of current contiguous navigational patterns Several windowing techniques exist. For example given that the window size is four batches and the following batches of navigational sequences arrive in this order: B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6, B7, B8, B9, B10 B11, & B12. We can have a windowing strategy that processes batches B1 to B4 in one window and then batches B5 to B8 next. This would mean that after processing batch B4 the system waits to accumulate batches B5 to B8 before continuing. This approach does not support the aim of real time processing in data stream environments. An alternative windowing approach would be to have a sliding window that gets Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


updated with the arrival of each batch. Using our example, that means that batches B1 to B4 are processed in the first instance. When batch B5 arrives the window becomes batches B2 to B5. This presents different challenges because we must remove pattern counts arising from batch B1 and add those from batch B5. This can be done in two ways  Start a new mining process for each new window and accumulate the patterns for the navigational sequences present in that window  Design efficient techniques for removing the impact of the batch leaving the window while adding the new batch without starting afresh Intuitively, the second approach is preferable if the window contains several batches so it would be cheaper to remove the impact of one batch on the discovered patterns than starting the entire process from scratch. Before we discuss our strategies for maintaining patterns within a window, we first discuss our algorithm for mining contiguous navigational patterns from a batch of navigational sequences 3.1. Mining contiguous navigational patterns The aim here is to find objects \(or web pages are accessed together and the navigational patterns frequently exhibited by system users. However, unlike most algorithms, our technique is not based on predefined support \(or another threshold\We reported an algorithm for mining contiguous navigational patterns based on an adapted generalized suffix tree GST that does not require support thresholds earlier 8]. However, the adapted GST algorithm cannot be used efficiently with the window maintenance scheme discussed in Section 3.2. We propose a less compact data structure termed the AC-NAP tree A ll C ontiguous N avigational A ccess P attern tree mining the contiguous patterns without pre-defined support thresholds The AC-NAP tree is a general \(not necessarily balanced 1 Each node except the root node has a symbol, a label, a count, and a last-id property. The symbol indicates the object/webpage represented by the node. The count accumulates the number of unique navigational sequences that have reached or traversed the node. The last-id holds the identifier of the last sequence to reach or traverse the node 2 The concatenation of node symbols from the root node to any internal or leaf node constitutes the nodes label. Each node label represents a navigational path with a support count equal to the nodes count property 3 Each node can have an arbitrary number of children, but no two paths from any node are identical so no two child-nodes of any node can have the same symbol The AC-NAP tree construction algorithm takes the set of navigational sequences with unique identifiers defined for each sequence as input. The objects \(or web pages\ are allocated unique symbols and these are used in generating the navigational sequences. The steps involved in constructing the ACNAP tree are 1 Starting with the first navigational sequence extract the suffixes of the sequence from position 1 to position n where n is the length of the sequence. For example, given that L, Q, & R are symbols used to represent objects \(or web pages\in the system, and that LQR is the first navigational sequence to be added to the ACNAP tree. The suffixes of the navigational sequence are LQR for position 1; QR for suffix starting at position 2; and R for suffix starting at position 3. When the AC-NAP tree is created, it is given a root node. When the first suffix is added to the tree, a child node is created for each item in the suffix. Each node in the tree has a node symbol  which is the object \(or web page\node label which is the path from the root to that node \(i.e the concatenation of all the node symbols from the root to that node, inclusive of the nodes symbol\ulates the number of unique navigational sequences that have reached the node; and a last-id property which holds the identifier of the last suffix that reached that node. Note that suffixes inherit the unique identifiers of their parent navigational sequences. Figure 1 shows the steps in creating the base AC-NAP tree with the suffixes of the navigational sequence LQR. We have numbered the nodes for ease of discussion. The shaded oval is the root node while the unshaded ovals are the other nodes of the tree. Each suffix of a sequence is added to the tree starting at the root node. The suffix being added follows the path of the child node whose symbol is the same as the next item in the suffix to be added. If there is no child node from the current node that has the next item on the suffix as a node symbol, a new child node is created from the current node and the symbol is assigned as the next item on the suffix being added. Thus, no two child-nodes from the same parent node may have identical symbols. A node label is assigned to a node at creation, for example in Figure 1, the node label Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


for node 1 is L; the label for node 3 is LQR the label for node 5 is QR etc At creation, the last-id property of a new node is the same as the identifier of the navigational sequence from which the suffix is derived. The node-count property of a new node in the AC-NAP tree is set to 1 2 The remaining sequences from the set of navigational sequences are added one at a time to the AC-NAP tree. For each sequence, all its suffixes are extracted and added to the tree in order. Each suffix is added to the tree by traversing the nodes starting at the root node similar to the process used in constructing the base tree\when a suffix reaches a node, if the identifier of the suffix is different from the last-id property of the node, the node count property of the node is incremented by 1 and the last-id property is updated to the identifier of the suffix that just traversed \(or reached 3 Finally, output all node labels and counts to a database, adding a unique identifier for each pattern. The node labels are the patterns and the node counts are the support counts for the respective patterns Figure 2 shows an AC-NAP tree for the navigational sequences LQR, LQR, LQ, and QR. The representation of these navigational sequences using the adapted GST algorithm is shown in Figure 3 The adapted GST accumulates patterns along edges so a stop signal suffixes end at leaf nodes. The root node in Figure 3 is the shaded oval, the internal nodes are the unshaded ovals, and the rectangles represent the leaf nodes. Leaf nodes are handled differently than internal nodes in the adapted GST technique. \(Udechukwu et al  provide a full discussion on the adapted GST algorithm.\There are two internal nodes in Figure 3, with labels LQ and Q, respectively. The node with label LQ is traversed by suffixes from three sequences so pattern LQ has a count of 3. Similarly, pattern Q has a count of 4 because its node is traversed by four sequences. Pattern Q from Figure 3 is equivalent to node 4 in the AC-NAP tree of Figure 2. Similarly pattern LQ of Figure 3 is the equivalent of node 2 in Figure 2. The difference between these two representations is the AC-NAP tree reports all patterns while the adapted GST algorithm collapses some patterns that can be inferred from other patterns. For example, both patterns L with support count of 3 and pattern LQ with support count of 3 are reported in the AC-NAP tree but in the adapted GST representation only pattern LQ with support count of 3 is reported because pattern L does not occur independently and can be inferred. Collapsing some inferable patterns \(as is the case with the adapted GST algorithm laudable attribute in some data mining scenarios However, when mining patterns independently across different windows, as is the case in this paper, it is challenging to identify and update subparts of the collapsed patterns. For example, pattern LQ may be found in batch B1 with support count 4 using the adapted GST algorithm. Given that there was no independent occurrence of pattern L it can only be inferred from LQ. Assuming that in batch B2 pattern L occurs independently with a count of 2, it now becomes challenging to obtain the total count of L across the two batches because this would require searching through the patterns from batch B1 to extract the highest count for L. Fortunately, this challenge is addressed in the AC-NAP tree 3.2. Maintaining patterns within a window Recall that we are working with streams of navigational sequences. The navigational sequences are grouped together into batches representing sequences that arrived within a base time unit. A sliding window is used to specify which batches participate in reporting the current set of navigational patterns. Consider the example used earlier in Section 3. Given that the sliding window size is four batches and the following batches of navigational sequences arrived in order: B1, B2, B3, B4, B5, B6, B7, B8, B9 B10, B11, & B12. Our methodology mines the navigational sequences in each batch independently Thus, when batch B1 arrives, the navigational patterns in B1 are mined and stored in a database table with the following schema Current_patterns pattern-id batch-id, patternname, support-count Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


Figure 1. Creating the base AC-NAP tree using the navigational sequence LQR Figure 2. AC-NAP Tree for the navigational sequences LQR, LQR, LQ and QR    L: 1  Q: 1  R: 1 1 2 3    L: 1  Q: 1  R: 1   Q: 1  R: 1 5 4 1 2 3    L: 1  Q: 1  R: 1   Q: 1  R: 1 5 4 1 2 3   R: 1 6  1. Addin g suffix L Q R   2. Addin g suffix Q R   3. Addin g suffix R     L: 3  Q: 3  R: 2   Q: 4  R: 3 5 4 1 2 3   R: 3 6  LQ  R    1, 2 2, 2 4 1  1, 3 2, 3 4, 2  1, 1 2, 1  4, 3 3, 3 2, 4 1, 4    3, 1 R   3, 2    R Q 1 2 3 4 5 6 Figure 3. Adapted GST with leaf-node relevance for the navigational sequences LQR LQR  LQ and QR with $ a pp ended to each se q uence as a sto p s y mbol  8  Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


We utilize a memory-based DBMS table for this purpose. Our examples in this section are based on memory-based DBMS concepts from the MySQL 1 DBMS. The Current_patterns table within MySQL is created in main memory using the following SQL statement CREATE TABLE Current_patterns   pattern-id INT, batch-id INT, pattern-name VARCHAR, support-count INT, PRIMARY KEY \(pattern-id    ENGINE = MEMORY  Similarly, the navigational patterns from batch B2 are mined and added to the table. The batches are mined independently and added to the table until the window size is reached \(in this case, until batch B4 is processed\Table 1 shows a sample of some navigational patterns for the first window Table 1. A sample representation of patterns in a knowledgebase table Pattern-id Batch-id Patternname Support-count 1 1 LQR 20 2 1 L 50 3 1 QR 30 4 2 QLR 40 5 2 QR 5 6 3 L 15 7 3 QR 20 8 4 QR 10 9 4 LQR 5 Notice that some patterns repeat in different batches For example: pattern QR occurs in all the four batches with support-counts 30 for batch 1 \(i.e., B1\5 for batch B2; 20 for batch B3; and 10 for batch B4. To obtain the unique navigational patterns within a window and their corresponding occurrence frequencies, the following SQL statement is used SELECT pattern-name, SUM \(support-count FROM Current_patterns GROUP BY pattern-name  1 http://www.mysql.com At the arrival of the next batch of navigational sequences \(i.e. batch B5\window shifts its start position to batch B2. This means that patterns from batch 1 \(i.e., B1\ust be removed from the Current_patterns table. This is achieved using the following SQL statement DELETE * FROM Current_patterns    WHERE batch-id = 1 The new navigational patterns discovered from batch B5 are then added to the Current_patterns table and the entire process repeats. We call our approach for maintaining and updating patterns within a sliding window the batch-update strategy. An alternative  re-com pute the entire set of patterns for all the batches within the window for each update. Our batch-update strategy follows a simple intuition: since the patterns within a window are processed using a sliding-window protocol that involves incrementally adding and removing sequences from the window, it makes sense to incrementally update the resulting navigational patterns and knowledgebase in a similar fashion. Thus the essence of our batch-update strategy is to remove the impact of navigational sequences that are no longer in the sliding window from the knowledgebase while adding the impact of the new sequences that just arrived at the window. This update process must be achieved correctly in the most efficient way. It is important to note that the simplicity of update enjoyed in the batch-update strategy is only possible when the patterns in the individual batches are discovered without support thresholds 4. Experimental results and discussions The major focus of our experiments is the evaluation of the batch-update strategy proposed in this paper. All the experiments reported here were executed on a personal computer running Microsoft Windows XP professional edition, with a 2GHz Intel Pentium 4 processor, and 512 MB RAM. The algorithms are implemented in Java \(in the JBuilder 8 personal edition IDE\knowledgebase was stored in a MySQL DBMS. Java database connectivity is used for communication between the programs and the knowledgebase. We tested the update strategies i.e., batch update vs. total re-computation publicly available, anonymous, real-world web logs of msnbc.com users from W e  chose to ignore single-valued navigational sequences i.e., sequences consisting of a single page visit\as Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


they do not capture interesting link information. We also ignored sequences with 50 events or longer, as they were more likely to be generated by web crawlers given that the average sequence length in the original dataset is 5.7 page visits/events\ental evaluations, we set the batch size to 1,000 navigational sequences, and use window sizes of 5, 10, and 20 batches per window. For each window size, we ran 10 updates to evaluate the average performance of the different update strategies. Our results are reported in Tables 2, 3, and 4 for the three window sizes respectively We compare the performance of the two updatestrategies \(i.e., batch-update vs. total re-computation using both the apriori-based algorithm ACNAP tree for mining contiguous navigational patterns within each window. \(Note: the other tree-based algorithms for discovering navi cannot differentiate contiguous navigational patterns so we do not include them in our evaluations.\e do not report any execution times for our batch-update strategy with apriori because apriori-based algorithms are extremely expensive if support thresholds are removed and our batch-update strategy requires the removal of support thresholds. The execution times reported in Tables 2  4 are the total times required to mine the patterns within each new window and update the knowledgebase. \(The knowledgebase is utilized in applications that are based on navigational patterns such as web recommendation systems, page prefetching/prediction etc plementation, we also use a stored procedure that transfers all patterns arriving at the memory-based table to a regular diskbased table such that a historical trail of patterns is maintained The results of our experiments show that our batchupdate strategy runs in \(near\e irrespective of the window size \(i.e., given that we have the same number of navigational sequences in each batch, as is the case in our experimental setup The results follow our intuitive reasoning because our batch-update strategy only computes the patterns within the new batch entering the window and re-uses the patterns already discovered in the batches previously in the window. Furthermore, the storage and representation scheme used to discover patterns means the final step of removing the impact of patterns from the batch exiting the window is also achieved at a minimal cost 5. Conclusions This paper proposes an efficient framework for discovering and maintaining navigational patterns from streaming navigational sequences. Similar to previous work we utilize a sliding window to track the set of current navigational patterns from the data stream We utilize a sliding batch-update strategy for maintaining the patterns within the sliding window This differs from the earlier approach that required a total re-computation of patterns within windows However, our methodology requires efficient patterndiscovery techniques that are not based on support thresholds. To achieve this we propose the AC-NAP tree A ll C ontiguous N avigational A ccess P attern tree\ining contiguous navigational patterns without support thresholds. Our experiments show that our batch-update strategy is practical and achieves significant speed-ups important in streaming environments. The path-mining algorithm presented in this work discovers contiguous navigational patterns An area of future work is to develop a path-mining algorithm for the general case of constrained navigational paths that would not utilize pre-defined support thresholds 6. References  Chen, M-S., Park, J.S., and Yu, P.S E fficient Data Mining for Path Traversal Patterns IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering vol. 10, no. 2, 1998, pp 209-221   Cooley R., Mobasher, B., and Srivastava, J D ata Preparation for Mining World Wide Web Browsing Patterns Knowledge and Information Systems vol. 1, no. 1 1999  Giannella, C., Han, J., Pei, J., Yan, X., and Yu, P.S Mining Frequent Patterns in Data Streams at Multiple Time Granularities, in H. Kargupta, A. Joshi, K. Sivakumar, and Y. Yesha, \(Editors\Data Mining: Next Generation Challenges and Future Directions, AAAI/MIT Press, 2003  Hettich, S. and Bay S D, The UCI KDD archive  Department of Information and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, CA 1999   Lu, Y. and Ezeife, C.I., Position Coded Pre-Order Linked WAP-Tree for Web Log Sequential Pattern Mining Proc. of the 7 th Pacific-Asia Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 2003, pp. 337-349 Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


   Table 2. Update Times \(in seconds\indows using a window size of 5 Window 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Average Batch-update with AC-NAP 2.0 2.2 1.9 1.9 2.1 2.0 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.05 Total window re-computation with AC-NAP 5.5 5.5 5.7 5.9 5.6 5.7 5.4 6.0 5.5 5.6 5.64 Total window re-computation with Apriori at 0.1% support 19.9 19.7 20.0 19.5 19.8 19.8 19.4 20.1 20.8 20.8 19.98    Table 3. Update Times \(in seconds\indows using a window size of 10 Window 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Average Batch-update with AC-NAP 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.1 1.9 1.7 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.93 Total window re-computation with AC-NAP 9.3 9.5 9.5 9.5 9.8 9.6 9.6 9.6 9.0 9.6 9.50 Total window re-computation with Apriori at 0.1% support 36.8 36.3 36.9 37.0 37.4 37.2 36.7 36.8 37.0 37.0 36.91    Table 4. Update Times \(in seconds\indows using a window size of 20 Window 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Average Batch-update with AC-NAP 1.8 2.0 1.8 2.0 1.8 2.1 2.1 1.9 1.8 2.0 1.93 Total window re-computation with AC-NAP 15.1 15.7 16.0 16.6 15.5 15.7 15.2 15.1 15.7 15.4 15.60 Total window re-computation with Apriori at 0.1% support 69.6 70.0 71.8 70.8 70.4 71.2 70.0 71.0 71.3 72.5 70.86  Nakagawa, M. and Mobasher, B., A Hy brid Web Personalization Model Based on Site Connectivity Proc. of the 5 th WEDKDD Workshop in conjunction with ACM SIGKDD Conference, Washington DC, USA, August 2003 pp. 59-70  Pei, J., Han, J., Mortazavi-asl, B., and Zhu, H M ining Access Patterns Efficiently from Web Logs, in Proceedings of the Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(PAKDD00 2000, pp. 396-407  Udechukwu, A., Barker, K. and Alhajj R A Framework for Representing Navigational Patterns as Full Temporal Objects ACM SIGEcom Exchanges vol. 5, no.2 2004   Yang, H. and Parthasarathy S., On the Use of Constrained Associations for Web Log Mining Proc. of the International Workshop on Knowledge Discovery in the Web WEBKDD 2002 Proceedings of the 15th International Workshop on Research Issues in Data Engineering: Stream Data Mining and Applications \(RID E-SDMA05 1097-8585/05 $20.00  2005 IEEE 


 170 0.411 0.384 0.493 0.397   180 0.569 0.611 0.472 0.486   190 0.494 0.553 0.529 0.588   200 0.314 0.372 0.267 0.314   Avg. 0.379 0.413 0.406 0.443  The comparison of average precision of top-20 on ten topics is listed in Table 4. The measures of keyword-based models \(tfidf and pr number of 0.4. Whereas the figures of pattern-based models \(PTM-1 and PTM-2 be over 0.5. This implies that both PTM models improve the precision of the top returned documents Table 4. Average precision of top20 ranked documents on the ten topics  tfidf Pr PTM-1 PTM-2   Avg. 0.400 0.406 0.505 0.515  Figure 3 illustrates the effect of introducing the pattern-based methods on the P/R curves on the topic 110, which can represent the trend of all topics. In Figure 3, as the PTM models are applied, their P/R curves lift up and indicate the improvement of performance made by the PTM models 6. Related work and conclusion Mining sequential patterns has been extensively studied in data mining community since the first research work in [1]. The earlier studies which focused on the large size of retail datasets have developed several Apriorilike algorithms in order to solve the problem of discovering sequential patterns from such databases However, the Apriori-like algorithms only perform well in databases consisting of short frequent sequences [17 This is caused by the fact that it is quite time-consuming to generate nTerms sequences candidates from \(n1 disadvantage of Apriori-like algorithms [1], a variety of algorithms such as PrefixSpan [17], SPADE [25 SLPMiner [22] and GST [12] have been proposed. In order to improve the efficiency, each algorithm pursues a different method of discovering frequent sequential patterns, which makes them featured by the capability of mining such patterns without even generating any candidates With respect to the representation of the content of documents, some research works have used phrases rather than individual words [21]. However, the effectiveness of the text mining systems was not improved very much. The likely reason is that, a phrasebased method has  lower consistency of assignment and lower document frequency for terms  21]. Hence, in this paper, we present a novel concept for mining text documents for sequential patterns. Instead of using single words, we use pattern-based taxonomy to represent documents. By pruning meaningless patterns which have been proven to be the source of the  noise   in this study, the problem of  overfitting  is solved and the experimental results which show the encouraging outcomes are achieved 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Recall Pr e c is 


is io n PTM-2 PTM-1 Pr tfidf Figure 3. Precision/Recall curves on Topic110 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE Some future research works can be conducted based on the results of this research. To improve the accuracy one major direction is to extract and use the interesting information from negative or unlabeled documents. The weighting scheme of discovered patterns can then be optimized References 1] R. Agrawal, and R. Srikant  Mining sequential patterns  Proceedings of Int. Conf. on Data engineering \(ICDE  95 pp. 3-14 2] H. Ahonen, O. Heinonen, M. Klemettinen, and A I. Verkamo  Applying data mining techniques for descriptive phrase extraction in digital document collections  Proceedings of the IEEE Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries \(ADL  98 1998, pp. 2-11 3] M. L. Antonie and O. R. Zaiane  Text document categorization by term association  ICDM02 Maebashi City, Japan, 2002, pp. 19-26 4] Y. Bi, T. Anderson, S. McClean  A rough set model with ontologies for discovering maximal association rules in document collection   Knowledge-Based Systems vol.16, 2003, pp. 243251 5] G. Chang, M.J. Healey, J. A. M. McHugh, and J T. L. Wang, Mining the World Wide Web: an information search approach, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001, pp. 192 6] D. A. Evans, et al., CLARIT experiments in batch filtering: term selection and threshold optimization in IR and SVM Filters, TREC02 2002 7] R. Feldman, et al  Text mining at the term level  Lecture Notes in AI 1510: Principle of data mining and knowledge discovery, SpringerVerlag, 1998, pp. 65-73 8] R. Feldman and H. Hirsh  Mining associations in text in presence of background knowledge   KDD96, 1996, pp. 343-346 9] D. A. Grossman and O. Frieder, Information retrieval algorithms and heuristics, Kluwer Academic publishers, Boston, 1998 10] K. M. Hammouda and M. S. Kamel  Phrasebased document similarity based on an index graph model  Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 pp. 203-210 11] J. D. Holt and S. M. Chung  Multipass algorithms for mining association rules in text databases  Knowledge and Information Systems vol.3, 2001, pp. 168-183 12] Y. Huang and S. Lin  Mining sequential patterns using graph search techniques  Proceedings of the 27th Annual Int. Computer Software and Applications Conf. \(COMPSAC  03 2003, pp. 4-9 13] Y. Li, C. Zhang, and J. R. Swan  An information filtering model on the Web and its application in 


filtering model on the Web and its application in JobAgent  Knowledge-based Systems 13\(5 2000, pp. 285-296 14] B. Liu, Y. Dai, X. Li, W. S. Lee, and P. S. Yu  Building text classifiers using positive and unlabeled examples  ICDM03, 2003, pp. 179186 15] B. Liu, Y. Ma, and Philip S. Yu, Discovering business intelligence information by comparing company Web sites, in: N. Zhong, J. Liu and Y Y. Yao \(eds  Web Intelligence  SpringerVerlag, 2003, pp. 105-127 16] J. Mostafa, W. Lam, and M. Palakal  A multilevel approach to intelligent information filtering: model, system, and evaluation  ACM Transactions on Information Systems 15\(4 1997, pp. 368-399 17] J. Pei, J. Han, B. Mortazavi-Asl, H. Pinto, Q Chen, U. Dayal, and M. Hsu  PrefixSpan Mining sequential patterns efficiently by prefixprojected pattern growth  Proceedings of Int Conf. on Data Engineering \(ICDE  02 Heidelberg, Germany, 2001, pp. 215-224 18] M. F. Porter  An algorithm for suffix stripping   Program 14\(3 19] S. Robertson and I. Soboroff, The TREC 2002 Filtering Track Report, NIST Special Publication: SP 500-251 \(TREC-2002 20] T. Rose, M. Stevenson, and M. Whitehead  The Reuters Corpus Volume1 - From yesterday  s news to today  s language resources  Proceedings of the 3rd Inter. Conf. on Language Resources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Spain 2002 21] F. Sebastiani  Machine learning in automated text categorization  ACM Computing Surveys Vol. 34, No.1, 2002, pp. 1-47 22] M. Seno and G. Karypis  SLPMiner: An algorithm for finding frequent sequential patterns using length-decreasing support constraint   Proceedings of IEEE 2002 Int. Conf. on Data Mining \(ICDM  02 23] P. Tzvetkov, X. Yan, and J. Han  TSP: Mining top-K closed sequential patterns  ICDM03 2003, pp. 347-354 24] X. Yan, J. Han, and R. Afshar  CloSpan: mining closed sequential patterns in large datasets   Proceedings of SIAM Int. Conf. on Data Mining SDM 03 177 25] M. Zaki  SPADE: An efficient algorithm for mining frequent sequences  Machine Learning vol. 40, 2001, pp. 31-60 Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence \(WI  04 0-7695-2100-2/04 $ 20.00 IEEE pre></body></html 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


