A Framework for Extrusion Detection Using Machine Learning   Yan Luo and Jeffrey J.P. Tsai Department of Computer Science, Uni versity of Illinois, Chicago, IL 60607 tsai@cs.uic.edu   Abstract  Machine learning deals with the issue of how to build programs that improve their performance at some task through experience. Machine learning algorithms have proven to be of great practical value in a variety of application domains. They are particularly useful for \(a\ poorly understood problem domains where little knowledge exists for the humans to develop effective algorithms; \(b\ domains where 
there are large databases containing valuable implicit regularities to be discovered; or \(c\ domains where programs must adapt to changing conditions. Not surprisingly, the field of cyber space turns out to be a fertile ground where many software security problems could  be formulated as learning problems and approached in terms of learning algorithms  This paper deals with the subject of applying machine learning in extraction detection. In the paper  we present our research work on design and implementation of an extrusion detection system for information security of big companies. The result 
shows a potential in real-world applications  1. Introduction  Extrusion is the unauthorized transfer of digital assets that are essential to accomplishing a company's mission credit card numbers, customer records, source code, transactional information and other classified information - by trusted insides. Trusted insides can be any of the company’s employees, its suppliers and sometimes indirectly even its customers. An extrusion can be malicious, such as a theft of information, or unintentional, such as the accidental inclusion of an 
unauthorized recipient on a sensitive e-mail. Malicious or accidental, the consequences of leakages can be dire: regulatory fines, lost business, embarrassment, or lawsuits In this paper, we present our research work on design and implementation of an extrusion  detection system for information security using machine learning. Currently, the problem of information security in big companies has become more and more important. The leaking of confidential information and internal attacks cost a lot of money of these companies 
every year. Therefore an effective and efficient solution is urgently demanded. Extrusion detection system \(EDS\ is a good choice for solving this problem and protecting confidential information. However EDS is a new research topic and there is not much research effort focusing on this area. Extrusion detection is a reverse process of intrusion detection Intrusion detection system \(IDS\ is to protect the system from outside attacks, while EDS is to protect the system from inside attacks [1   Th er ef o r e th e r e ar e many similar characteristics between EDS and IDS 
Based on this fact, we studied IDS and compare it to EDS Currently there are two general categories of intrusion detection techniques, misuse detection and anomaly detection. Misuse detection is also called signature-based detection. In misuse detection, wellknown attacks or weak spots of the system are encoded into signatures, which are then used to match evidence from run-time activities to identify intrusions Anomaly detection is also called statistical-based detection. In anomaly detection, normal behavior of user and system activities are first modeled into normal 
profiles, which are then used as baselines so that runtime activities that result in significant deviation are triggered as possible intrusions. These methods can be also applied to extrusion detection. However, misuse detection needs much human effort to find well-known attacks and encode them to a lot of signatures; anomaly detection also needs much human effort to select proper features for modeling normal profiles Therefore, we proposed another combination method which integrates both misuse detection and anomaly detection and uses data mining techniques for 
automatically generating detection rules and selecting proper features In this method, both user and system activities are first recorded as raw data, such as keyboard/mouse events, process events, file system events  network  connection events, and network traffic events. These 
11th IEEE Symposium on Object Oriented Real-Time Distributed Computing \(ISORC 978-0-7695-3132-8/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ISORC.2008.70 83 


raw data will then be analyzed by data mining techniques, such as association rule analysis, frequency analysis, link analysis, sequence analysis, and classification analysis After these analyses, detection rules and proper features will be automatically generated. Then the detection rules can be used to detect existing extrusions and the proper features can be used to build normal profiles and detect future possible extrusions. Based on this idea, we proposed a framework of EDS for information security of big companies. The framework includes data collection, data analysis, and extrusion detection. At the current stage, we have implemented a prototype system for data collection, which includes four modules, user monitor, process monitor, file system monitor, and network monitor  We introduce the basic concepts of machine learning first then present system architecture and system components in Section 3. In section 4, we discuss the technical approach.  We present the implementation in section 5 and conclude the paper in section 6  2. Machine Learning  Machine learning is concerned with the design and development of algorithms and techniques that allow computer systems to autonomously acquire and integrate knowledge to continuously improve them to finish their tasks efficiently and effectively. There are three main learning paradigms according to the available information in the training examples. They are supervised learning, reinforcement learning and unsupervised learning   In supervised learning, the desired output of each input in the training examples is given. The goal of learning is to find a function implied in the training examples that could be used to predict the output for any unseen valid input. The output of the function could be class label \(such task is called pattern recognition or classification\ or continuous real value such task is called regression or function approximation In reinforcement learning, the machine is usually not given training data, but interacts with its environment by producing a series of actions. Each of action will affect the state of environment. The environment in turn will generate reward or punishment. The aim of reinforcement learning is to discover a policy  for selecting actions to maximize the reward or minimize the punishment In unsupervised learning, the machine receives the inputs only without outputs or  rewards from its  environment. The goal of unsupervised learning is to find the patterns in the inputs and build the representation of the input that can be used to make decision, predict future inputs and so on. Example of unsupervised learning is clustering and data compression  3. System Architecture  Based on the study of both IDS and EDS, we proposed a combination method which integrates both misuse detection and anomaly detection and applies data mining techniques for automatically generating detection rules and selecting proper features. In this method, both user and system activities are first recorded as raw data, such as keyboard/mouse events process events, file system events, network connection events, and network traffic events. These raw data will then be analyzed by data mining techniques, such as association rule analysis, frequency analysis, link analysis, sequence analysis, and classification analysis After these analyses, detection rules and proper features will be automatically generated. Then the detection rules can be used to detect existing extrusions and the proper features can be used to build normal profiles and detect future possible extrusions The framework can be divided into data collection,        data analysis, and extrusion detection as shown in  Figure 1. Next, we will describe the detail of each module A. Target system: Target system is the system that is being monitored and protected from extrusions. The target system can be a personal computer, a local network, or event a whole company's computer system   B. Data collection: Data collection is the main module for collecting the raw data which includes a lot of information or events, such as 1\ User behaviors: keyboard events, mouse events 2\ System behaviors: process events, file system events, clipboard events 3\ Network behaviors: connection events, network traffic events To capture these different types of events or information, the Data Collection module can be further divided into several sub-modules, User Monitor, Process Monitor, Network Monitor, File System Monitor, and Clipboard Monitor. All these sub-modules are running simultaneously to monitor different types of events and produce the raw data 
84 


C.  Raw data: Raw data is the initial event information that is produced by different sub-module monitors, as discussed above. Although the raw data contains many different types of information or events, the format should be standardized. Because the formatted raw data is easy to be stored and further processed for data analysis D. Data analysis: Data analysis is the module that analyzes the raw data to generate detection rules and select proper features. In this module, different data mining techniques will be applied, such as 1\ Association rule analysis: to mine the possible association rule 2\requency analysis: to analyze the frequency of different events and features 3\ Link analysis: to construct the possible link between different events 4\ Sequence analysis: to find the most frequent sequences and analyze their features 5\ Classification analysis. to classify the different type of events into categories E. Detection rules  Detection rules are automatically generated by data analysis module and can be used for future extrusion detections  F. Features: Proper features are automatically selected by data analysis module. The proper features are the most important features that could model the system and user's normal profiles. The normal profiles can be further used to detect abnormal events and the possible extrusions G Database SQL database is the storage place to store all the information and events which includes the raw data, the detection rules, the proper features and the system and user's normal profiles  H. Detection engine: Detection engine is the module that interactively loads the detection rules from SQL database and applies these detection rules on the target system for run-time extrusion. The detection engine can also load the system and user's normal profiles from SQL database and monitor the target system. If the system or the user's behavior  significantly deviate the  baseline of the normal profiles, the alarm of possible extrusions is triggered   4. Technical Approach  By analyzing these different events and their happening sequences, we can define rules to detect the intrusion or extrusion activities. For example BINDER [3 s imp ly d e te c t s  b r e a k i n e x t r u s io n s b y  determining the network connections are unrelated to user actions. BINDER also uses process information to limit the correlation. Only processes that receive user input are allowed to make connections  We can use event timestamp as index and sort all the recorded system events. Then we can analyze the intrusion or extrusion activities. Such as 1\ If an unknown process is created not by the user input, then it is probably an intrusion or extrusion process 2\ If an unknown network connection is requested not by the user input, then it is probably an intrusion or extrusion activity 3  If a confidential file is read and the content is transferred out of the computer, then it is probably an intrusion or extrusion activity  4\ If the content of a confidential file is copied to the clipboard and pasted to another file, then it is probably an intrusion or extrusion activity  Currently, we can monitor and record the following system events 1  User input events: keyboard click events, mouse click events 2  Process events: process create events, process terminate events  3\ Network connection events: request new connection events  4  Network traffic events: network traffic data events  5  File system events: file create events, file modify events, file open/close events, file read/write events  6\ Clipboard events: clipboard data events copy/paste events     
85 


4.1 Pattern of extrusions  By sorting all the recorded system events by their timestamps, we can obtain a large set of data. Based on these data, we believe we can apply some data mining techniques to analyze them and find some patterns of intrusion or extrusion activities. And also, we can predefine some patterns of intrusion or extrusion activities, and use the pattern recognition techniques to find the possible intrusion or extrusion activities in the large set of data Data mining and pattern recognition are useful for finding patterns or abnormal activities in the already recorded data. But they are hard to use for real-time monitoring the system and triggering alarm when the intrusion or extrusion activities happened. The best way is that the system is pre-trained with large datasets by using data mining techniques or the patterns of intrusion and extrusion activities are pre-defined by users. Then the pattern recognition techniques or rulebased detection techniques are used for real-time monitoring the system activities and the alarm will be triggered when some patterns are found or some rules are matched  4.2 Extrusion forecasting  For forecasting the next intrusion or extrusion activity, the definition of pattern or rule is very important. If we can obtain the accurate and enough patterns of intrusion and extrusion activities, then I think we can forecast the next intrusion or extrusion activity. Or if we can define the detection rules correctly and completely, then it is also easy to forecast the next intrusion or extrusion activity On the other hand, forecasting new types of intrusion or extrusion activities is another important but difficult problem. To deal with this problem, I think the possible solution is still to find some proper patterns or rules for detection. But since we try to forecast new \(unknown\ypes of intrusion or extrusion activities, the patterns or rules can not be defined completely. One way is to do the partial pattern recognition or rule matching. That is if the pattern is partially recognized or the rule is partially matched then we can trigger an alarm for possible extrusion or intrusion activities. The other way is to find abnormal activities in the system. To find abnormal activities we first need to model the normal activities. Then we monitor all the system activities and if some activities are not belong to normal activities, they could possibly be intrusion or extrusion activities. But how to model the normal activities is still a difficult problem   4.3 Dynamic mechanism  Although, we can monitor many system events and user behaviors, how to organize these events information and use them to detect extrusion or guard security is still a very difficult problem There are two main directions to organize and use these system events and user behaviors information On way is to define some rules and apply these rules to the recorded or the real-time events information. If the rule is matched, then the alarm will be triggered. The other way is to organize these events information as a large dataset or many datasets, and then apply the data mining and the pattern recognition techniques on these datasets to detect extrusion or security threads   Currently, we are focusing on the first way, rulebased extrusion detection and information security. A dynamic mechanism for adding rules, testing rules and deleting rules can be done too. That means, we do not hard code the rules into our system, but develop a system that can be easily added rules and delete rules So that, when we do the experiments, we can simply add the specific rules to the system and run the experiments. If the result is not very good, we can delete the previous rules and add more new rules. Then we can run another experiments based on new rules. In this way, we can efficiently run many experiments for extrusion detection and information security  For developing such a system, the most important problem is to define the templates of rules. To accomplish this object, we can first categorize some rules and find the similar rules. Based on these different types of similar rules, we can propose some basic templates for different rules  For example, a possible template can be a sequence of actions 1  Sequence: Action_1 Action_2 Action_3   Action_N That means the user can specify a sequence of actions as a detection rule. Then the system will examine the recorded system events information to find whether there is a sequence of events that match the detection rule. As an example, based 
86 


on the above template, the following is a simple detection rule 2  A confidential file is opened the content is copied to clipboard the content is pasted to another file the other file is saved So in this detection rule, there are four actions and there a specific order that these actions are performed. Then if our detection system found a sequence of events that match this rule, then some alarm will be triggered and some reactions will be done For another example, the frequency of some actions can also be a template 3  Frequency: Action 1 repeats N times Then based on this template, we can add a possible detection rule like this 4  A connection to the same IP is made more than 10 times After adding this rule, the system will monitor the network connection events and detect whether there is an IP that has been connected more than 10 times. If yes, the extrusion activities maybe happened and some more investigation and reactions will be performed The above is just some very basic idea. There are still many problems should be considered, such as the timing problem. Sometimes the extrusion activities will not follow our detection rule step by step. The order of there activities may be interleaving. So our detection rules should concern the timing information For examples, for frequency rules, we can set some timing threshold which means if a specific action repeats more than N time within a timing period, then it will trigger the alarm After we have some templates for adding detection rules, we can modify and refine these templates for future defining new rules. After we finish proposing these templates, we can develop such a system which contains these templates and can use these templates to add new rules or delete old rules   5. Implementation  At the current stage, we have implemented a prototype system for data collection, which includes four modules, user monitor, process monitor, file system monitor, and network monitor. To protect the confidential information and prevent leaking out the confidential information, we can use some programs to monitor the events on the computer and network Based on some predefined keywords and detection rules, our monitoring system can set alarm when the confidential information is insecure or leaking out. In our prototype system, there are several different modules to monitor the events on the computer and network 1  User monitor to monitor the user's behavior on the computer, such as keyboard events \(which key down\, mouse events \(click, coordinates\, on which application, and so on 2  Process monito r: to monitor all the processes on the computer and all the process events including creating processes, suspending processes, terminating processes, and so on 3  Network monitor to monitor network connections, especially the abnormal connections, including process id, protocol remote address, remote port, status, and so on 4  Traffic monitor to monitor traffic packets on the network, including protocol, remote address remote port, data packet which can be used to filter confidential key words 5  File monitor to monitor the file system including the files that contain the confidential information, such as creating, opening, copying renaming, reading, writing files 6  Clipboard monitor to monitor the system clipboard events and the change of contents of the system clipboard  6. Conclusion  As a conclusion, our research work focuses on design and implementation of an extrusion detection system for information security of big companies. We first studied both IDS and EDS. By comparing them each other, there are many similar characteristics between them. Currently there are two general categories of intrusion detection techniques, misuse detection and anomaly detection. These methods can be also applied to extrusion detection problems. These two main methods have advantages as well as  
87 


     Figure 1. System Diagram          disadvantages, such as both of them need much human effort. Therefore, we proposed another combination method which integrates both misuse detection and anomaly detection and applies machine learning for automatically generating detection rules and selecting proper features. In this method, both user and system activities are first recorded as raw data. Then the raw data is processed and analyzed by different machine learning techniques. Finally, detection rules and proper features will be automatically generated. And the extrusion detection and confidential information protection can be carried out based on the detection rules and proper features. Currently, we have implemented a prototype system for data collection which includes four modules, user monitor, process monitor, file system monitor, and network monitor. In the future work, we plan to extend the system to deal with the raw data and to automatically generate detection rules, select proper features, and construct normal profiles   7. Acknowledgements  This work was supported in part by Motorola  8. References  1 Z Y u  J  J  P   T s a i   T  Wei g e r t  A u t o m at i cal l y  Intrusion Detection Systems IEEE Transactions on System, Man, and Cybernetics Part B, Vol. 37, No. 2 pp. 373-384, April 2007   Z h a ng a n d J  J  P   T s a i   Machine Learning Applications in Software Engineering ed.\, World Scientific Inc., 2005 3 W  C u i  R  H  K a t z   a n d W  T a n   B i n d e r  A n  Extrusion-based Break-in Detector for Personal Computers Proceedings of 2005 USENIX Annual Technical Conference April 2005     
88 


   7  The simulation was run using four different sensor configurations to characteri ze the benefit of using each sensor. These configurations, as well as their characteristics are shown in Table 2. In each case, a single sensor was chosen to provide the velocity feedback and another sensor was chosen to provide the position feedback. In order to better characterize the effects of a given sensor over another, sensor measuremen ts are not combined. For example, if the camera is used for position feedback and the IMU is used for velocity feedback, the IMU velocity measurements are not integrat ed to incorporate into the position estimate from the camera. For each configuration the step response is shown in Figure 9 and impulse disturbance response of falling off of a 10cm rock step is shown in Figure 10  The step and impulse responses of the system clearly show that the system performs much worse with noisy measurements and is especially sensitive to noisy velocity measurements. When the IMU is used, the system responds and settles very quickly compared to when velocity is estimated by discretely differentiating noisy position signals. This occurs because a small error in a position signal will be amplified in the velocity estimation. However whether or not the IMU is used, the system stays within the pointing requirements of 4.0 degrees when falling off of a 10cm rock  The system is also sensitive to sampling rate as evidenced by the fact that the system reacts better when using the integrated IMU signal for position instead of the direct measurement from the camera. The IMU is sampling almost 30 times faster than the camera and so the system is able to respond more quickly. However, the IMU will drift at a rate of 4.2 degrees per hour, so, if only the IMU is used for position estimation, the antenna will need to be recalibrated at least every 55 minutes  Combined Experiment  Earth tracking for the combin ed experiment was conducted using a web cam and a 2D circular "Earth" on a black background.  This is shown in Figure 11.  The camera field of view for this experiment was 30 degrees.  This experiment was designed to test general tracking accuracy and the tracking response to large movements.  In this situation, the Earth remained stationary on the background much as it would during a short period on the moon.  The camera was moved in such a way to simulate the movement of a rover moving over rocky terrain.  This motion consisted of small high frequency movements and drift with intermittent large impulses \(such as those generated by going over a rock The resulting output of this tracking was used to calculate the error in circle tracking. By looking at the output \(which included center location and radius\, we found that the variance in tracked circle vs. the diameter of the Earth \(in pixels\ was on average 8 pixels.  For a field of view of 30 degrees, this comes out to be .234 degrees of error    Figure 12: The position error from the live experiment using either the IMU for the velocity estimate or the encoders  


   8  Figure 11. View of the 2D Earth on a dark background, the tracking circle shown in black  The output was also fed back into the controller simulation to determine how the physical system would respond to real data from the camera. The resulting controller error is shown in Figure 12 with two different simulated velocity sources: the IMU and the encoders.  As expected, direct measurement of the velocity from the IMU provides up to 50% better system response compared to discretely differentiating the encoders  7. C ONCLUSIONS   This paper demonstrates a design for an S-band antenna tracking system that is able to achieve the pointing accuracy necessary for a 2 Mbps data transfer rate from the Moon to Earth while roving. Different se nsor configurations for the system were compared includ ing a fast-sampling gyro, an Earth tracking camera and on-axis encoders. The analysis shows that the system is most sensitive to sampling rate and discretization noise in velocity measurement. Therefore, the system is significantly improved with the addition of a fast sampling angular rate sensor. Furthermore, a simple Earth tracking camera using a Hough transform performs very robustly in the structured environment until the Earth surpasses 85% and would thus be an pose sensor until late in the mission   8. R ECOMMENDATIONS FOR F UTURE W ORK   The next step after the simulation is implementing the controller on the physical hardware and comparing response against the simulation. This would give real life results that would include static friction and backlash. Although the simulation included limits for the motors that simulate real life there are always unexpecte d inefficiencies that would show up on physical hardware. An extension of this paper would be to develop a similar system to stabilize the camera. The technologies in this paper could be used as camera image stabilization to create smoother better looking video while driving across the lunar surface. In order to explore the robustness of the system better characterization of earth tracking in non-ideal cases is needed. We did not do much error analysis dealing with any kind of lens flairs, sun spots or lunar terrain visible in the frame   9. A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS   We would like to thank the following people 200  Dr. George Kantor, Carnegie Mellon University 200  Erika Bannon, Carnegie Mellon University 200  Nick Miller, Carnegie Mellon University 200  Dr. David Wettergreen, Carnegie Mellon University   R EFERENCES   1  Google Lunar X Prize Rules http://www.googlelunarxprize.org  2  C.A. Vanelli, Khaled Ali, "High Gain Antenna Pointing on the Mars Exploration Rovers", Jet Propulsion Lab., California Inst. of Tech, October 10 2005; 27 pp 3  D. Bapna et al. "Antenna Pointing for High Bandwidth Communications from Mobile Robots". Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation. May 1998 4  B. Boone et al. "Optical Communications Development for Spacecraft Applications: Recent Progress at JHU/APL". IEEE Areospace Conference March 2005 5  G.P. Cantarella, and Giac omo Porcelli. \223Specifying the spacecraft bus.\224 COMSAT Technical Review 20 1990\: 309-333 6  G. Hyde, "NASA/NSF Panel Report on Satellite Communications Systems and Technology International Technology Research Institute JTEC/WTEC Program, Loyala College in Maryland July 1993 7  S. Lee, J.W. Alexander, and M. Jeganathan, "Pointing and tracking subsystem design for optical communications link between the International Space Station and ground," Free-Space Laser Communication Technologies XII,  San Jose, CA USA:  PIE, 2000, pp. 150-157 8  G. Mosier et al. "Fine Pointing Control for a Next Generation Space Telescope". Space telescopes and instruments V. Proceedings of the Conference, Kona HI; USA; 25-28 Mar. 1998. pp. 1070-1077. 1998 


   9 9  L. Godara, \223Application of antenna arrays to mobile communications. II. Beam-forming and direction-ofarrival considerations,\224 Proc eedings of the IEEE,  vol 85, 1997, pp. 1195-1245 1  J. Downs et al., "High-performance gimbal control for self-protection weapon systems," Acquisition Tracking, and Pointing XII,  Orlando, FL, USA: SPIE 1998, pp. 77-86 1  H. C. Tseng and D. W. Teo. \223Ship-mounted satellite tracking antenna with fuzzy logic control.\224 Aerospace and Electronic Systems, IEEE Transactions on 34, no 2 \(1998\: 639-645 1  B. Espiau, F. Chaumette, and P. Rives, \223A new approach to visual servoing in robotics,\224 Robotics and Automation, IEEE Transactions on,  vol. 8, 1992, pp 313-326 1  N. Andreff and P. Martinet, "Visual servoing of a Gough-Stewart parallel robo t without proprioceptive sensors," Dymaczewo, Poland: Proceedings of the Fifth International Workshop on Robot Motion and Control, 2005 1  L.P. Ellekilde et al., "Robust Control for High-Speed visual Servoing Applications," International Journal of advanced Robotic Systems, vol. 4, 2007 1  J. Sokol et al. "High Gain Antenna Gimbal for the 2003-2004 Mars Exploration Rover Program Proceedings of the 37th Aerospace Mechanisms Symposium, Johnson Space Ce nter. pp. 237-250. May 2004 1  D. Bapna, "Payload Pointing from Mobile Robots Doctoral Dissertation", T ech. Report CMU-RI-TR-9808, Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon University February, 1998 1  D. Ioannou, W. Huda, and A.F. Laine, \223Circle recognition through a 2D Hough Transform and radius histogramming,\224 Image and Vision Computing,  vol 17, 1999, pp. 15-26 1  D.J. Kerbyson and T.J. Atherton, \223Circle detection using Hough transform filters,\224 Image Processing and its Applications, 1995., Fifth International Conference on, 1995, pp. 370-374 1  R. Chan, \223New parallel Hough transform for circles,\224 Computers and Digital Techniques, IEE Proceedings 1991, pp. 335-344 2  Gurley Model A19 Absolute Encoder Datasheet V 208 http://www.gpi-encoders.com/PDF/A19.pdf  2  Analog Devices ADIS 16350 Tri-Axis Inertial Sensor Rev A Datasheet http://www.analog.com/UploadedFiles/Data_Sheets/A DIS16350_16355.pdf. 2007  2  N. Barbour and G. Schmidt "Inertial Sensor Technology Trends". IEEE Sensors Journal. pp. 332339. 2001 2  J. Hanse, "Honeywell MEMS Inertial Technology and Product Status". Position Location and Navigation Symposium. pp. 43-48. 2004 2  H. Choset et al. Principles of Robot Motion. MIT Press. 2005 2  J.G. Ziegler and B.M. Nichols, "Optimum Settings for Automatic Controllers". Transactions of the ASME pp. 759-768. 1942 2  J.M. Fitts, \223Aided Tracking as Applied to High Accuracy Pointing Systems.\224 Aerospace and Electronic Systems, IEEE Tran sactions on AES-9, no 3 \(1973\: 350-368. doi:10.1109/TAES.1973.309721 2  Maxon Motor 200142 Datasheet http://test.maxonmotor.com docsx/Download/catalog_ 2008/Pdf/08_202_e.pdf. 2008  Biography   Mark Desnoyer  received a B.Eng from Cornell University in Electrical and Computer Engineering in 2006. He is now a Ph.D Candidate in the Field Robotics Center at Carnegie Mellon University working on the Google Lunar X-prize. His previous work includes instrument calibration for NASA\222s Deep Impact spacecraft and a project using genetic algorithms to design and controlling self-replicating machines Kelleher Guerin received a BS in Optical Engineering from the University of Arizona in 2007.  He is currently a graduate student in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University.  His interests lie in optical systems design, vision systems for robotic applications lean space hardware design, human robotic cooperative exploration mission planning, mobile pervasive computing, human computer interaction and business development.  He has worked in as a mechanical de signer, optical engineer, web 


   10 designer and engineering consultant. He is currently the optics lead for the CMU Google Lunar X PRIZE Team under the advisement of William \223Red\224 Whittaker  


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


