What do you get when you Overlay an Enterprise with an Enterprise Management Process Joseph R Farrier and Josef Salerno Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems 2000 E El Segundo Boulevard El Segundo CA 90245-0902 310-616-1233 and 310-616-1728 j oefaffiergraytheon.com and j oesalerno raytheon.com Abstract As engineering systems increase in complexity so too do the management systems required to manage and control the organizations that develop them Enterprise management systems such as product development processes and command 
media are often created to help ease these complexities However without a means to compare and associate actual work performed to the enterprise management system the opportunity for optimized enterprises is lost By combining industry standard accounting infrastructure the enterprise management system du jour and a customized intelligent system to map the two that hope can become reality 12 Such an intelligent system can take an organization from a state of defined processes to optimized enterprise Specific benefits include Clear indicators 
of organizational adherence to enterprise management systems and how well those systems are performing to their intent Functional efficiency and performance metrics across enterprises functional groups and down to the individual contributor Better focus on critical path tasks by the individual contributors begin to own their own budgets schedules and scopes Mentoring and training opportunities are identified along the enterprise management system allowing for a focused development approach Individuals can clearly identify their personal association to 
program schedules and budgets It is the purpose of this paper to discuss an approach taken to connect enterprise management systems to the actual work performed within engineering enterprises and the opportunities associated to this approach Discussions will include the critical design elements system development integration with existing infrastructure such as SAP promotion of healthy user behavior through design requirements buy-in from management alignment to management theory deployment strategies scalability of metrics and other opportunities that result It is the 
intent of these discussions to describe an actual implementation and 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1427 Version 5 Updated January 9 2008 its benefits in addition to helping the reader identify opportunities for implementation within their own organizations TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 THE LEAP FROM PROCESS DEFINITION TO QUANTIFICATION  2 3 THE ELEGANT SOLUTION 2 4 BENEFITS 3 5 CONCLUSION 4 REFERENCES 6 BIOGRAPHIES 
6 1 INTRODUCTION It is no secret that industry has interest in demonstrating competencies as defined by CMMI levels in support of their case to win and maintain business And while defined product development processes and enterprise management systems exist freely not all companies have specifically translated those into their own operating model Even with a well defined product development system the actual implementation of such a process is hindered by the academic and theoretical nature of the process itself While adopting 
a product development process helps define the gold standard of processes to be followed it does not necessarily set the organization down a path of adherence to those processes When considering an approach such as this questions similar to the following should be considered How does an organization move from simply having a process to fully using and following one What level of commitment is required of leadership How should an implementation be rolled out Many 
of the challenges resulting from trying to start utilizing a product development process stem from individuals resisting any change to how one approaches their work Some people will argue that the process is too taxing and that the process they have been following is sufficient or superior Others will do even worse and learn how to pass gate reviews with upper management by skillfully rationalizing why their performance is sufficient when compared to the product development process The 1 


difficult part that anyone trying to fully implement a product development system will face is that there is truth in both of those arguments What one must realize is that the arguments like those typically mean that the enterprise is missing an opportunity to improve as an enterprise Some anecdotal evidence to this is when organizations start looking for ways to transfer lessons learned The fact is that like humans enterprises transfer lessons learned by embedding those lessons within memory in support of future processing What must be realized is that the memory of an organization belongs within the confines of the product development system Learning no doubt will involve changes to logic and content of the product development system Lesson will only be transferred within the reaches of the processes that are being improved It is for this reason that enterprise level management must commit to implementation of a process across the enterprise in order to establish a memory that will be consistently improved in support of enterprise wide performance Some of the first steps required to begin down this path are to Predict and mitigate any risk involving culture change Socialize the idea that individual contributors will need to know their individual scopes budgets schedules and what work products their work specifically maps to in the product development process Identify clear ownership of the product development process down to the task level by functional manager Train individuals on the intent of product developments processes Establish a help desk for the mapping of reality to process Within an engineering group at Raytheon SAS Robert P Wright asked some of his team members to consider building a systems dynamic model of the entire SAS Enterprise And so began development of a model based on the Enterprise Management System used by Raytheon but everything came to a halt when one simple question was asked Where shall we go for the inputs to the system It was then the team realized that in order to understand how the enterprise was doing in terms of their product development process specific information was required from individual contributors on their own performance AND it must map to the process We had each of our employees and functional managers identify which pieces of our stage gate process they were working on and record that data in a centralized tracking tool Once each employee knows how his or her work maps to our standard stage gate process management can begin to record analyze and act upon performance metrics These performance metrics tell us specifically where we deviate from the process how we are performing on the various process segments and in which process areas we are performing to plan 2 THE LEAP FROM PROCESS DEFINITION TO QUANTIFICATION There is a vast difference between Capability Maturity Model Integration CMMI Level 3 and CMMI Levels 4 and 5 An organization that has achieved CMMI Level 3 is recognized as having a defined process which is a managed process that is tailored from the organization's set of standard process according to the organization's tailoring guidelines and contributes work products measures and other process improvement information to the organizational process assets 3 Level 4 the quantitatively managed level is defined as a defined process that is controlled using statistical and other quantitative techniques 4 CMMI Level 5 the optimization level takes this concept even further by having a quantitatively managed process that is improved based on an understanding of the common causes of variation inherent in the process 5 Clearly moving from having a defined process to one that is quantitatively managed and eventually to a self-optimizing level of process maturity requires making a dramatic leap from simply having a process to maximizing its effect on the quality and predictability of an organization's work 3 THE ELEGANT SOLUTION By combining industry standard accounting infrastructure SAP our company's stage-gate process and a customized intelligent system to map the two together we have enabled our leaders to quantitatively manage our process-based performance and to optimize the process itself Effectively our system tracks which work products employees are working on integrates with our SAP-based accounting system to allow the mapping of time charges to work products and then allows functional managers to regularly status individual work product's qualities and completion statistics Initial Information Loading Our management system encourages performance-oriented dialogue between employees and their functional and program supervisors using the language of our stage gate process Employees and managers sit down to define the scope of the employee's work in terms of process work products and then define the task's budget and duration This information is entered one time per work product per employee and immediately gives our organization a comprehensive view of all tasks in work and perhaps more importantly those tasks not currently in work as well as 2 3 Chrissis Konrad and Shrum 47 4 Chrissis Konrad and Shrum 48 5 Chrissis Konrad and Shrum 48 2 


their respective due dates and budgets This dialog and the information that results enables employees to take ownership of their work and to aggressively pursue their performance cost and schedule goals on their individual efforts Financial Integration Each work product mapped to an employee is further mapped to one of the employee's authorized timecard charge numbers Our system then integrates with our organization's SAP-based timecard system to identify the amount of time spent on each employee's work product When combined with the budget and schedule information allocated during the work product's initial information loading described above as well as the statusing information below this enables a plethora of financial and earned value type performance metrics Information Statusing Each work product entered for an employee is then statused by the employee's functional supervisor at regular intervals to provide for additional quantitative management and metric generation capabilities Functional managers meet with their employees on a regular basis to evaluate their work product performance Each work product's perceived quality and measured completion percentage is then entered into our tool enabling the generation of a whole suite of powerful financial and performance metrics such as CPI SPI TCPI TSPI ETC EAC employee work loading and likelihoods of successful completion 4 BENEFITS Process Establishing an approach to relate actual work to the fundamental elements of the process work products enables process optimization Without such an approach process remains in the world of theory far removed from the reality of actual work Ultimately a process whose definition and correctness is of the highest maturity will have no benefit to the organization that lacks process adherence By linking the process work products to actual work products there is opportunity to directly associate plans budgets and performance to the process This enables control and optimization Behavioral/Cultural We have employed our tool not only as a means of facilitating the use and optimization of our process but also as a cultural change agent By creating a culture where the discussions and questioning of budgets scope expectations and completion dates happen on a regular basis between functional management program management and individual engineering contributors we have engrained in our organization a culture of performance with our stage gate process serving as an outline for communication Our formalized way of doing business through this tool also creates a culture of employee empowerment Employees who have formal documentation of their managers expectations and of their budget and schedule as well as the frequent feedback and metrics required to evaluate their own progress have the tools they need to take full ownership of their results Employees cannot be expected to exceed or even regularly meet budget schedule and performance expectations if those expectations were never formally and explicitly communicated Another key cultural improvement is the complete adoption of the process as our way of doing business from the language used to communicate expectations to the execution of work to the scheduling of tasks and setting of budgets Employees and managers no longer merely perform work to our stage gate process but actually communicate with each other through its standardized set of terms and through standard documentation and tools Having everyone focused on performing to a single gold standard of doing business our stage gate process allows our organization to truly optimize the process performance If an organization were not to fully embrace a process there would be no reason to improve and optimize the process itself it would be shelf-ware In our organization the process is the fundamental backbone of how we do business and thus any changes we implement to optimize the process immediately begin to optimize our overall program execution and performance as well Performance Tweaking our organization's stage gate process can be considered a top-down approach to performance improvement but how does one improve performance from the bottom-up at the individual contributor level Our tool allows us to effectively and instantaneously measure performance to the process at any level from the entire organization to particular functional areas to particular programs to a single team all the way down to an individual engineer This extraordinary breadth of visibility when combined with the depth of our metric generation capabilities which include a full suite of quality and earned value type metrics for every individual work product provides our management team with unprecedented insight into our performance Management can see where we are vastly exceeding cost schedule and performance expectations and more importantly can quickly identify any areas where we are not quite performing to plan before they ever were to become insurmountable problems Not only can immediate action be taken technical or management support can be given training can be provided or staffing adjustments can be 3 


executed but the real-time impact of these adjustments can be seen and quantitatively measured to determine if any further action is required Do you want to know if that training class you sent your team to actually improved their performance Now you can measure the improvement With our system minor deviations in expected cost schedule or technical performance are immediately identified and can be solved before they ever develop into problems This real-time metric capability enables the implementation of even more remarkable management tools that go beyond illuminating the current state of performance to actually being able to offer statistical predictions of future performance Since we already know the input-output relationship of every work product in our stage gate process as well as each of their completion and quality statuses we can input all of this information into a system dynamics model to predict the likelihood of on-time high performance work product results in the future With this model to be described in our paper next year we can view the statistical probabilities of future performance given today's operating environment If a work product is delayed of lower than expected quality or even intentionally tailored out today we can immediately determine how future work products will be impacted to-use easy-to-access expert system The result of this expert system is that functional and program management have an unprecedented view of their team's performance including CPI SPI TCPI TSPI ETC EAC employee work loading and likelihoods of successful completion available at the individual work product level and aggregatable up to each integrated product team program functional group business area or product line and even to the organization as a whole Finally while any manager would love to look at a snapshot of these metrics from any point in time our system allows them to go much further than that by making each of these views into the organization's performance available real-time This allows the performance tuning of an organization performance can be measured adjustments can be made and results can be immediately evaluated Now that is a process that has extraordinary impact on real-world performance 5 CONCLUSION Stage gate processes tell an organization the best way to perform their work in order to achieve a high likelihood of success but how can an organization effectively measure how well this prescribed process is being followed how any tweaks or adjustments made affect performance or measure the impact that beyond-process improvements such as training have on final cost schedule and performance results How do organizations optimize their processes and more importantly how do they hope to effectively correlate process improvements and optimizations to improvements in the area that truly matters performance The answer to all of these questions is to fully integrate the process into each and every employee's work to encourage employees to explore the details of their supervisors expectations using the unified language of an organization's stage gate process and then to constantly monitor evaluate and analyze performance at every level and slice of the organization of interest Our system does just that It directly ties our stage gate process to the work being performed by our individual contributors on programs by requiring functional managers to sit down with each of their employees and map their daily work efforts to the process work products and to explicitly define the scope budget and schedule for each task It then clearly links our SAPbased financial tracking system to each work product allowing the gathering of actual charges and budget consumption and combines this information into one easy4 


Sample Work Product Distribution 16 0 14 E 12 0 o 10 08 a 8 0 6 40 0 Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Work Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product Product 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Figure 1 Sample Work Product Distribution 5 


REFERENCES 1 Chrissis Mary Beth Mike Konrad and Sandy Shrum CMMI Guidelines for Process integration and Product Improvement Second Edition Boston Pearson Education Inc 2 Zanthus.com Web site http://www.zanthus.com 3 Aerospace Conference Web site http://www.aeroconf.org BIOGRAPHIES Joseph Farrier is a Chief Process Engineer and Integrated Business Lead at Space and Airborne Systems in El Segundo CA Joseph holds a Bachelors of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Texas A&M University and a Master of Science in Engineering Management from the University of Southern California He can be reached via email at joefarriergraytheon.com Josef Salerno is an Engineering Rotator with Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems in El Segundo CA His work has ranged from Radar Mode Analysis to the development of a variety of leadership methods and tools used for performance measurement and optimization staffing training and metrics management throughout the organization Josef holds a Bachelors of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Southern California where he is currently pursuing his Masters degree in Engineering Management Mr Salerno's technical interests include systems engineering software development and digital hardware design In his free time he enjoys snowboarding cooking and traveling He can be reached via email at joesalernograytheon.com 6 


  7 Concurrence of Phase I Report and the Phase II Proposal For all SBIRs, the Phase I effort final report and subsequent Phase II proposal are concurrent. As the time for a Phase I program is short \(six months\ost inevitable that the company is scrambling to comple te the objectives of Phase I while also producing a detailed Phase II proposal. Allowing for two weeks between the end of Phase I \(at which time the report is due\and the due date for the Phase II proposal would greatly reduce stress upon the team, provide for a better final report, and result in a better Phase II proposal Agency Broadcasting of Technology Needs and Desires While the pre-solicitation discussion prior to the release of the technology development needs/topics is usually helpful a more \223as they become available\224 release of technical topics would allow small businesses more time to formulate a better informed response. In NASA\222s case, there is no time between topic release and the blackout period, while the DoD does allow some time for questions and answers Extending this time may be impossible due to the fairness rules of the solicitation, but it should be pursued if at all possible. This would take the form of a \223Request for Information\224 as is now released for large procurements SBIRs and the TRL level of Hardware The SBIR process is meant to allow small companies to pursue innovation to the benefit of the company as well as the United States. In this regard, the relatively low funding level of SBIR Phase I research provides some impediment to the production of hardware.  While it is understood that the government does not want to commit too much funding to an \223unproven\224 product or process, the current low funding levels do not allow for an adequate amount of HARDWARE to prove out the concept.  In this way, the SBIR program as now defined tends to allow for only very basic proofs of concepts and sometimes this may provide inadequate information to justify the commitment of the much-larger Phase II funds.   We feel the program would be much better served to allow for greater Phase I funding as this would allow for better Phase II decisions and ultimately result in a better return for the government and, of course the company SBIR Law:  A Note about Pending Legislation As this paper is being written, there are competing House and Senate bills in the Unite d States Congress that would modify the rules of the SBIR program. While the Senate version would keep the current, highly successful program intact, the House version cont emplates immediate Phase II awards, redefinition of small business to allow for the participation of larger entities through direct investment in the small business and other provisions that would greatly increase the competition to include non-small business entities. When this paper is presented, an update to the outcome of this legislation will be provided 9  C ONCLUSIONS  In conclusion, the SBIR program is a valuable tool to the government to foster innovation. Studies by the National Research Council 1 have confirmed that the resulting value to the American tax payer is high and this program should be continued substantially in its present form. It is the responsibility of the small business involved to provide quality responses to the SBIR program solicitations. The methods discussed in this paper should provide the small business with the guidance so that it can do its part of the work to keep this program highly successful. In that regard the small business should 200  Ensure that the SBIR program process is a longterm commitment of the top management of the company 200  Maintain a commitment to the technical excellence of the products produced for the SBIR and assure they are aligned with the objectives of the customer\(s 200  Establish a clear set of technical objectives and maintain focus on those objectives through a structured proposal format, rigorous review process and dialogue with the customer 200  Communicate clearly and often with the customer through the review process, periodic \(every one to two weeks\munications and whenever it is deemed necessary by the TPOC or PL The Result is Success By following these guidelines, the success of the program is NOT ensured, but it is insured that NOT following this process greatly reduces the chance of both the Government and the company achieving the desired innovative results  R EFERENCES  1 Ch arles W  W essn er, Ed ito r, Co m m ittee o n  Capitalizing on Science, Technology, and Innovation An Assessment of the Small Business Innovation Research Program, National Research Council  


  8 B IOGRAPHIES  Grant Anderson is Vice President Engineering/Chief Engineer and Founder of Paragon Space Development Corporation. He has 23 years of experience in spacecraft systems design, requirements formulation and preliminary and detail hardware design specializing in spacecraft arch itecture, spacecraft systems engineering, life support systems design and analysis establishing and leading technical teams toward welldefined goals and requirements, and maintaining expert teams of engineers and administrative personnel on goals that demonstrate technical excellence. He is formerly the Chief Design Engineer for the International Space Station Solar Arrays when emplo yed by Lockheed Martin Mr. Anderson is affiliated with American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \(AIAA\ \(Senior Member Deputy Director\, Society of Automotive Engineers \(SAE and former Member, AIAA National Design Engineering Committee on Standards Boards of Advisors. He has a BSME from Stanford University and MS Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University    Dr. Christine Iacomini is Director of Research and Development.  She is currently Principle Investigator on three NASA SBIR Phase 2 contracts. She also served as Project Lead for the SBIR Phase 2 \223Integral Radiators for Next Generation Thermal Control\224, from which Paragon incorporated radiator development technology into the Orion Program winning bid by Lockheed Martin.. Her affiliation with NASA began in 1989 as a cooperative engineering intern at NASA Johnson Space Center, while earning her B.S. in Engineering from Purdue. She has a M.S. in Aerospace Engineering from The University of Texas, applying GPS data to in-space relative positioning and shuttle orbit determination. In 1996, Dr. Iacomini hired on at NASA JSC as an engineer and served as one of the X-38 parafoil Principle Investigators,. In 1999 she left NASA to earn her Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering at the University of Arizona, focusing on thermal sciences  


  9  


maintenance and catching and sanctioning cheaters Moreover, game play and chat in the GU league differ from public server play, in that GU league play emphasizes teamwork and cooperation among players over individual prowess, whereas in public server play, individual differences in skill and the advantages of superflags can result in the appearance of unfair advantage, leading to taunting and complaining. These limitations could be addressed by analyzing a wider range of BZFlag activities and contexts Analysis of chat in other MOGs is also necessary in order to test the claim that chat differs systematically in MMORPGs and FPSs. Although the present study was limited to text chat, in-game voice chat is a growing trend in MOGs. Future research should analyze audio conversations, so as to determine the effects of modality on in-game chatting. Other methods, such as eye tracking, could also be used to investigate empirically how user attention is distributed dynamically across features of game interfaces Finally, the methods used in this study could be extended to non-gaming environments in which chat cooccurs with other media use. This would provide a broader comparative base from which to generalize about chat and chatability in coactive media  8. References  1 C h e r ny L  1999 Conversation and community: Chat in a virtual world Stanford, CA: CSLI 2 Crawf o r d  C. \(1 9 8 4   The art of computer game design  Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill  Du ch en eau t N  M o o r e R  J 2 0 0 4   T h e so cial sid e o f  gaming: A study of interaction patterns in a massively multiplayer online game Proceedings of CSCW 2004 NY ACM  Du ch en eau t  N  Yee N  Nickell E   M o o r e R J  2006\. "Alone together?": exploring the social dynamics of massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 5 H a hs le r, M K o c h S. \(20 0 4  p e r a tio n a nd dis r uptive behaviour - Learning from a multi-player internet gaming community. In P. Kommers, P. Isaias, & M. B. Nunes Eds IADIS International Conference Web Based Communities 2004 pp. 35-42\ Lisbon: IADIS 6 Herrin g S. C  1 9 9 9 a  ter actio n a l co h e ren ce i n CMC  Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 4 1 http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol4/issue1/herring.html 7 H e rring S. C  1 99 9b T h e rhe t oric a l dy nam i c s of  g e nde r harassment online The Information Society, 15 3\, 151-167 8 H e r r i ng S. C   200 3 D y nam i c topic a n a l y s is o f sy nchronous chat. In New Research for New Media: Innovative Research Methodologies Symposium Working Papers Minneapolis: U Minn School of Journalism and Mass Comm http://ella.slis.indiana.edu/~herring/dta.2003.pdf 9 H e rring S C K u r t z  A  J  20 06 V i s u a liz ing D y na m ic Topic Analysis Proceedings of CHI 06 NY: ACM  1 Ko K-K 19 96   S t ru ct u r al ch aracteristics o f co m p u t ermediated language: A comparative analysis of InterChange discourse Electronic Journal of Communication, 6 3 http://www.cios.org 11 L o je sk i, K S Re illy R  Dom i nic k P  2 00 7 u ltitasking and innovation in virtual teams Proceedings of HICSS-39 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 12  Ma g lio P P   Ca m pbe ll, C. S 2 0 00 T r a d e o ff s in displaying peripheral information Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  New York: ACM 13 Ma n n i n e n T  K u ja np   T  2005 T h e hunt f o r c o llaborative war gaming - CASE: Battlefield 1942 Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research 5 1\ http://www.gamestudies.org/0501/manninen_kujanpaa 14 Ma rk G G udith, D  K l oc k e U  200 8 h e c o s t of  interrupted work: More speed and stress Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 15 N a rdi, B H a rris  J  2006 ng e r s a nd f r ie nds  Collaborative play in World of Warcraft Proceedings of CSCW 2006 pp. 149-158\ew York: ACM 16 N a rdi, B L y S H a rris   J  20 07 e a r ning c onv e r sations in World of Warcraft Proceedings of HICSS 40 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 17 O l de nb ur g  R   1 9 89  The great good place: Cafes coffee shops, bookstores, bars, hair salons and other hangouts at the heart of a community NY: Paragon Books 18  P e a J   H a nc oc k  J  T  20 06 A n a n a l y s is of s o cioemotional and task communication in online multiplayer video games Communication Research, 33 1\, 92-109 19  Ste i nk ue hle r  C 2 0 06 M a ssiv e l y  m u ltipla y e r online  videogaming as participation in a discourse Mind, Culture and Activity, 13 1\, 38-52 20 Ste i nk ue hle r C W illia m s D. \(200 6 h e r e e v e r y body knows your \(screen\me: Online games as "third places Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 11 4\://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol11/issue4/steinkuehler.html 21 W i k i pe dia  2 0 0 8  J une 15  Coactive media  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coactive_media 22 W r ig ht, T Boria  E Bre ide nba c h  P. \(20 02 Cre a tive player actions in FPS online video games: Playing Counter-Strike Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research, 2 2\ http://www.game studies.org/0202/wright 23  Ze le nk a u s k a ite A  H e rri ng S. C  2 00 8 T e le v i s i onmediated conversation: Coherence in Italian iTV SMS chat Proceedings of HICSS 41 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


