Development of Reprogrammable High Frame-Rate Detector Devices for Laser Communication Pointing Acquisition and Tracking Terita Norton Kenneth Conner Richard Covington Hung Ngo and Christine Rink The Aerospace Corporation 2350 E El Segundo Blvd M/S M4-993 El Segundo CA 90245 Terita.R.Norton\(aero.org Kenneth.A.Conner 
aero.org Richard.A.Covingtongaero.org Hung.Ngogaero.org Christine.RinkWaero.org Abstract A Two Terminal Laser Communication Test Bed has been 
developed at The Aerospace Corporation This paper presents the design and preliminary results of a reprogrammable detector within the Test Bed for use in pointing acquisition and tracking between a Satellite-toSatellite Laser Communication link The detector may be commanded by an emulated spacecraft Command  Data Handling subsystem to switch between full-array scanning 
and small sized N x M pixel Field of View FOV for high-rate laser tracking The approach follows a parallel path to implement the signal processing algorithm on two different hardware resources a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and a Digital Signal Processor DSP The focus of this effort is to present a methodology for testing 
and evaluating various techniques for advanced focal plane array FPA hardware as well as sensor FPA control image processing and laser beam X  Y position algorithms.12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION  1 2 DEFINITION OF THE CENTRIOD ALGORITHM 2 3 LASER COMMUNICATION TEST BED 
2 4 FPGA DETECTOR 
ARCHITECTURE  
SYSTEM.2 4.1 FPA SENSOR  3 4.2 CONFIGURATION STATUS.3 4.3 CENTROID CALCULATION...........................3 4.4 PC INTERFACE  4 5 DSP DETECTOR SYSTEM 4 6 DETECTOR EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS...........5 6.1 COMPUTER SIMULATION  5 6.2 LASER POINTER TEST  5 6.3 DETECTOR TEST BED TESTS  5 7 CONCLUSION  
6 REFERENCES 6 BIOGRAPHY 7 1 INTRODUCTION Several space based communication systems have investigated laser based communication links between a satellite and another satellite or a high flying aircraft These systems include European Space Agency's ESA Artemis Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency's JAXA OICETs and the Department of Defense's DoD TSAT 6 Laserbased communication systems 
offer greater capabilities than RF systems but present greater challenges in implementation One such challenge involves the difficulty of acquiring and tracking a concentrated beam of laser light arriving from another platform across the far reach of space 1 This development is follow-on to work that began in 2002 in support of The Aerospace Corporation's 
Laser Communication Corporate Strategic Initiative CSI 4 It will enhance the capability to evaluate and optimize  1-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 
IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1414 Version 3 Updated October 31 2007 advanced FPA processing electronics image processing and sensor positioning control algorithms and hardware characterizations for upcoming programs such as 1 


Figure5yM m Sh 364..t.tsU u.;~~.Figur 3 V.iVSE jv wIj=l i=l ml I P i Va J XCentroid  Val J K m nl K F zeIix Val Y Centroid  K Figure 2 Detectors Terminal 2 Terminal I Transformational Communications MILSATCOM TCM This development will also automate the laser acquisition and tracking process by simulating the link between two satellite terminals located 80,000 kilometers apart To accomplish this link Focal Plane Array FPA advanced processing electronics was created The first implementation contains a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA based detector system connected to a focal plane array FPA operating in the visible spectrum The second implementation consists of a DSP which will perform the pixel processing algorithms and a low-cost FPGA to function as the FPA controller FPGAs were chosen for their inherent high speed processing capability low power consumption and rapid re-programmability for iterative algorithm development evaluation and modification as well as the ease of integrating them with other electronic components DSPs were selected for evaluating more computationally intensive algorithms unsupported by FPGA technology Section 2 defines and describes the centroid algorithm Section 3 describes the architecture and components of the laser communication test bed Section 4 describes the hardware detector system Section 5 discusses some detector experiments and results Section 6 provides concluding remarks and future work 2 DEFINITION AND REQUIREMENT OF CENTROID ALGORITHM Establishing a laser communication link between two spacecraft terminals requires a laser pointing scheme that consists of detector hardware to perform an acquisition and tracking process that allows the two terminals to lock onto one another To establish this communication an imageprocessing algorithm is used This algorithm contains a user-programmable threshold that enables the detection of the laser light impinging on the Focal Plane Array FPA and the subsequent calculation of the X and Y Cartesian coordinates of the laser light's centroid The centroid algorithm has been implemented as a weighted average similar to the calculation of the center of mass with the mass being the photon count Where K 1 m number of rows n number of columns Data Handling system to switch between full-array scanning medium sized and small sized n x m pixel Windows of Interest WOI for high-rate laser tracking The Two Terminal Laser Communication Test Bed contains approximately sixty components including visible lasers fast and coarse steering mirrors lenses beam splitters custom-built FPA-based optical detectors and a far field simulator that emulates the performance of laser terminals mounted on two geosynchronous satellites The laser beam on terminal 1 scans the uncertainty zone while the terminal 2 detector stares for a laser hit The high rate processing of the detectors serve to establish an optically closed loop 3 TEST BED ARCHITECTURE The Two Terminal Laser Communications Test Bed is sensor implementations Figure 4 reveals the concept in which design elements common to both platforms on field programmable gate array FPGA and/or digital signal processor DSP technologies The detector may be commanded by an emulated spacecraft Command  4 FPGA DETECTOR SYSTEM To facilitate rapid hardware design a single FPGA development platform was utilized to support both are shown in 2 a rapid prototyping environment suitable for the development of high frame-rate focal plane array FPA detector systems based 


Sontrol Add 1  Statuw Dat1 Og POR Clk 00 POR Clk i  E\(1O Addo1 2 Control3 Dat Controls 4Addr\(l O Status Data\(l 16 LED\(1 O Addr\(12 Controls\(3 6 Addr\(22 Controls\(7 IData64 IPGA Block no changel IFPGA Block nminior changes DISP Block new Figure 4 4.1 FPA Sensor The FPA sensor is a Micron MT9M4 13 CMOS digital image sensor capable of 500 frames-per second fps operation with an array size of 1,280H x 1,024V 1.3 mega pixel The Micron sensor can be operated in one of four modes 1 TrueSNAP freeze-frame electronic shutter 2 Electronic Rolling Shutter 3 TrueSNAP Simultaneous Mode 4 TrueSNAP Sequential Mode gold colored blocks while functions unique to the DSP implementation are illustrated in green and blue The Centroid Calculation Algorithm CCA block illustrated in figure 4 appears in both implementations For the DSP implementation the CCA function is disabled however data manipulation circuits within the block remain operational This development will only make use of the TrueSNAP sequential mode In sequential mode the control signals PG N and TX_N are exercised to control the integration time This is followed by digitization and readout of the frame The FPA sensor operates at 33MHz which is equivalent to 4 ptsec readout per row 4.2 Configuration Status The Configuration and status register CSR block contains configuration and status information available to the dSpace software In the case of the DSP detector system the CSR is accessible to both dSpace and the DSP development board Additional CSR registers include mode of operation threshold value and centroid X coordinate XBar and centroid Y coordinate YBar spot intensity operational status and pixel data array characteristics row address column address and pixel data The Detector may be configured in Hold Mode ROI Mode and AUTOMAN Mode When Hold Mode is asserted the Detector is prevented from updating centroid or pixel data information because the user is reading from memory In AUTOMAN Mode the Detector autonomously controls the switching between a given Region of Interest ROI dependent on the results of the most recent centroid calculation When the detector is configured to be in ROI Mode it is preset to Full Field of View FFOV Medium Field of View MFOV or Small Field of View SFOV The Full FOV is defined as the largest area on the FPA and is the initial start-up mode of operation This ROI also has an integration time of 40 msec with a 4 msec readout rate and 25 frames per second The Medium FOV is defined as 256 rows centered about the center row and has an integration time of lmsec with lmsec readout and 1000 frames per second Lastly the Small FOV is defined as 25 rows centered about the center row and has an integration time of 100 ptsec with 100 ptsec readout and 10000 frames per second The Threshold value is used by the centroid calculation to determine which pixel's energy is high enough to be used in the X and Y centroid calculation The threshold is programmed by the user but is initialized to 0x200 XBar is the centroid position along the X coordinate or row number while the YBar is the centroid position along the Y coordinate or column number Spot Intensity is the summation of all the pixel values above the threshold The values for XBar YBar and Spot Intensity are updated every frame The Operation Status register outputs the ROI location of the centroid coordinate 4.3 Centroid Calculation The FPGA Detector processing hardware receives the pixel 3 INNAAMMMOOMM 


ht 14:2 AA XBaa r\(lVld P8fstiml 1 0 Seia Di 0  A Pyum 1 1 A Ps mT-D P w ADSP 1S201S M7f  BOOT FFTE  I E PROM POR OPW TIONAL LOCK SCLK V aCL KAT2-O ADDR RFRNE sCLF 0OE DATA REFEREN E REF D~RSM MEORY i DRAM DAT  tl DTA OPTIOAL ID24  a block diagram of the centroid calculation algorithm Figure 6 illustrates the single processor configuration The shared bus connected FPGA coprocessor performs image acquisition data formatting and threshold functions Figure 7 4 WrO 0 P Whrl 4 B _ fD i PSumO\(2&0 PYSumO\(37:0 PXSumG\(37.,O AD H PROCESSOR CoD TO OPN D~~~~MRA DCE CKE FwSbiKg 1-1 im DnU 1 1DATA  lOA LDCLEOJFRDh RlE Fi g|LKOUre 6.PTI LINK L-btC F NRF Vw ADR ODO K R R ACK DQM ILD OM ORT M _ 1 u g/ti\247~~W 31:0 aA>B t fa 0l1 Q_ 4Ay 1 Figure 5 data via the FPA interface and stores only those pixels greater than the predetermined threshold The FPGA then calculates the XBar and YBar values based   PixelCount\(20-;0t Wr9 1 Staqe3 Stage3 Pxsu fT9-o ASerial-Divider PY;suml tCLK US EiEFU:4 a software system developed in Matlab and C that emulates the spacecraft Command  Data Handling system The dSpace real-time system communicates asynchronously with the Detector system via a 50-pin ribbon cable 5 DSP DETECTOR SYSTEM Analog Devices Incorporated ADI TS20 1S DSP PStSM9 9 on the centroid equation shown in Figure 2 The total spot intensity is also calculated by the FPGA This data is then available for retrieval by the spacecraft Command  Data Handling system within dSpace 4.4 PC Interface The dSpace software command and control system is Div EN Q 1t  f l~~~0 n tensity\(30,O l1 5 EI4V  UAX LAXI1NJ 11 P"MAW I L:xC hTKENP i L 11 ACKI Figure 6 was selected for the DSP detector implementation Features include 128-bit internal bus widths 24M bits of on-chip DRAM integrated I/0 peripherals DMA controller and shared bus connectivity for glueless multiprocessing ADI's TS-20 1 EZ-KIT Lite development board was utilized for the DSP implementation due to its dual processor configuration that includes connectorized access to the 64-bit shared data bus Expansion Interface capable of supporting transfers rates approaching 6.4-Gbps Figure 5 displays 


Communication between FPGA and DSP is accomplished cX015D acimal  349 45035 ns dspacce Read 0Si 01 OS OxO190 decimal  25 453105 ns dspace Read OOO2 Total Interisty 0  Ox40 decimal  19056 7455025 sdopace Read M00M Detector status  OxObOO dec-ma  0 d-------Reaiilg Added Test Registert t  7463545 ns dspace ead x010 start ROW Address  Ox00 deciral  0  466265 rs dSpCe Rea OxOll End RtO Adress 0=0000 decima  0 468985 ns lpace Rea 0012 c Threshold calue OxlOO deimal  ns dspace Recad OA c Piel Data  O-x280,e ROW 348 Col  23 Val 73 Figure 9 Figure 8 Figure 10 were incorporated into the VHDL code whose outputs on the FPA When the laser is detected on locations 4 5 was integrated into the Two Terminal Laser Communication Test Bed To help facilitate this test functions were developed to generate laser spot data for both detector implementations 6 DETECTOR EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS A number of tests were conducted both in hardware and software to verify and evaluate the accuracy of the FPGA Detector System The DSP Detector system will be verified in similar fashion upon completion of development 6.1 Computer Simulation VHDL test benches  62  was developed in Matlab Script files ensure proper functionality of the FPGA Detector before it O 1 485305 n[s dspaCe Read 0x018 Avferage Pixel vWalue  GX{i02FA decl,Diml 40005 ds space Read 001 Detector ormmand A  000007 ecima a 0 74 dXP017D t Ot 10 0  Ox0019 decinal 25 7474425 256 a 410 Space REA OX013 Pixel Tally Coun t 0 7 a dSpace model The test directives included Row Column Intensity Row Column Radius Frame Number and Expected Centroid The FPA model used the directives to emulate light 174571 ns space cad ORe 15 Total Intensity 1  boOb0O decmal were laser location ROI indicator and average spot intensity Figure 10 shows were created in Modelsim to verify the functionality of the FPGA Detector prior to programming the FPGA Hardware The test bench contained test directives 1 482585 ns dISpalce Read DxMf etector Startus 1  0:0001 decimal an interrupt request The DSP responds to the interrupt request by configuring a DMA transfer DMA completion is indicated by an interrupt request that points to the centroid computation code XBar YBar and spot intensity are then calculated Algorithmic results are then DMA transferred to the FPGA The Program Code flowchart is illustrated in figure 7 The DSP based Detector is shown in figure 8 Data for DSP and FPGA algorithm testing an average intensity greater than 512 128 and 9 pixels respectively 5 t 2uL 1 s t~c i 1a S l~t t g-s S0Ltyl d f 7445375 ns calculaticon of xbar  ybar is completed A LED Display cenrold quadrant  2 iull-Fov0 Average Ietnsrity 76 A a block diagram of the external representation of the FPGA Detector System The row/column grid indicates the laser location Readi1nig dlspace Registers 441665 ls dSpace Read 0000 X-POS Reabdi nig Pi Xel Data  7493025 ns dspace Rcad 00 Pixe1 c ata  0 5EE  7495745 as being in the MFOV and illuminated the MFOV LED Lastly the last three locations 0 ns dspace Read x01 Pel Taaly coult C  oxoooo decimal across the DSP expansion Interface bus Data is available for transfer when the FPGA issues an FPA model and source and perform FPA timing The dSpace model read the X Y position after each frame and performed dSpace timing Figure 9 shows a simulation transcript where 25 data points or pixels were detected by the FPGA and used to calculate the X and Y centroid average spot intensity and total spot intensity The simulation also provides debug capabilities by outputting the ROI mode and which quadrant of the 3x3 LED Display the spot is detected 6.2 Laser Pointer Test A hardware verification test using a laser pointer was developed to were displayed via LED displays These functions or 6 in the 3x3 grid the detector identified these on the Bar LED indicate 


400 300 200 100 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 Laser Voltage V Figure 11 Tl S-ufmato of PixeI Intenslity Sampled  KHz7 6.3 Detector Test Bed Tests A number of verification test cases were developed to evaluate the detector system's perform once integrated with the dSpace software executive These test cases include but are not limited to Power Threshold Readout Noise and Frame Rate The Power Threshold test evaluates the lower and upper if any power limit on the detector using a laser in the full field of view FFOV and medium field of view MFOV This test was conducted with a cold and warm start The laser was switched from full power to zero power and then from zero power to full power The laser voltage threshold necessary to record the centroid while overcoming all readout noise effects was measured at 0.876 V This is shown in Figure 11 The Readout Noise test was used to determine the baseline readout noise of the detector Initial test results for the Readout Noise test is shown in Figure 12 The Frame Rate test was used to test the actual frames per second fps of the detector for the FFOV and SFOV with the output coming from the dSpace software 7 CONCLUSION The Aerospace Two Terminal Laser Communications Test Bed provides the capability to effectively support and lead the modeling simulation and analysis efforts for various electro-optics and laser communication programs The FPGA Detector system design development and test were completed which included algorithm capabilities to detect and track the region of interest in which a laser is detected The DSP Detector system as of the writing of this paper is under development Follow-on work for this effort includes creating a custom interface PCB that will allow us to readout every pixel on the FPA sensor This enhancement will give us the capability to run a Bad Pixel Map test to determine if there are any defective pixel locations on the FPA sensor and to remove the Bad Pixels and the effects there or in the centroid calculations ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Research was conducted under an Internal Research and Development IRAD grant from the Engineering and Technology Group of The Aerospace Corporation The authors would like to thank the Electromechanical Controls Department of The Aerospace Corporation REFERENCES 1 John Maksyomwicz and Kenneth Conner Research Horizons Laser Beam Acquisition and Tracking Crosslink Ground Systems Volume 7 Number 1 Spring 2006 pp 43 2 S Monacos A Portillo W Liu J Alexander and G Ortiz A High Frame Rate CCD Camera with Region of Interest Capability 2001 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings Vol 3 March 10-13 2001 pp 1513 1521 3 A Portillo G Ortiz and C Rancho Fine Pointing Control for Optical Communications 2001 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings Vol 3 March 10-13 2001 pp 1541-1550 4 P Zomkowski J Maksyomwicz and K Conner Test Bed for Analyzing High Frame Rate Devices with Reprogrammable Capabilities AIAA2004 Guidance Navigation and Control Conference and Exhibit August 16-19 2004 5 S Monacos R Lam A Portillo G Ortiz Design of an event driven random access windowing CCDbased camera in Free-Space Laser Communication Technologies XV Proceedings of the SPIE Vol 4975 2003 6 C Hindman S Lacy and N Hatten Image Based Acquisition and Tracking for Multi-Access Laser Communications 2006 IEEE Aerospace Conference March 4-11 2006 pp 1-10 6 Dl 964II 958 9440 238 Samples Power Threshold Threshold 120 600 Full FOV 500 X  xi0 Figure 12 


BIOGRAPHY Terita Norton is a Senior Member of Technical Staff in the Digital and Integrated Circuit Electronics Department at The Aerospace Corporation in El Segundo California She supports design modeling and analysis of FPGAs and ASICs for various programs She received her B.S and MS in Electrical Engineering from Florida State University in 2000 and 2002 respectively Her current area of interest is in digital electronics communications and space systems engineering Kenneth Conner is a Laboratory Associate in the Digital and Integrated Circuit Electronics Department at The Aerospace Corporation He completed eight years service in the US Marine Corps as an Avionics Systems Technician on the McDonnell Douglas F-4S Phantom and A-4M Skyhawk aircraft Kenny currently performs schematic capture circuit simulation printed circuit board design layout and prototyping for numerous customers He is currently a senior at California State University Long Beach majoring in electrical engineering Circuit Electronics Department She supports the design and analysis of FPGAs ASICs and digital units for various programs Richard Covington is the Director of the Digital  Integrated Circuit Electronics Department at The Aerospace Corporation in El Segundo California He received a BS in Electrical Engineering and BS in Computer Science from the University of Colorado in 1981 Boulder and a MS in Computer Engineering from University of Southern California in 1993 His primary areas of expertise are Digital  Electronic Design/Architecture Computer Design/Architecture  Digital Systems Engineering All trademarks service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners Hung Ngo graduated the University of California Los Angeles UCLA in 1984 with a B.S in Electrical Engineering He received an M.S degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Southern California USC in 1994 Hung joined The Aerospace Corporation in 2006 as an Engineering Specialist in the Digital and Integrated Circuit Electronics Department He supports all aspects of digital system development from system level development to detail FPGAIASIC design Christine Rink received her B.S in Biomedical Engineering and Electrical Engineering 1997 and M.SlE.E 2001 from the University of Southern California She is currently an Engineering Specialist at The Aerospace Corporation in the Digital and Integrated 7 


  8 system in EOC software devel opment.  One screen is used to display the main page of the Monitor and Control System GUI, and the other screen shows the GUI query page and xterm consoles of other nodes in the EOC.  Figure 6 is an example shot of the main GUI page. In the page, either an existing experiment name or a new experiment name is selected for executing operati ons.  There are 11 tables on the page which display live messages respectively received from DINET nodes.  The message display is started by selecting the \223start/update\224 button and temporarily paused by  selecting the \223Pause\224 button.  Moreover, all messages received and stored in the database can be dumped into a text file as the \223save\224 button is selected and a file name is entered. The top and middle of the page shows the network topology which is updated dynamically as the network connectivity changes  Figure 6 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI main page Figure 7 shows an example of the GUI query page.  In order to query the messages stored in the database, an experiment name is specified along with \(optionally\essage type message source node, number of messages, message creation time, and then the \223query\224 button is clicked.  The messages stored in the data which meet the query criterion are shown on the table of the query page, and those resultant messages can also be dumped into a text file by clicking the \223save\224 button and entering a file name.  The table content and topology display on both web GUI page are locally and dynamically updated without interfering with the display of the main page by the use of Ajax and Java servlet techniques 


  9 Figure 7 \226 Monitor and Control System GUI query page 4  DINET  R ESULTS  The Experiment Operations Center allowed real-time visibility into and analysis of DTN behavior in a deep space system during the DINET experiment.  With the results gathered from the operations cen ter software, an analysis was performed on the experime nt outcome characterizing the overall performance of DTN From a broad perspective, the experiment was a success in that it proved the ION software capable of space mission operation and raised the technology readiness level to that of a tested and flown software package.  The DTN concept proved capable of automatically re-transmitting missing or corrupt data without flight team intervention, specifically demonstrated during several small unplanned communications outages at DSN stations.  DTN management actions were requi red to update the ION clock aboard EPOXI on a semiweekly basis to compensate for a drifting spacecraft clock, as well as insert new routes after an unplanned power outage across the EOC network Experiment analysis yielded DTN performance benchmarks in link utilization, prioritizati on, node storage and routing For all passes with sufficient data in the transmission queue DINET maintained a link utilization rate over 90%, even when introducing artificial link errors by dropping approximately every 32 nd LTP segment.  Received data analysis confirmed that higher priority information maintained an advantage over lower priority information and also that this advantag e increased as link capacity diminished \(due to the artificial data loss on the link\.  The node storage utilization benc hmark provided proof that node storage usage stabilized over the course of the experiment, approaching steadystate.  An analysis of network traversal showed that data was efficiently moved through different paths as dictated by the ION routing algorithm when the network topology changed. This demonstrated the advantages of the routing automation afforded by the ION routing protocol 5  C ONCLUSIONS  This paper has briefly described the JPL Deep Impact Network \(DINET\ay/Disruption Networking \(DTN technology experiment, intended to increase the technical readiness DTN for space missions and supporting ground and space-based relay infrastruct ure.  This represents the first deep space implementation of DTN in flight and ground software, and paves the way for future space networks.  DINET demonstrated the Interplanetary Overlay Network \(ION\mplementation of DTN, which incorporates the Bundle Protocol and LTP retransmission protocol.  We have described the DINET Experiment Operations Center \(EOC its functions in accomplishing this experiment.  The DINET EOC starts all ION processes experiment data sources, stat us message receiver processes and display processes.  The ION-based Monitor and Control System is an innovative, intranet-based software application which receives status messages and displays live results from the DINET network.  With this Monitor and Control application, the ION software and protocol diagnostic messages issued by network nodes are collected, analyzed stored into a database in real-time.  This application also provides a web interface for viewing the data in real-time and for interactive database queries 6  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology and the Nationa l Aeronautics and Space Administration 


  10 R EFERENCES   Selected Areas in Com m unications, IEEE Journal on Volume 26, Issue 5, June 2008. The eight papers in this special issue focus on delay and disruption tolerant wireless communication   Draft  C C S DS SIS-DTN Green B ook v0.2 \(5 Sept em ber 2008 DTN/Draft%20Documents/SISDTN%20Green%20Book_v0.2.docx   V Cerf. et al., Delay To lerant Network Architecture IETF RFC 4838, informational, April 2007   Del a y Tol e rant  Net worki ng R e search Group \(DTNR G wiki: http://www.dtnrg.org/wiki/Home  S. Burleigh, \223Delay-Toler ant Networking for Space Flight Operations: Design and Development,\224 paper AIAA2008-3221, SpaceOps, 12-16 May 2008, Heidelberg Germany  K. Scot t and S B u rl ei gh 223B undl e Prot ocol  Speci fi cat i on,\224 RFC5050, experimental, November 2007   M  R a m a das S. B u rl ei gh, and S. Farrel l 223Li c kl i d er Transmission Protocol \226 Specification,\224 RFC 5326 experimental, September 2008  223Asy nchronous M e ssage Servi ce,\224 C C SDS Draft  Recommended Standard \(Red Book\CSDS 735.1-R-2 July 2008 


  11 B IOGRAPHY  J. Leigh Torgerson  leads  development and operation of spacecraft systems, with emphasis on end-to-end communications system technology.  He has over 25 years of experience in team management, aerospace system design, digital & RF electronic system integration and flight test.  He has been with Jet Propulsion Laboratory since 1992, and is currently a member of the Communications Networks Group.  He obtained an M.S. in Aeronautical System Engineering from the University of West Florida, and an B.S. in Engineering, EE/CS emphasis from UCLA    Loren Clare  is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He obtained the Ph.D. in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983. His research interests include wireless communications protocols, self-organizing systems, network systems design, modeling and analysis, and distributed control systems. Prior to joining JPL in May 2000, he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center, where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks, satellite networking, and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation  Shin-Ywan \(Cindy  is a senior member of the Communications Networks Group at JPL. She has over 20 years experience in technology development system analysis, and software engineering in the fields of document image processing mission scenario and operation analysis, and telecommunications. Cindy\222s recent work supports the development of Monitor and Control Systems for DTN experiments, link budget analysis for the Constellation program\222s DSIL SCaN simulation/emulation and TFPC Telecom Forecaster Predictor C, and Remote Asynchronous Message Service \(RAMS\ for the AMS protocol.  She has a B.S. in Electronics Engineering from National ChiaoTung University, Taiwan, and M.S and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California, Irvine      Joshua Schoolcraft  is an engineer in the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He currently runs the Protocol Technology Laboratory and coordinates software configuration and development on projects involving protocol characterization and DTN He obtained a B.S. in electrical engineering and computer engineering \(with a CS minor\ from the University of Maine in 2005 and is currently a part-time graduate student in Aeronautical & Astronautical engineering at Stanford University  


  12  


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


