A Future Global Atmospheric Composition Mission CACM Concept Nathaniel Livesey Michelle Santee Paul Stek Joe Waters Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena CA 91109 818-354-4214 liveseyWmls.jpl.nasa.gov Pieternel Levelt Pepijn Veefkind Royal Dutch Meteorological Institute The Netherlands Jack Kumer Aidan Roche Lockheed Martin Palo Alto California Abstract Resolution of important outstanding questions in air quality climate change and ozone layer stability demands global observations of multiple 
chemical species with high horizontal and vertical resolution from the boundary layer to the stratopause We present a mission concept that delivers the needed atmospheric composition observations along with cloud ice and water vapor data needed for improvements in climate and weather forecasting models The mission comprises ultraviolet and infrared nadir and microwave limb viewing instruments observing wide swaths each orbit We review the scientific goals of the mission and the measurement capabilities this 
concept will deliver We describe how precessing orbits offer significant improvements in temporal resolution and diurnal coverage compared to sun-synchronous orbits Such improvements are needed to quantify the impact of critical fast processes such as deep convection on the composition and radiative properties of the upper troposphere a region where water vapor and ozone are strong but poorly understood greenhouse gases This concept can serve 
as the Global Atmospheric Composition Mission GACM recently recommended by the National Academy of Sciences decadal survey as one of 17 priority earth science missions for the coming decade.12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 BACKGROUND OF THE MEASUREMENTS 2 3 TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES AND APPROACH 3 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2IEEEAC paper  1147 Version 4 Updated 12/14/07 4 JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS 4 
5 TECHNOLOGY COMPARISONS AND READINESS  6 6 MEASUREMENT COVERAGE AND RESOLUTION COMPARISONS 6 7 CONCLUSIONS 7 1 INTRODUCTION This paper describes a mission concept known herein as the Low Earth Orbit Multispectral Atmospheric Composition mission LEOMAC LEOMAC can serve as the Global Atmospheric Composition Mission GACM identified in the recent National Acadamy of Science decadal survey of future earth-science satellite missions for NASA and NOAA NRC 2007 The LEOMAC3 mission 
addresses crucial issues on how changes in atmospheric composition affect the quality and well-being of life both regionally and for the entire Earth LEOMAC provides data that are essential for making informed policy decisions on issues related to regional and global air quality and climate change It determines if regulations on ozone depleting substances are having the desired effect on stratospheric chemistry and ozone recovery LEOMAC provides data 
at better horizontal and vertical resolution and in the case of LEOMAC-P at much better temporal resolution all of which are needed to address critical current questions in atmospheric science and to improve the accuracy of global circulation models used for weather and climate predictions It continues the measurements from Aura that are needed long-term but will not be provided by other planned missions while adding new measurement 
capabilities that are not currently possible LEOMAC's measurements are essential for meeting the goals of NASA's 2006 Strategic Plan As stated above LEOMAC can serve as the Global 1 3 Either a precessing or sun-synchronous orbit is being considered for LEOMAC 
We here use LEOMAC-P to denote the precessing orbit version and LEOMAC-S to denote the sun-synchronous version LEOMAC is used when referring to items applicable to both orbits 1 


Atmospheric Composition Mission GACM recommended by the National Research Council Decadal Survey as one of the 14 priority Earth Observation missions for NASA to implement in the next decade The specific objectives of LEOMAC are to 1 Quantify how increasing emissions of pollutants affect air quality globally 2 Determine how the ozone layer and its chemistry are changing 3 Quantify how changing atmospheric composition is affecting climate and 4 Quantify the processes that control upper tropospheric water vapor and cloud ice Producing the measurements necessary to meet these objectives with the needed combination of global coverage accuracy precision and resolution requires multi-spectral measurements covering bands in the microwave thermal infrared short-wavelength infrared near-infrared visible and ultraviolet spectral regions LEOMAC covers these spectral bands with three instruments The candidate instruments are either advanced versions of instruments proved successful on previous missions and/or are instruments for which NASA has development programs underway The mission implementation would consist of a single satellite in low-Earth orbit producing geolocated mapped data from all instruments In addition to producing archived data for scientific research LEOMAC would also produce direct broadcast and near-real-time data for measurements not available from operational satellites that could also be used operationally 2 BACKGROUND OF THE MEASUREMENTS Human activities are changing atmospheric composition in ways that can adversely affect life on Earth Unhealthful pollution episodes are common Increasing pollution worldwide affects global and regional air quality and can affect the atmosphere's ability to cleanse itself Policy decisions related to atmospheric composition requiring balances between economic and environmental concerns must be made and continuously validated Obtaining political consensus needed for making the decisions is difficult but regulations on ozone depleting substances Montreal Protocol demonstrate that consensus on such issues can be reached if sufficient scientific information is produced and adequately communicated Such information requires global measurements of atmospheric composition LEOMAC is designed to provide these measurements with the needed and previously unavailable combination of horizontal vertical and temporal resolution It also provides key measurements needed to improve the accuracy of weather and climate prediction models The LEOMAC measurements are chosen to fulfill recognized needs in the following applications areas  Air quality LEOMAC makes all the priority tropospheric measurements 03 CO NO2 CH2O SO2 aerosols identified by the February 2006 Community Workshop on Air Quality Remote Sensing from Space Defining an Optimum Observing Strategy and the NRC Decadal Study Panel on Human Health and Security It provides the global measurements that are essential for obtaining international agreements on air quality issues  UV exposure LEOMAC makes all the NRC Decadal Study Human Health and Security Panel's UV exposure and skin cancer priority chemical measurements 03 H20 HO2 NO2 ClO BrO HNO3 HCl H2CO HDO H2180 C02 CO NOY N20 CH4 and IO recently measured by SCIAMACHY as a goal except for OH for which HO2 is a good proxy and halogen source molecules for which HCl and BrO give adequate information LEOMAC's additional measurements of H202 NO HOCl CH3Cl and volcanic SO2 give additional information for tracking ozone layer stability  Climate change LEOMAC makes measurements for assessing climate change that have been identified as crucial by many studies including the NRC Decadal Study Panel on Climate Variability and Change Its measurements of pollutants aerosol optical depth and index cloud ice amount and particle size parameter cloud height and albedo water vapor and temperature all made simultaneously and with global coverage will enable progress in quantifying climate change associated with anthropogenic effects on clouds and aerosols It measures the convective deposition of pollutants that affect ozone in the upper troposphere where ozone's radiative forcing of climate is greatest It continues the long-term global aerosol data set from TOMS and OMI that is needed to provide crucial information on changes in aerosol that affect climate  Global circulation models used for climate and weather predictions LEOMAC s simultaneous measurements of water vapor and cloud ice amount with information on ice particle size made with resolution needed for progress in quantifying the effects of convection will improve parameterizations e.g of convection cloud formation and sedimentation in models used to predict weather and seasonal interannual and long-term climate variability 2 


LEOMAC-P's new temporal sampling will improve the performance of data assimilation systems and regional forecast models and should help improve worldwide extreme-event forecasting and hazard assessment LEOMAC s measurements are essential to meeting the NASA 2006 Strategic Plan goal 3A 1  Progress in understanding and improving predictive capability for changes in the ozone layer climate forcing and air quality associated with changes in atmospheric composition They also contribute significantly to goals 3A.2 and 3A.5  Progress in enabling improved predictive capability for weather and extreme weather events  Progress in understanding the role of oceans atmosphere and ice in the climate system and in improving predictive capability for its future evolution 3 TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES AND APPROACH The overall objectives of LEOMAC elaborated in section 4 of this document are to 1 Quantify how increasing emissions of pollutants affect air quality globally 2 Determine how the ozone layer and its chemistry are changing 3 Quantify how changing atmospheric composition is affecting climate and 4 Quantify the processes that control upper tropospheric water vapor and cloud ice Figure 1 shows the measurements required to meet these objectives and candidate instruments to provide them Producing these measurements with the needed combination of coverage accuracy precision and resolution requires a multi-spectral capability covering microwave thermal infrared short-wave-length infrared near-infrared visible and ultraviolet spectral regions LEOMAC costeffectively covers the required bands in these six spectral regions with a combination of three candidate instruments having the required sensitivity spectral resolution broad measurement swaths and spatial resolution The candidate instruments all of which have significant heritage from previous satellite instruments and/or have development programs underway are described below A Scanning Microwave Limb Sounder SMLS for measurements of H20 cloud ice and key chemical species in the upper troposphere and stratosphere SMLS an advanced version of MLS on Aura Waters et al 2006 measures thermal microwave limb emission in broad spectral bands centered at 240 and 640 GHz Major improvements from Aura MLS are a azimuth scanning simultaneous with vertical scanning to give 50x50 km horizontal sampling cross-track sampling 50x better than Aura MLS along-track 3x better over a broad 5000-km wide measurement swath to quantify convective depositions into the upper troposphere and long-range pollution transport b vertical resolution of 1.5-2 km 2x better than Aura MLS and c measurement of NO NO2 HDO and H218O SMLS measures more molecules than Aura MLS while having a simpler signal chain and fewer radiometers  A TROpospheric Pollution Imager TROPI for measurements of the key tropospheric pollutants 03 NO2 SO2 and CH2O and for measurements of aerosol/cloud properties e.g aerosol index and optical depth cloud height and albedo TROPI an advanced version of OMI on Aura Levelt et al 2006 and with long heritage from TOMS measures reflected/backscattered solar radiation at ultraviolet/visible 0.3 to 0.5 ptm and near-infrared 0.76 ptm wavelengths Major improvements over OMI are a 10x10 km horizontal resolution 2-4x better than OMI needed for resolving pollution sources and obtaining more cloud-free observations while achieving a broad measurement swath of 3000 km b addition of a near-infrared band for improved measurements of cloud and surface properties to greatly improve the accuracy of the tropospheric pollution measurements and c improved radiation hardness of the detectors  A Tropospheric Infrared Mapping Spectrometer TIMS for measurements of the key tropospheric pollutant CO the key greenhouse gases CO2 and CH4 and measurements of 03 and CO in the middle troposphere for long-range transport TIMS measures both reflected and backscattered short-wavelength infrared at 2.1 and 2.3 ptm and thermal infrared at 4.7 and 9.6 pm Its design with two compact pushbroom mapping grating spectrometers is being demonstrated through NASA's Instrument Incubator Program This design achieves the very high spectral resolution needed for tropospheric measurements of CO 03 CH4 H20 and CO2 k2JAk of 33,000 at 2.1 and 2.3 gim and 11,000 at 4.7 and 9.6 gim Each spectrometer uses multiple orders to obtain measurements in at least two channels TIMS has 3000-km wide measurement swath and 3 km or better horizontal resolution These three instruments work together in an extremely synergistic manner to provide the needed measurements For example their sensitivities to different height ranges in the troposphere enable vertical profiles of tropospheric 3 


pollution to be retrieved with unprecedented capability by combining the simultaneous measurements from SMLS TIMS and TROPI A cloud camera is added to the main instrument suite to enhance the science return of TIMS and TROPI The mission implementation would consist of a single satellite in low-Earth orbit Figure 2 shows the conceptual design for this observatory and lists its basic characteristics 4 JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS Justification and benefits are discussed in the following subsections for each of the LEOMAC objectives 4a Quantify how increasing emissions of pollutants affect air quality globally Near-surface emissions are mixed throughout the global troposphere by convection and large-scale winds Primary emissions generate secondary pollutants far from their sources causing the rapidly increasing industrialization in developing countries to affect air quality worldwide An especially important example for the United States is the effect of pollution from the newly industrializing Asian countries on American air quality Models indicate Stohl et al 2002 that for pollutants with 10-day lifetime which includes ozone and its precursors Asia makes the largest contribution to the column over North America as shown in Figure 3 The models indicate that after being emitted into the boundary layer the transport of Asian pollution to the United States is predominantly in the upper and middle troposphere and occurs through episodic events Liang et al 2004 The LEOMAC measurements will enable for the first time direct observational tracing of pollution around the globe to its emission sources such as the example of Asian pollution over America discussed above TROPI and TIMS provide the high spatial resolution required to identify the source emissions of 03 NO2 S02 CO and CH2O into the boundary layer For the measurement of boundary-layer 03 emissions which is more difficult because of the large amounts of 03 in the stratosphere the combination of TROPI TIMS and SMLS simultaneous measurements with their very different sensitivities to different altitude regions allow inference of lower tropospheric 03 Boundary layer values are inferred by their morphology and temporal variation TIMS provides the measurements needed for tracking the long-range transport of CO and 03 in the middle troposphere and SMLS for tracking the transport of these pollutants and possibly others in the upper troposphere The improvements of TROPI resolution over that of OMI on Aura and of SMLS over Aura MLS are illustrated in Figure 4 LEOMAC-P will provide improved temporal resolution that is needed on a global scale for quantifying the variations in pollution throughout the day It will for the first time provide global measurements of pollutants at multiple times per day Figure 5 shows an example of NO2 pollution over the southeastern U.S Here as in other polluted areas around the world largest abundances of NO2 occur early in the morning and late in the day and are thus missed by the A-Train and SCIAMACHY They will also be missed by planned operational missions and LEOMAC-S The LEOMAC-P measurements precess through all times of day over the course of 36 days All longitudes over a wide latitude range are measured each day over month-long periods that switch between northern and southern hemispheres Measurements at all longitudes are crucial for tracking the worldwide long-range transport of pollution which is predominantly west to east and for observationally tracing pollution back to its specific sources The orbit phase is chosen for summer air quality measurement priorities Measurement coverages are quantified in section 5 Benefits These measurements give crucial information for quantifying the global distribution of pollutants and their sources and for progress in determining how pollution may be changing the ability of the atmosphere to cleanse itself By giving a direct observational connection between the global distribution of pollution and the pollution emission sources they are essential for supporting the development of national and international policy to maintain and improve the quality of the air we breathe LEOMAC's measurements of tropospheric 03 CH4 CO N02 CH2O as a proxy for VOCs and SO2 provide information needed for improving assessment of how the atmosphere's oxidizing capacity may be changing 4b Determine how the ozone layer and its chemistry are changing Changes in halocarbons and climate are affecting the chemistry of the stratosphere and the upper troposphere particularly near the tropopause region LEOMAC provides the measurements needed to determine how stratospheric chemistry is changing and thus determine the stability of the ozone layer It measures both the dominant chlorine reservoir HCI and reactive radical CIO involved in stratospheric 03 depletion giving crucial information on whether chlorine partitioning is changing with changing climate e.g a cooler stratosphere predicted by climate change models would cause more chlorine to be in the 03-destroying CIO form and changing halocarbons Its simultaneous daily maps of lower stratospheric temperature HNO3 H20 CGO HC1 NO2 and possibly measurements of aerosol extinction by thick polar stratospheric clouds provide needed information for understanding/tracking climate-sensitive microphysical processes that can trigger increased 03 destruction 4 


Measurements of the long-lived tracers N20 CO and in many situations H20 03 HCl and HNO3 give information on dynamics and transport that could also be affected by a changing climate These measurements along with temperature and geopotential height diagnose tropopause structure and other dynamical effects that strongly influence column ozone Measurements of the chemical species can be made in the presence of volcanic aerosol that can substantially perturb stratospheric chemistry Measurements of volcanically-injected S02 provide information on the formation of aerosols that affect both chemistry and climate HC1 in the upper stratosphere is indicative of the total chlorine loading of the stratosphere and its measurement provides crucial information on whether international regulations to reduce stratospheric chlorine are having the desired effect LEOMAC continues the long-term global HC1 measurements from UARS and Aura The observed decrease in HC1 is consistent with the rate at which anthropogenic chlorine is expected to be cleansed from the stratosphere which will take more than 50 years We must continue tracking HC1 to ensure that chlorine is being cleansed from the stratosphere as expected BrO also measured by LEOMAC is both the dominant form of bromine in the stratosphere and the dominant form of bromine that destroys O3 e.g WMO 2006 There are still regulatory issues regarding certain bromine compounds and the BrO measurement provides information needed for policy decisions balancing economic and environmental concerns The LEOMAC measurements of H20 HO2 and H202 provide information to track destruction of ozone by hydrogen chemistry The measurements of N20 HNO3 NO2 and NO provide information to track destruction of ozone by nitrogen chemistry LEOMAC's high-resolution data will enable progress in stratospheric and upper tropospheric dynamics that was planned for Aura but lost due to a HIRDLS mishap at launch The improved temporal resolution will help quantify the extent to which fast convective processes might be transporting short-lived ozone-depleting substances into the stratosphere Benefits These measurements will provide data needed for assessing how changes in halocarbons and climate are affecting the stability of the ozone layer and for determining if international regulations are having the desired effect 4c Quantify how changing atmospheric composition is affecting climate Atmospheric pollutants can affect the formation and properties of aerosols and clouds that influence climate Short-lived pollutants can also affect the concentration of long-lived atmospheric constituents that have climate impact such as ozone water vapor ice clouds carbon dioxide and methane Determining the extent to which pollution and anthropogenic aerosols affect upper tropospheric cloudiness is crucial for improving the accuracy of climate change predictions Figure 6 shows Aura MLS observations of correlations in large values of upper tropospheric cloud ice and uplifted pollution Li Q et al 2005 Has anthropogenic pollution contributed to the observed enhancement in clouds This question is starting to be addressed with Aura data but much better resolution in the microwave measurements as can be provided by SMLS is required As also needed to improve climate models TROPI will distinguish between reflecting and absorbing aerosols and continue the long TOMS/OMI global aerosol dataset It is crucial that this record be continued with key related measurements in order to make progress in quantifying the effects of changing atmospheric composition on climate Quantifying the processes that affect upper tropospheric 03 is also crucial for reducing uncertainties in predictions of climate change The increase in tropospheric 03 since preindustrial times is estimated to give the third-largest increase in direct radiative forcing of climate and it is in the upper troposphere that the effect of 03 is largest LEOMAC provides needed information on the processes affecting upper tropospheric 03 that will reduce the existing uncertainties in climate forcing by upper tropospheric 03 An important question which applies to how atmospheric composition affects both upper tropospheric aerosols and ozone is the extent to which the upper troposphere is short-circuited to the boundary layer by convection This has serious implications for climate change long-range transport of pollution and ozone layer stability Figure 7 illustrates the typical spatial and temporal scales for convective deposition of boundary layer air into the upper troposphere Mullendore et al 2005 Figure 8 shows the diurnal variation of convection and how LEOMAC provides needed new sampling to quantify its effects LEOMAC's simultaneous measurements of cloud ice H20 H218O and HDO allow unique identification of air masses associated with convection Benefits These measurements will improve our ability to understand and predict the effects of changes in atmospheric composition on climate forcings and thus improve the accuracy of prediction models 4d Quantify the processes that control upper tropospheric water vapor and cloud ice Upper tropospheric H20 and cloud ice are poorly measured by the existing operational network Global data with better spatial and temporal resolution are needed for parameterizing convection and cloud formation processes to improve weather and climate prediction models 5 


Upper tropospheric H2O can either amplify or attenuate the climatic effects of increases in other greenhouse gases depending upon the process affecting it and the spatial and temporal scales of the process e.g Su et al 2006 Measurement of upper tropospheric H2O has historically been very difficult due both to its relatively small abundance and to the presence of ice clouds that degrade or prevent its measurement by many techniques Microwave limb sounding however is well-suited to this measurement because of its combination of good vertical resolution sensitivity and long wavelengths that can measure both gas phase abundances in the presence of ice clouds and the larger ice amounts that saturate or block shorter wavelength techniques Scattering is inversely proportional to the 4th power of wavelength small particles affect 1 mm wavelength microwaves 108 times less than 10 ptm infrared The dramatic improvement in coverage and resolution of SMLS on LEOMAC particularly on LEOMAC-P compared to previous MLS instruments and its additional measurements of H218O and HDO which yield key information on convection and condensation processes will provide crucial details of mechanisms affecting upper tropospheric H2O and its influence on climate variability One of the most significant shortcomings in current weather and climate models is the representation of clouds and their feedbacks on the global water and energy cycles This shortcoming includes both convective and non-convective clouds applies to both global circulation models GCMs and regional models and impacts both weather and climate predictions The accurate depiction of clouds and related hydrological processes in the upper troposphere is essential for predicting climate change It is in the upper troposphere that water vapor feedbacks are most acute and cloud feedbacks in this case from deep convective and high cirrus/ice clouds are undeniably significant Aura MLS has demonstrated simultaneous observations of cloud ice and water vapor which are important for understanding cloud formation These data have been used by the European Center for Medium Range Weather Forecasting ECMWF to justify changing ice supersaturation parameters in their Integrated Forecast System which has led to clear improvements in performance in particular the simulation of the location and intensity of tropical deep convection through indirect radiative feedbacks Li J et al 2005 SMLS on LEOMAC-P provides the improvement in resolution needed for additional progress to improve the accuracy of model predictions Figure 9 shows for example the diurnal variation of convection over the southeastern U.S in summer and measurement time examples for SMLS on LEOMAC-P Benefits These measurements will provide data needed to improve quantification of processes that control upper tropospheric water vapor and cloud ice and thus should improve the accuracy of global circulation models used for weather and climate predictions 5 TECHNOLOGY COMPARISONS AND READINESS 5a Comparisons to Other Techniques LEOMAC-P's main advantage over previous low-earthorbiting missions is its ability from a single satellite to deliver the improved temporal resolution and coverage of the diurnal cycle required to address critical outstanding questions in atmospheric composition and climate These needed improvements are made without the sacrifices of either global coverage or the good vertical resolution associated with limb sounding that need to be made in moving to a geostationary orbit GEO The multi-sensor approach of LEOMAC encompassing observations in the UV/Visible near and thermal infrared and microwave results in a comprehensive measurement suite offering unprecedented vertical resolution in the troposphere 5b Technology Readiness All of the LEOMAC instruments represent mature measurement techniques and technology SMLS and TROPI are advanced versions of highly successful instruments that have flown in previous NASA and other missions The TIMS instrument has been developed under the NASA Instrument Incubator Program All the critical technologies for SMLS are Technology Rediness Level TRL 5 or better For TROPI some development will be required to bring the planned CMOS detector technology to TRL 5/6 The TIMS instrument technology is currently TRL 3/4 further funding will be required to raise this to 516 A NASA missions study undertaken by Goddard Space Flight Center in collaboration with the instrument teams identified no significant risks or uncertainties associated with the spacecraft design Commercial technology in the form of Control Moment Gyros exists to perform the momentum compensation required to absorb the antenna the motion from the SMLS vertical scan Mass and power and data downlink requirements are comparable to those of many previous highly successful earth-science missions 6 MEASUREMENT COVERAGE AND RESOLUTION COMPARISONS Figures 10 and 11 compare coverage and resolution for LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC a geosynchronous satellite atmospheric composition mission also being studied As quantified in Figure 10 LEOMAC-P gives more frequent measurements at mid-latitudes where most of the population lives whereas LEOMAC-S gives measurements heavily weighted to polar regions where planned operational missions will provide a wealth of such 6 


observations Planned operational measurements will fill the gaps where the LEOMAC-P coverage switches monthly between northern and southern hemispheres Figure 11 is an overview of the overarching scientific issues that need to be addressed by future atmospheric composition missions the coverage and resolution needed to address these issues and the capabilities of LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC LEOMAC-P provides global measurements with better temporal resolution than LEOMAC-S and provides both the global coverage and vertical resolution not available from GEOMAC 7 CONCLUSIONS LEOMAC makes needed measurements of atmospheric composition humidity and clouds that are critical to our understanding of important issues in air quality climate and earth-system modeling The proposed mission and its four instruments offer an unprecedented combination of vertical horizontal and temporal resolution needed to addresss these questions without sacrifice of global coverage The technology to implement LEOMAC is at a high state of maturity Acknowledgements The research described in this publication or paper carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology was under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES NRC 2007 Earth Science and Applications from Space National Imperatives for the Next Decade and Beyond National Academy of Science Waters et al 2006 Waters J.W et al The Earth Observing System Microwave Limb Sounder EOS MLS on the Aura satellite IEEE Trans Geosci Remote Sensing 44 no 5 2006 Geophys Res 109:D23S07 doi 10.1029/2003JD004402 2004 WMO 2006 Scientific Assesment of Ozone Depletion 2006 World Meteorological Organization Global Ozone Research and Monitoring Project report No 50 2006 Li Q et al 2005 Li Q.B et al Convective outflow of South Asian pollution A global CTM simulation compared with EOS MLS observations Geophys Res Lett 32 L14826 doi:10.1029/2005GL022762 2005 Mullendore et al 2005 Mullendore et al Crosstropopause tracer transport in midlatitude convection J Geophys Res 110 D06113 doi 10.1029/2004JD005059 Li J et al 2005 Li J-L et a Comparisons of EOS MLS Cloud Ice Measurements with ECMWF analyses and GCM Simulations Initial Results Geophys Res Lett 32 L18710 doi:10.1029/2005GL023788 2005 BIOGRAPHY Nathaniel Livesey is an atmospheric scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and is currently the Principal Investigator for the Microwave Limb Sounder MLS instrument on the Earth Observing System Aura spacecraft launched in 2004 His research interests are centered on microwave space based observations of the chemistry hydrology and dynamics of Earth's atmosphere Most of his work has focused on the MLS experiments both on Aura and the earlier Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite UARS launched in 1991 Before becoming Aura MLS PI he was responsible for the MLS retrieval algorithms These convert the raw observations of the microwave signature of the atmosphere into measurements of atmospheric composition temperature humidity and cloud ice van den Oord et al 2006 van den Oord et al The Ozone Monitoring Instrument IEEE Trans Geosci Remote Sensing 44 no 5 2006 Stohl et al 2002 A Stohl et al On the pathways and timescales of intercontinental air pollution transport J Geophys Res 107\(D23 doi 10.1029/2001 JD001396 Liang et al 2004 Q Liang L Jaegl e D A Jaffe P Weiss-Penzias A Heckman and J A Snow Long-range transport of asian pollution to the northeast Pacifc Seasonal variations and transport pathways of carbon monoxide J 7 


a Tropospheric Infrared Mapping Spectrometer SMLS 4m Velocity Figure 2 LEOMAC conceptual design and characteristics 9 Performance Data Includes Margins g Mass kg 1026 Payload 2284 Observatory Wet Total g Power Avg W 858 Payload 1360 Observatory Total g Data Rate Mbps 14.4 Payload Obit Avg 300 Downlink g Pointing 3cr asec 360 Control 60 Real-Time Knowledge g Lifetime years 2.5 Design 5.0 Goal  Consumables S/C Bus TIMS  TROPI Nadir y Mission Features g Orbit Circular 520 inclination 824 km altitude n Launch Vehicle Atlas V 401 or Delta IV 4040-12 V Ground Stations Polar Svalbard Alaska McMurdo V Science Data Down-linked Per Day 1.43 T bits Figure 1 LEOMAC measurements indicating candidate instruments to provide them SMLS is tzm UK a 92 a a MM I A 8  0 mm gm ro mm f on F-EW-01 I NFIFUMMA a a Scanning Microwave Limb Sounder TROPI is a Tropospheric Pollution Imager TIMS is 


over that of MLS as would be mapped by Aura MLS and by SMLS Among many features evident from SMLS but not from Aura MLS is the thin filament arrow connecting enhanced CO sources to the column of pollution over N America over that of OMI age time since emitted of the tracer CO Sources of pollution from other regions to the N American column to North America from N America from Asia E from Europe 2 days 5 days 10 days 20 days*h g Figure 3 Relative contributions from domestic Asian and European some urban areas e.g B for Brussels in this region of Belgium Holland and Germany Right two panels the improvement in SMLS resolution sources of pollution emission Letters indicate over America to pollution from Asia 100 75 50 25 0 on Aura The improved TROPI resolution allows better identification of the on Aura This example is of are negligible Stohl et al J Geophys Res vol 107 No D23 4684 2002 Figure 4 Left two panels the improvement in TROPI resolution as a function of the a high-resolution model field of upper tropospheric CO 


0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 x106 1cm2 1lowr trop 1000-700 hPa NO2 co]umn noise level for TROP I is O.1 101 cm2 Figure 5 Daily variation of NO2 pollution over the southeastern U.S on 17 August 2000 Each panel is a map of the lower tropospheric 1000-700 hPa column NO2 abundance at different Atlanta local times throughout the day EPA CMAQ regional model results from Yongtao Hu of Georgia Tech Current and planned satellite instruments that measure NO2 make measurements near mid-day and miss the larger values that occur both earlier and later TROPI on LEOMAC-P will provide the first global measurements of NO2 and other pollutants at multiple times per day and will thus provide needed new information on quantifying the overall magnitude of global pollution events Blue outward-pointing arrows indicate LEOMAC-P TROPI measurement time examples for 17 August and a particular choice of orbit parameters The corresponding solar zenith angles sza are also indicated The TROPI NO2 column measurement noise is _0.Ix0'16 cm-2 CO pollution large crystal ice small crystal ice Figure 6 Upper tropospheric CO pollution and cloud ice averages for 25 Aug through 6 Sep 2004 from Aura LEOMAC will provide such measurements with better resolution multiple times per day and provide additional key measurements such as CO in the lower and middle troposphere 11 


15 E Nat 1X 1 Figure 7 Deposition of boundary layer air into the upper troposphere Model predictions from Figure 5 of Mullendore et al J Geophys Res vol 110 D06113 2005 with crosses added to show the SMLS resolution Color indicates the abundance of a boundary layer tracer at 2 and 10 hours into a convective simulation XE 20.0 LE A G6-P_ _ W 150r CWEvery 36 days Nn N Sl N N NA.TM hea oi or eGboP LOMC Local time rour Figure 8 Diurnal variation of convection where the green curve is for convection over land and the blue is over ocean For 208 K infrared temperature thresholds from Figure 4 of Chen and Houze Q J Roy Met Soc vol 123 pp 357-388 1997 with the temporal samplings of the A-train A and of SMLS on LEOMAC-P P and LEOMAC-S S added Figure 9 Diurnal variation of convection over the southeastern U.S in summer and temporal coverage example for SMLS on LEOMAC-P Each panel shows the Jun-Jul-Aug 1999 average occurrence of strong convection to at least 10 km height at different local times throughout the day from Baijun Tian of JPL and based on GOES 11 m brightness temperatures less than 230 K Red colors for 6 hours per day typical of this region corresponds to 5 inches of rain over Jun-Jul-Aug Dark blue colors indicate essentially no convection Blue outward-pointing arrows indicate LEOMAC-P SMLS measurement time examples for for 17 August and a particular choice of orbit parameters The A-train makes measurements at 1:30 am and 1:30 Dm and misses the evolution and intense convection in late afternoon 12 


DAily SMLS TIROPI TMMS solar 90 243 60 A IIt I  I 1111X   L _~17A Hi FMAMJ ASOND 0.3 1.0 1.5 20 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 0 80 9.0 Nunber of observatio  24h Figure 10 Number of observations per each 24 hour period for LEOMAC-P top row and LEOMAC-S bottom row Everywhere in a given color is measured that number of times with lOxIO km horizontal resolution for TROPI TIMS and 50x50 km for SMLS The left three columns show an example for Aug 17 The rightmost column shows the annual variation for the TROPI and TIMS solar measurements where the vertical line is 17 August The number of measurements per 24 hour period for SMLS and TIMS/thermal has only a minor variation throughout the year 1000 km i 100 km 10 km GUobal I Global j Figure 11 Overarching scientific issues that need to be addressed by future atmospheric composition missions and LEOMAC-P LEOMAC-S and GEOMAC horizontal vertical and temporal coverage and resolution For the various measurement objectives L indicates that observations are needed in the lower troposphere U that they are needed in the upper troposphere and S that they are needed in the stratosphere The right end of each horizontal arrow is the required horizontal resolution and the left end is the required coverage The upper end of each vertical arrow is the desired temporal resolution and the lower end is the required resolution 13 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


