  1 The Role of Reliability Data Bases in Deploying CBM+, RCM and PHM with TLCSM Richard C. Millar NAVAIR Propulsion & Power, AIR 4.4.2.2 48246 Shaw Road Patuxent River MD 20670 301-757-0517 richard.millar@navy.mil  Abstract The total life cycle systems management  p e rativ e fo r m ilitary system s h o l d s  th e program manager accountable for “total system performance \(hardware, software, and human\ional effectiveness, and suitability, survivability, safety, and affordability”.    Condition Based Maintenance Plus  ility Cen t ered Main ten a n ce RCM an d  prognostic health manageme subsystems, such as propulsion, are considered essential program elements in meeting th 
is responsibility for total life cycle sustainability 1  A key enabler for CBM+, RCM and PHM is adequate and  ary source of the information needed to design and develop cost effective system provisions for initial deployment of new or upgraded propulsion systems.  In addition, cost effective sustainment of military propulsion systems implies continued maintenance and enhancement of RDB to address the inevitable emerging reliability issues that were neither anticipated nor detected during propulsion system design and development The expectations of TLCSM and the resultant deployment of CBM+, RCM and PHM will place increasing demands on RDB in terms of data coll 
ected, archived and processed to provide actionable information for maintainers, engineers and leaders responsible for maintenance process and configuration management and mission planners and operational leadership The scope of RDB coverage will expand to include records of individual propulsion system usage and other variables affecting propulsion system re liability.  Integration with associated cost and logistics data bases will facilitate CBM RCM application.  Advanced analysis tools will support proactive oversight of deviations from expected reliability using machine intelligence to alleviate information overload on RDB users.  RDB will evolve based on, and supporting advanced models of propulsion system reliability that are 
automatically updated in response to field data and provide timely and dependable forecas ts of propulsion system reliability, maintenance effort and logistical requirements 2   1  1   U.S. Government work not protected by U.S. copyright 2 IEEEAC paper #1587, Version 5, Updated January 28, 2008 T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION  1  2  T OTAL 
L IFE C YCLE S YSTEMS M ANAGEMENT  2  3  C ONDITION B ASED M AINTENANCE P LUS  3  4  R ELIABILITY C ENTERED M AINTENANCE  5  5  P ROGNOSTIC H EALTH M ANAGEMENT PHM 6  5 
 S UMMARY   C ONCLUSIONS  7  R EFERENCES   8  B IOGRAPHY  8  1  I NTRODUCTION  The DoD Defense Acquisition Sy stem states policy as: “4.2. The prim ary objective of Defense acquisition is to acquire quality products that satisfy user needs with measurable improvements to mission capability and operational support, in a timely manner, and at a fair and reasonable price 
The US Department of Defense Acquisition Guid  states in Section 4.1.3 Total Life Cycle Systems Management \(TLCSM\n Systems Engineering:  “It is fundamental to systems engineering to take a total life cycle, total systems appro ach to system planning development, and implementati on. Total life cycle systems management \(TLCSM\s the planning for and management of the entire acquisition life cycle of a DoD system.  Related to the total systems approach, DoD Directive 5000.1, E1.29 makes the program manager accountable for TLCSM”. \(See Table 1 The Defense Acquisition Guide book continues: “Because of TLCSM, the program manager should consider nearly all systems development decisions in 
context of the effect that decision will have on the long term operational effectiveness and logistics affordability of the system This paper addresses the role of reliability data bases \(RDB in the deployment of TLCSM through the implementation of Condition Based Maintenance Plus \(CBM+\Reliability Centered Maintenance \(RCM\ic health management \(PHM NAVAIR Public Release 07-683  Distribution Statement Approved for public release; distribution is unlimited 


  2 Table 1 Total Life Cycle Systems Management Underlining added for emphasis The program manager shall be the single point of accountability for accomplishing program objectives for total Lifecycle systems manage ment, including sustainment  The program manager shall apply human systems integration to optimize total system performance \(hardware software, and human operational effectiveness, and suitability, survivability, safety and affordability. PMs shall consider supportability, life cycle costs performance, and schedule comparable in making program decisions Planning for Operation and Support and the estimation of total ownership costs shall begin as early as possible Supportability, a key component of performance, shall be considered throughout the system life cycle   Reliability data bases are comm only maintained in industry and the military where complex, critical equipment is subject to sustained operation and repeated maintenance RDB typically record all significant maintenance activity with emphasis on equipment failures.  See Cooke Be for a m o re det a i l e d descri pt i on RDB for military systems may encompass many hundred nominally identical systems \(i.e pieces of equipment a service lives measured in decad  for an example.  In addition to calendar based records of maintenance actions \(including both scheduled preventive maintenance and unscheduled tasks in response to fault indications and failures\ay encompass measures of cumulative usage \(e.g., operational cycles and duration\guration logs for individual systems Ideally the RDB will also retain, or enable retrieval of salient findings from servicing, preventive maintenance repairs and shop visits, includi ng parts replacements.  Thus the RDB provides the data necessary to measure and understand the systems’ reliability over time and as a function of usage and configuration.  This information may be used to track the reliab ility of system components and assess impacts on system availability.  RDB can also provide information on the effectiveness of maintenance actions and inform continuous improvement of maintenance practices 2  T OTAL L IFE C YCLE S YSTEMS M ANAGEMENT  The Defense Acquisition Guid Sect i on 5.1.1 Total Life Cycle Systems Management, defines TLCSM as the "implementation, management, and oversight, by the designated Program Manager, of all activities associated with the acquisition, development, production, fielding sustainment, and disposal of a DoD weapon or materiel system across its life cycle with reference to DoD Directiv   TLCSM is stated to include, among other imperatives and as a major initiative, the need to consider product support and life cycle logistics in DoD acquisition strategies with enhanced sustainment as a key performance criteria Achieving this goal is expected to yield increased reliability and a reduced logistics footprint with performance-based logistics \(PBL A 2002 article in Program Manager Magazine by Louis A Kratz, Randy T. Fowler and Je rry D emphasis on TLCSM to the 2001 Quadrennial Defense Review's \(QDR\focus on transformation of US defense to a capability-based" strategy to repel 21 st Century threats Affordably projecting and sustaining military power anywhere necessary is stated to be one of the top DoD transformation goals and that this requires "dramatic improvements in our sustainment capability to achieve rapidly deployable and employable forces with significant reductions in logistics footprint This publication anticipates revisions to   t o m a ndat e t h e perform ance based logistics as the preferred strategy for sustainment implemented through public-private partnerships employing health monitoring and prognostics to manage defense assets The F/A-18 E/F program is cited as a pioneer in anticipating this mandate, as the first naval aviation platform deployed under a PBL strategy This reference also notes that the subsequent formation of the DoD Joint Logistics Board and its Future Logistics Enterprise led to the determination that Total Life Cycle Systems Management was one of the six initiatives necessary to achieve the sustainment capabilities identified by the 2001 QDR.  These initiatives also include Condition Based Maintenance Plus  \(CBM+\further described below and Enterprise Integration to ensure the "real-time actionable data required to deploy and sustain combat power rapidly with minimal footprint   The synergy of these initiatives in exemplified by the importance given to CBM+ and Enterprise Integration as enablers for TLCSM in providing the necessary information systems, asset state awareness and analysis tools to effectively optimize fleet sustainment activities.  This integration is essential to timely reliability data collection analysis and dissemination as actionable information and guidance to DoD planners, war fighters, maintainers logisticians, program managers and systems engineers.  In this context, Louis A. Kratz, Randy T. Fowler and Jerry D Coth envi sage i n t e grat ed funct i onal  publ i c  and private enterprise, partnerships to provide a support infrastructure informed by r eal-time situational awareness based on outcomes monitored automatically by embedded instrumentation and prognostics In 2005, Kenneth J. Kreig, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics issued a 


  3 memorandum to the secretaries of the military departments 5 at d e tailed th e calcu latio n o f To tal Life Cycle System s Management \(TLCSM\etrics.  These define the measures of Operational Availability, Mission Reliability, Cost per Unit of Usage, Logistics Footprint, and Logistics Response Time Review of the definition of these metrics reveals that the first two, Operational Availability and Mission Reliability are derived from data typica lly found in reliability data bases \(RDB\ned TLCSM and variable Cost per Unit of Usage metrics are based on aggregated cost data not usually incorporated in reliability databases, but as discussed below, a subset of the cost data is also relevant and necessary for thorough relia bility centered maintenance RCM\ analysis The two logistics related metrics, Logistics Footprint, and Logistics Response Time, are derived from data not usually considered part of a reliability data base, and might be considered irrelevant to our in terest here.  However, efforts to manage these metrics can be expected to result in increased interest in reliability and maintenance data that would be most readily available from RDB, and possibly changes in the data collected and the analysis of this and other salient data.  Furthermore, the capabilities of the logistics processes employed, and any enhancements, may affect the selection of op timal maintenance processes through RCM and thus the needs for, and usage of, RDB As the DoD moves to an integrated, cross-functional TLCSM process it seems likely that reliability, cost and logistics data will migrate to a common data base to facilitate fully informed and optimal decision making by all parties involved – an issue particularly sensitive in public/private partnerships, notably those governed by PBL In this context the dependa bility, accuracy and timeliness of RDB contents may be criti cal to the effectiveness and viability of PBL arrangements In particular, rather detailed and specific measures of the usage of individual assets and their subsystems and components are likely to be required – data that is central to effective prognostics, and thus RCM and CBM+.  RDB are the most likely hosts for such usage data, information that enables precise component lif ing, meaningful reliability assessments and mission based availability projections The objective of this paper is to examine the roles of reliability data bases in this emerging TLCSM acquisition and operational environment and the requirements and capabilities necessary to support these roles.  The above outline supports the thesis that comprehensive, accurate and timely RDB will increasingly perform a critical supportive and enabling role in the deployment of TLCSM.  The rest of this paper examines this thesis in the context of Condition Based Maintenance Plus d  Reliab ility Cen t ered  Maintenance [RCM   i n cl udi ng t h e appl i cat i on of Prognostic Health Management [PHM  3  C ONDITION B ASED M AINTENANCE P LUS  A draft DoD Instructi  C ondi t i on B a sed M a i n t e nance Plus \(CBM  r Materiel Management, identifies CBM+ as the primary reliability driver in the Total Lice Cycle Systems Management \(TLCSM supportability strategy of the Department of Defense” in concert with Continuous Process Improvement and Performance Driven Outcomes achieved via Performance Based Logistics The Defense Acquisition Guidebook   Sect i on 5.2.1.2  Condition Based Maintenance Plus \(CBM+\provides this definition of CBM+: "a set of maintenance processes and capabilities derived, in large part, from real-time assessment of weapon system conditi on, obtained from embedded sensors and/or external tests and measurements. The goal of CBM+ is to perform as much maintenance as possible at pre-determined trigger even ts. A trigger event can be physical evidence of an impending failure provided either by inspection or diagnostic technology, or could be operating hours completed, elapsed calendar days or other periodically occurring situation \(i.e., classical scheduled maintenance This reference notes that “embedded diagnostics and prognostics to signal the need for maintenance”, preventive maintenance to preempt unscheduled maintenance, and “use of maintenance data analysis that correlates external variables with the requirement to accomplish a maintenance action” are CBM+ “tenets”.  It is notable that adequate RDB incorporating relevant usage data are necessary to all of these capabilities Figure 1 provides an integrated view of CBM+ from a DoD acquisition web site which emphasizes the integration of Condition Based Maintenance and Reliability Centered Maintenance, noting the relevance of integrated data databases and decision support tools.  However, this and other references offer no specifi c details on the role of RDB and RDB analysis tools in implementing CBM 


  4   Figure 1 CBM+  Scope and Toolset http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/mrmp CBM+.htm, September 2007   An Air Force fact sheet for 21 st Century Expeditionary Logistics, titled Conditioned-Based \(sic CBM  expands on t h e above t o i d ent i f y  t h e need t o  implement specific enabling technologies and concepts  1  Prognostics 2  Diagnostics 3  Automatic Identification Technology 4  Integrated Information Systems 5  Joint Total Asset Visibility 6  Data Analysis 7  Reliability Centered Maintenance 8  Portable Maintenance Aids 9  Interactive Electronic Technical Manuals 10  Interactive Training These have been reordered here to show these elements span the spectrum from tools providing new data that will have to be integrated into RDB \(1 & 2\, or facilitating data collection \(3 & 4\rect uses of RDB data \(5, 6 & 7 items that are likely to be affected by the availability of RDB information \(8, 9 &10\.  Automatic Identification  plies visibility of weapon system configuration, a key data set for analyzing and projecting weapon system re liability and availability Considering the above, what are the specific contributions RDB can make to CBM+?  On one hand, the described functionality might be impl emented via an autonomous system embedded in the weapon system, possibly with the acquisition of some external tests and measurements, or alternatively incorporating off board maintenance aids However, such architectures with fully dispersed RDB resident in each weapon system - seem unlikely to be the most cost effective Furthermore, the need for "Joint Total Asset Visibility" is evident to approach optim al maintenance and asset management.  Understanding the capability, scheduled maintenance requirements and e xpected availability of each asset is essential to effective and efficient integrated operations and logistics Thus one function for RDB possibly partially distributed but with essential centralized elements, is to enable the acquisition and analysis of aggregated data from individual weapon systems So far this view makes one audacious and unrealistic assumption – that the deployed CBM+ process is fully adequate and satisfactory for the life of the weapon system However, such foresight is hardly to be expected.  Well after OPEVAL we expect to learn much from service experience to refine, mature and enhance equipment maintenance processes and system configuration.  In 


  5 practice, CBM+ depends on dynamic CPI and CIP to approach tolerable system safety, availability and affordability Thus, another role for RDB is the collection & preservation of the data needed to continuously validate and correct expected system and component failure modes and reliability.  The other side of this coin is the need to monitor the effectiveness of the CBM maintenance processes and CBM and PHM sensors, models and analysis tools including the reliability of CBM+ infrastructure and execution Another technology emerging from the implementation of CBM+ and prognostics is particularly relevant to the topic of RDB: more sophisticated measures of sub-system and component usage to supplement the conventional focus on flight cycles and operating hours.  These arise naturally from reliability centered maintenance \(RCM\with its bottom-up approach to preventive maintenance, as subsystem and component failure rates are usually modeled by multi-variate life usage indicators \(LUI Such advanced usage based component lifing may be more expedient and cost effective than diagnostics and prognostics based on embedded sensors and it is enabled by the growing availability of high fidelity models of system behavior and component lives However, the concomitant increase in the volume and comple xity of the data that must be collected, analyzed and possibly archived will have great impact on the size and complex ity of RDB.  And, again RDB will need to support validation and continuous improvement the underlying models of component failure modes and reliability It is clear that expanded RDB data collection and analytical capability is an essential enabler for the deployment of CBM+ within the DoD and a crucial element guiding the enhancement of CBM+ via Continuous Process Improvement \(CPI\ This insight applies not only to future platforms such as F-35, the Joint Strike Fighter, but implies the need to improve the coverage and utilization of RDB for legacy platforms.  The latter will not only improve the maintainability and availability of current aviation assets the lessons learned and tools developed will be crucial to the rapid maturity of CBM+ applied to future systems through operational evaluation \(OPEVAL\ry into service \(EIS Thus the third aspect of RDB usage is the generation and improvement of more generic models of component and system reliability for TLCSM based requirements definition and development of future systems.  In summary RDB should be specified and designed to support three aspects of TLCSM system acquisition and deployment effective and satisfactory CBM+  deployment, the capability to responsively and proactively mature and update the CBM+ process and the weapon system configuration as necessary to achieve TLCSM objectives, and the accumulation of a knowledge base to enhance future TLCSM based acquisitions 4  R ELIABILITY C ENTERED M AINTENANCE  Again referring to a variety of DoD documentation, the following describes the expectations for this element of CBM+.  “At its core, CBM+ is maintenance performed on evidence of need provided by Reliability Centered Maintenance \(RCM\ysis and other enabling processes and technologi   RCM is a logical, structured process used to determine the optimal failure management strategies for any system, based on system reliability characteristics and the intended operating context. RCM defines what must be done to a system to achieve the desired levels of safety, reliability environmental soundness, and operational readiness, at best cost.  RCM is to be applied continuously throughout the life cycle of any system As one of the key enablers of CBM+ and the life cycle sustainment of DoD weapons systems, RCM is conducted to ensure that effective maintenance processes are implemented. RCM provides a logical decision process for determining optimum maintenance approaches and establishes the evidence of need for both reactive and proactive maintenance tasks.” [9 Figure 2, found in a Naval Air Systems Command Management Manual defining guidelines for RCM and many other sources, illustrates the process of RCM definition, implementation and update.  This reference makes evident the essential role of RDB in RCM implementation, providing the information needed to plan and schedule on-condition, hard time 3 failure finding and age exploration tasks, and generate the metrics for RCM program monitoring and evaluation Figure 2 also includes feedback of "in-service data and operator/maintainer input" for two purposes - RCM task evaluation and FMECA analysis – both activities where RDB are essential to collect and retain the necessary information 5  3 Which can be interpreted to include all usage based PM tasks, whether based on flight cycles, operating hour s or more complex component life usage metrics 


  6  Figure 2 RCM Process Map Extracted from   A recent instruction issued by the Commander, Naval Air Systems Command, emphasizes that RCM is a "continuing integrated activity...for maki ng affordable management decisions" as a TLCSM process, and that as such RCM influences design and devel opment requirements, defines the preventive maintenance PM  program for test evaluation and sustainment, updates PM for initial deliveries and subsequent ma jor modifications, and guides maintenance and design improvements throughout production, deployment, operations and sustainment Crucially, RCM is "based on the reliability of the various components, the efficacy of maintenance actions, the severity of the consequences related to safety and mission if failure occurs, and the cost e ffectiveness of the task Again, RDB are the medium for acquisition, retention and dissemination of the information needed for all of these RCM activities and functions.  Thus, the RDB supporting RCM should encompass comprehensive records of equipment and component usage, faults indications and failures \(including safety operational consequences scheduled and unscheduled maintenance actions and their costs and outcomes, and salient operator and maintainer observations 5  P ROGNOSTIC H EALTH M ANAGEMENT PHM Prognostic health management depends on effective measures to detect degradation and impending failure well in advance of any loss of mission capability.  Coupled to dependable tools to model remaining useful life, an essential PHM element, this allows delay of what would otherwise be unscheduled maintenance activity to a scheduled preventive maintenance event, or another convenient time with the least impact on equipment availability and maintenance workload Prognostic health management \(PHM\s a key complement to CBM+ and RCM Condition based maintenance is designed to eliminate unnecessary maintenance, but it also introduces an undesirable element of vari ability into maintenance planning and execution compared to well rationalized hard time maintenance policies.  The unscheduled maintenance needed to correct an impe nding failure detected during inspection or automated fault detection leads to redundant 


  7 maintenance downtime and in creased cost.  As the principles of Six Sigma teach us, variability is the enemy of quality - in this case predictable availability and mission effectiveness.  An effective PHM capability mitigates this uncertainty and recovers the full CBM benefits RCM and PHM have evident synergies.  Both require indepth knowledge of failure modes and effects, with detail understanding of failure probab ility as a function of usage and state – at the individual component level.  PHM adds a valuable option to the menu of available RCM tasks by mitigating the impact of failures on "safety, environment operations and economics" \(Figure 2 Reliability data bases are a critical enabler of PHM.  They are necessary to validate PHM fault-to-failure models and inform ongoing improvement to PHM provisions, which can then be leveraged via RCM to achieve CBM objectives with reduced cost a nd maintenance effort.  This role requires enhanced RDB capabilities and scale to collect and retain the component level reliability information at a granularity in terms of usage and configuration often lacking in current data bases.  PHM also requires tracking and capturing the root cause of on-condition equipment maintenance down through successive levels of maintenance to the component replacement level Greater automation of RDB anal ysis is the key to costeffective RDM support for PHM.  The operational acceptability of PHM depends on low error rates particularly false negatives, which otherwise soon erode PHM's advantages.  Reactiv e and workload intensive engineering investigation is unable to sustain the rapid and early identification and mitigation of emergent and unexpected failure modes \(a fact of life in equipment with operating lives measured in d ecades\aintain PHM dependability 5  S UMMARY   C ONCLUSIONS  NAVAIR Instructi i ssued i n  1989 addresses the need to collect and apply maintenance data generated in flight for "rapid feedback of maintenance and diagnostic data to organizational \(O\ntermediate \(I\and Depot \(D\evel maintenance personnel in the performance of maintenance tasks" and "higher level command reporting requirements" and this imperative clearly extends to data generated during the maintenance process, at all levels Implementation of TLCSM via CBM+ and RCM, enabled by advanced diagnostics and PHM, requires extension of the scope of RDB definition to encompass relevant system and component usage \(including environmental exposure records of operational impacts, and maintenance cost data The primary purpose is informed implementation of CBM and RCM to achieve TLCSM requirements The concept of RDB as the e ssential feedback channel to enable continuous improvement of system maintenance processes and tools, including CBM+ & RCM, for DoD systems is inadequately captured in the references cited and the many others consulted Comprehensive RDB must capture endogenous and exogenous drivers of system and maintenance process performance metrics.  This data, properly analyzed, does more than enable CBM+, it is the foundation for CBM maturation and continuous improvement, improvements to other maintenance processes, component improvement programs   and is necessary to inform TLCSM  throughout the acquisition process Comprehensive and dependable RDB with integrated usage and cost data are a critical element for cost effective performance based logistics \(PBL\ only to enable PBL terms with acceptable risk levels but also to guide the ongoing and effective continuous process improvement CPI\ponent improvement programs \(CIP\hat are fundamental to achieving the expected gains in safety availability and affordability Finally, RDB accumulated through rigorous CBM+ and RCM implementation will provide the basis to define and implement better informed acquisition of new weapon systems to achieve yet higher levels of TLCSM more cost effectively and earlier in the life cycle In sum, the synergy between CBM and RCM that yields CBM+ and sustains deployment of TLCSM is founded on reliability data bases and its full expression is dependent on RDB with enhanced scope and automated analytical capabilities.  RDB are essential to the effective integration of all elements of CBM+  and must be given full consideration in the deployment of TLCSM.  The architecture of CBM+ infrastructure must account for the role of RDB, including their essential role in providing the feedback to guide continuous process improvement and component improvement programs 


  8 R EFERENCES   T he Defense Acqui si t i on Sy st em, Department of Defense Directive Number 5000.1, May 12, 2003   Defense Acqui si t i on Gui d ebook, 12 20 2004 http://akss.dau.mil/dag/DoD 5000.asp?view=document  Achi evi ng Defense Transform a t i on Through Tot a l  Li fe Cycle Systems Management,  Defense Acquisition University PM magazine accessed October 2007 at http://www.dau.mil/pubs/pm/pm_articles02.asp   DOD Inst ruct i on 5000.2, Operat i on of t h e Defense Acquisition System, Ma y12, 2003, accessed at https://akss.dau.mil/dag/DoD5000.asp?view=document&do c=2  U.S. Depart m e nt of Defense, The Under Secret ary  of Defense for Acquisition Technology and Logistics Kenneth J. Kreig\al Li fe Cycle Systems Management TLCSM\Metrics”, Memorandum for Secretaries of the Military Department s, 22 November, 2005  Anon eLog 21 Fact Sheet - Conditioned-Based Maintenance Plus \(CBM https://acc.dau.mil/Commun ityBrowser.aspx?id=32779&lan g=en-US  U.S. Depart m e nt of Defense, The Under Secret ary  of Defense for Acquisition Technology and Logistics Kenneth J. Kreig\Instruction Number 4151.ee \(draft Condition Based Maintenance Plus \(CBM  ateriel Management 8 in ess & Main ten a n ce Po licy Co n d itio n  Based Maintenance Plus http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/mrmp CBM%2B.htm, attributed to Office of the Under Secretary of Defense \(Logistics and Materiel Readiness 9 Materiel Read in ess & Main ten a n ce Po licy, Reliab ility Centered Maintenance http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/mrmp RCM.htm, attributed to Office of the Under Secretary of Defense \(Logistics and Materiel Readiness  NAVAIR 00-25-403 Gui d el i n es for t h e Naval  Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process, 01 July 2005   U.S. Navy C o m m a nder, Naval Ai r Sy st em s C o m m a nd D.J. Venelet\Inst ruction 4790.20B, Reliability Centered Maintenance Program", 20 July 2007  U.S. Navy C o m m a nder, Naval Ai r Sy st em s C o m m a nd R.D. Friichtenicht\ruction 4790.21, Flight Information Recording and Monitoring Systems. 4 October 1989  R M. Cooke and T Bedford, “Reliability Databases in Perspective IEEE Transactions on Reliability Volume 51, Issue 3, September 2002, 294 310 14] Richard C. Millar, Thomas A. Mazzuchi, and Shahram Sarkani,  “Applicat ion of Non-Parametric Statistical Methods to Reli ability Database Analysis SAE AeroTech paper 2007-01-3861, September 2007    B IOGRAPHY  Richard Millar is employed at NAVAIR as an Aerospace Engineer responsible for Science and Technology programs in Propulsion and Power controls and diagnostics. He has over 35 years experience in the design and development of gas turbine engines and their application to aircraft propulsion & power systems.  He had worked in this field at General Electric, United Technologies, Roll-Royce, Boeing Lockheed Martin and BAE Systems prior to joining NAVAIR in 2003 Dr. Millar holds a Bachelors and Masters in Engineering Carleton\Sc in Management \(MIT\is a graduate of the D.Sc. program in Systems Engineering at The George Washington University 


1mntw d my m the full set of associations we would require up front As a development goal we hoped to minimize the number of model changes up front While we would miss a few key relationships that needed to be added with continued revisions of the model for the most part we over-designed with many more associations than we would really require Figure 6 below depicts the primary relationships that IIS software did take advantage of Figure 6 IIS Scenario Relationship Model Space missions such as MER already incorporate activity into operations however they do not current utilize explicit information models to associate activities with uplink and downlink products IIS Software Development IIS development included graphical user interfaces GUIs for control and visualization Control GUIs acted as ground system and space asset simulations producing uplink directives data measurements health and status and downlink reports as required IIS developed a separate visualization interface to display asset and activity state in real-time All of these components communicated through the same communications interface and information model elements IIS used the space link simulation communications software integrated under ICNI to stand in as space links A set of link objects was generated at the start of the scenario to represent all future communications opportunities Building the primary scenario required a certain amount of infrastructure code to be developed particularly for the management of applications The final scenario used a total of eight running applications these included six asset simulators four NetLanders an Orbiter and an Earth Station a visualization display and a link opportunity generator All of these applications except for the visualization display communicated over the ICNI/SharedNet communications middleware the visualization display was connected to each simulator via sockets to provide real time updates of simulator behavior Despite the large number of interacting applications end-toend integration time was not a significant part of the development cycle Indeed the second failover scenario was developed and integrated in a remarkably short time using the same information model definitions from conception to demonstration the failover scenario was implemented in approximately three days For our first integration attempt we ran the end-to-end system with full connectivity that is we allowed each asset to communicate with any other asset without restriction over the middleware layer We were able to demonstrate the complete science activity i.e from initial directive to final report as well as the failover scenario without significant problems However once we introduced distinct communications windows i.e one link at a time we ran into communications layer delays as the middleware attempted to resolve associations over disconnected links In some cases it would take several orbits to correct if the resolution attempt did not expire first With the large and complex information model it was non-trivial to disconnect unneeded associations that were creating the problem We identified this as an overall problem of coherency breakdown see Figure 8 The system failed to maintain the consistency of information relationships across the network Effectively we would have to tell the system not to resolve relationships over long links until data arrived Note that these coherency problems result primarily from long interstellar latencies Relatively short latencies such as those from a distributed lunar network should not have as great an impact In any case it is an area deserving of further study Figure 8 Breakdown of Information Coherency 9 Coherency of Obect Based Cornmunicahions   I_ _ 1 o  N..a a.BN  IIEIE  _ _ 1 F Of i i s js Apkc_ m _ v _ o__f I u 1be e e   _1 4 _n   


an object-based communications approach with persistent distributed objects is the problem of distributed information coherency Note that these impacts users It is also designed to support message routing along potentially multiple paths and support IIS Development Conclusions First and foremost IIS was able to demonstrate the complex network communications scenario over simulated space links The subscription-driven delivery approach did ensure that the right information would reach the correct consumers and importantly a good deal of intermediate data e.g individual measurement objects was not sent over the final downlink to earth until the report was complete An important finding was determining the low cost of scenario implementation Once the core software and original scenario was implemented a second scenario involving multiple coordinating assets in a failure-mode situation was implemented in a trivial amount of time Development metrics are shown in Figure 7 Figure 7 IIS Development Metrics The primary impact of the more or less mitigate the problems of coherency Again the most important finding of the IIS is that objectbased communications using use of as a CCSDS standard provides capabilities similar to JMS 10 but is designed to operate in resource-challenged environments The primary finding when modifying SharedNet to interface with either communication system was the difficulty in separating the tightly coupled object service layer and the reliable communication layer Given the development resources only partial integrations were attempted We are confident however that a redesign of the object service layer more accurately distilling the object layer from the communication layer would allow those services to be ported to any reliable publish/subscribe mechanism 4 CONCLUSIONS An important finding of the SharedNet development was in determining that the underlying architectural approach was capable of providing high-fidelity communications over complex military network activities With SharedNet in place a range of remote systems shared the same tactical picture of the battlefield environment Also important was the integration interface provided by the common model allowing distributed development across a range of clients leading to successful integration efforts ICNI demonstrated that the communications architecture could be adapted to the space link environment IIS demonstrated that the architecture could support complex network communications scenarios and successfully demonstrated an end-to-end science scenario IIS also exposed the impact of long links on the overall coherency of information across the network Other findings of these studies included the characterization of communications differences between the military and the space network domains The primary difference is in the long light-time across space links as opposed to military domains In the space network environment this was shown to have impacts on management of long distance object references Key similarities between the domains include the high level of network data lossiness and bandwidth restrictions driving the need for priority-driven delivery Avenues offurther study Projected Constellation space network activities involve numbers of interacting ground and space assets working autonomously as well as under partial and direct supervision by ground systems and in-situ astronauts While overall bandwidth may not be as limited as for many SMD missions it must still be considered a commodity in that bandwidth resources are still fundamentally bounded Additionally we must carefully manage the flow of emergency data so that it does not get lost or left behind are largely from long Earth-Mars type links a local planetary Lunar/Mars network will a common information model is capable of managing complex communications scenarios in the space link network environment Work with AMS and DTN Additional research tasks involved replacing the proprietary reliable communication layer developed as part of SharedNet with both the Disruption Tolerant Networking DTN protocol and the Asynchronous Message Service AMS DTN originally developed by DARPA and is also on heterogeneous networks and provide a consistent interface to a variety of QoS criteria for messages The AMS developed by JPL but also submitted a CCSDS standard is designed to overlay 


along the way suggesting that such data should take redundant disconnected paths to its destination Therefore we propose that the activity and network simulation infrastructure be expanded upon to simulate proposed Constellation activities Note that the original model was developed with Constellation in mind This framework would be used to evaluate complex Constellation communications scenarios and develop further required extensions to core information models Ideally the framework would be adapted to utilize space based messaging technologies such as the Delay Tolerant Network DTN With greater numbers of robots producing science and engineering data the problem of managing distribution of data becomes increasingly need-driven of ensuring that the right information gets to the right destination based upon the relative priority of such data Based upon our communications study to date we feel confidant that the proposed architecture of object-based communications built on shared models of information content and relationship is capable of providing systemwide information coherency in the complex space network environment ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The work described in this paper was conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration The authors wish to further acknowledge other individuals who made key contributions to research and development including Marti DeMore Lloyd DeForrest Michael Pajevski and Steven Scandore REFERENCES 1 Akyildiz Ian F et al State of the Art in Interplanetary Internet IEEE Communications Magazine July 2004 2 Matijevic J et al Mars Sample Return Spacecraft Systems Architecture IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 2000 3 A.-M Harri et al Network Science Landers For Mars Adv Space Res Vol 23/11 1999 4 Bradley J Clement Steven R Schaffer Distributed Network Scheduling Proceedings of the 4th International NASA Workshop on Planning and Scheduling for Space 2004 5 Gao Jay L Leang Dee A Demand Access Protocol for Space Applications IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007 BIOGRAPHY Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 16 years He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a messagebased ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontology-based distributed communications Joseph Hutcherson is a senior engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He has been a key figure in the development of the SharedNet since its inception He has also worked on a Java-based adaptation of the Mission Data System control system supported the development and testing of a multi-channel communication system using Iridium satellite phones and most recently developing flight software for a re-usable software and hardware architectural platform 11 


Implant Application 1 Low level analog signal Stimulation Sensor interface Signal digitized and formatted Transmitter Application  receiver controller with MAC RF encoded packets of data Data packets organised into function Change response or cause direct stimulation 


Product Design and Manufacture 225 Work with end product manufacturer Each design is unique 225 No off the peg solution 225 Thorough testing during product development 225 Work with component suppliers 225 World class manufacturing capability 225 Post manufacture test and burn in 225 Reliable parts shipped on time NO SURPRISES NO CHANGES NOTHING EXCITINGI 


Module Encapsulated ZL70101 Crystal Matching network Antenna connection 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


