A Low-Cost Responsive Microsat Bus Utilizing COTS Parts and Components Bill Jackson SpaceDev Inc 13855 Stowe Drive Poway CA 92064 858-375-2069 bill.jackson@spacedev.com Abstract The SpaceDev MMB-100 spacecraft platform is a single-string 100-kg class microsat that is suitable for experiments flight demonstrations and highly-responsive missions It is designed specifically for 1-2 year LEO missions It has flexible launch options including the ESPA ring and the SpaceX Falcon launch vehicle The MMB-100 
makes extensive use of commercial off-the-shelf COTS parts and software which enables low cost and rapid development times Attitude control performance is better than 25 microradians 1-sigma The power subsystem is flexible and can accommodate orbit-average payload loads of up to 150 W Telemetry and data transfers from the spacecraft to the ground are implemented via FTP using standard internet protocols The MMB100 represents a significant 
departure from conventional spacecraft design practices and will enable a new generation of small low-cost satellites.12 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION  1 2 SPACECRAFT OVERVIEW 2 3 SPACECRAFT BUS DESCRIPTION 2 4 USE OF COTS PARTS  6 5 PAYLOAD ACCOMMODATION 7 6 LAUNCH VEHICLE OPTIONS 7 6 SPACECRAFT FAULT PROTECTION 7 7 SUMMARY  9 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  9 REFERENCES  
9 1 INTRODUCTION Background Microsats satellites with masses on the order of 100 kg are finding increasing utility as scaled-down providers of services and capabilities traditionally associated with much larger satellites However microsats to date as a class have not achieved the low cost and responsiveness that had been expected of them One of the primary reasons for this is that traditional aerospace companies continue to design and build microsats the 
same way that they design and build large satellites While a microsat may require less materials or smaller components than its larger counterparts the savings resulting from this are completely swamped out by the costs of adhering to a traditional design approach In addition the adherence to traditional aerospace design practices has made responsive satellites even on the microsat scale an elusive target One of the goals of the MMB-100 spacecraft 
is to break the traditional satellite design paradigm and to develop a methodology for building low-cost responsive microsats Traditional Design Approaches Traditional aerospace design practices are generally characterized by the following attributes  Use of expensive long-lead space-qualified parts and components  Over-reliance on extensive layers of processes  Use of smothering quality assurance controls  Use of large teams of specialists  Inability 
to accept risk  Excessive reviews and documentation  Customer micro-management When these approaches are used even for a microsat it is easy for the cost and schedule to spiral out of control Alternate Design Paradigm As an alternative to the traditional design approach described above we propose a radically different approach to microsat development This approach is characterized by the following attributes  Extensive 
use of commercial parts and COTS components  Selective use of processes where value is added  Selective use of quality assurance controls  Use of small teams of multi-disciplined personnel  Acceptance of risk with mitigation  Minimal reviews and only essential documentation  Customer insight without excessive oversight 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper 1397 Version 3 Updated Dec 15 2007 1 


This paper will focus on the first attribute the use of commercial parts and COTS components in the context of presenting the overall spacecraft design 2 SPACECRAFT OVERVIEW Functional Block Diagram A functional block diagram of the baseline MMB-100 spacecraft is shown in Figure 1 The core avionics consists of a PPC750-based spacecraft control computer SCC and an 8051-based power distribution unit PDU The MMB100 is a three-axis stabilized platform Attitude determination and control is provided by sun sensors a magnetometer a star tracker an IMU magnetorquers and reaction wheels Onboard navigation is provided by a GPS receiver Propulsion is provided by a cold gas blowdown system Additional capabilities can be provided as options beyond the baseline and are discussed below Spacecraft Performance Specs A summary of the baseline MMB-100 performance specifications is provided as Figure 2 The MMB-100 is designed for one-year missions in low-earth orbit The platform has excellent stability agility and onboard processing capability and can host a variety of payloads side panel has a grid of uniformly spaced fastener holes that can accommodate any number of standard adaptor plates Individual spacecraft components which have custom mounting hole patterns are then mounted to the adaptor plates The MMB-100 core structure is comprised of aluminum stringers and aluminum face sheet/honeycomb decks Once the required materials are available the core structure can be built up in just a few weeks The assembly process for the structure unibody consists of the following steps 1 Epoxy channels onto the top and bottom honeycomb decks secure with additional rivets as necessary 2 Add filler strips and fastener hard points 3 Mate top and bottom decks to tooling fixture 4 Attach stringers to decks with epoxy 5 Attach three side panels to stringers with epoxy 6 Attach exterior cap stringers with epoxy 7 Build up two removable side panels 8 Attach removable side panels with fasteners Once the unibody is complete additional secondary structure such as a payload deck or integral propulsion module may be integrated The structure is then ready for component placement and integration Figure 3 shows the MMB100 unibody on the tooling fixture prior to integration of the two removable side panels Figure 2 Baseline MMB-100 Performance Specifications 3 SPACECRAFT BUS DESCRIPTION Structure The baseline MMB-100 uses body-mounted solar arrays for missions that do not require significant amounts of power This configuration uses an internal layout in which components are mounted directly to one of several aluminum honeycomb decks The more robust variants of the MMB100 use a unibody structure in which components are mounted on the inside surfaces of the side panels Each 2 Figure 3 MMB100 Structure on Tooling Fixture 


La c a o 3 0 aJ L 0 UD C n o a Fu E c a U-FD C cn 0 a o X on oU Figure 1 MMB-100 Functional Block Diagram 3 4F T a C C a s 0 0  CL a Ul m 0D 0 v cn U if I 


Thermal Control Thermal control is provided by a simple passive system consisting of paint surface finishes MLI blanket and thermostatically controlled heaters Heat is conducted from internally mounted components to the side panels by heat straps that are attached to the component adaptor plates Propulsion The baseline MMB-100 bus does not have a propulsion subsystem but two propulsion options are available The first option is a simple cold gas GN2 system for low delta-V missions The second option is an add-on hydrazine blowdown propulsion system for high delta-V missions The cold gas system consists of a small GN2 bottle a fill/vent valve a filter and a single thruster This system is mounted on its own removable deck as an independent module and can be assembled integrated and tested separately from the bus The hydrazine system consists of a 12.88 titanium diaphragm tank fill/vent and fill/drain valves a filter two isolation latch valves and four thrusters This system is housed in its entirety in a separate structural module that attaches to the bottom deck of the MMB-100 bus Figure 4 shows a top view of the hydrazine propulsion module Figure 4 Hydrazine Propulsion Module Power Electrical power is provided by photovoltaic solar arrays using triple-junction cells that have a beginning-of-life efficiency of 28.5 Several solar array configurations are available For missions that have low-power payloads or require only sporadic payload operation body-mounted solar arrays may be appropriate This configuration could support continuous payload power levels of about 12 W or sporadic duty of payloads up to about 80 W For more demanding missions a two-panel deployable array configuration could support continuous operation of payloads up to about 25 W For stressing missions a fourpanel deployable array configuration could support continuous operation of payloads up to about 150 W Figure 5 shows the various MMB100 solar array configurations Energy storage is provided by a Li-ion battery The baseline capacity is 15 A-h but this can be easily scaled up to any desired capacity depending on specific mission requirements Power control and distribution is performed by a Power Distribution Unit PDU This single avionics box contains two basic functional units a Power Supply and Input/Output PSIO unit and a Power Control Unit PCU The PSIO uses a boost converter to implement peak power tracking charge control of the battery The PSIO uses dual 200 W battery charge regulators The PCU has 16 FET relays for load switching It also performs the functions of sun sensor and magnetometer conditioning magnetorquer control and backup attitude control Both the PSIO and PCU are controlled by 8051 microcontrollers Guidance Navigation and Control The MMB100 is a three-axis zero-net momentum platform The baseline actuator suite consists of three magnetorquers and three reaction wheels A fourth wheel may be added for redundancy or to provide additional slewing performance along designated axes The nominal attitude sensor suite is comprised of six sun sensors a three-axis magnetometer a star tracker and an IMU Onboard navigation is provided by a GPS receiver The nominal standby attitude configuration is three-axis sun-pointing using the reaction wheels The star tracker and IMU do not have to be used in this mode A backup configuration employs only the sun sensors and magnetometer to provide two-axis sun-pointing with the magnetorquers Attitude knowledge is better than 120 prad 1G7 and attitude control is better than 25 prad 1G7 Slew rates of up to 5 deg/s are achievable using the four reaction wheel configuration Command and Data Handling Command and data handling functions include command processing telemetry collection onboard processing data storage and onboard timing All of these functions are performed by the Spacecraft Control Computer SCC This unit is a single avionics box that contains a singleboard computer a non-volatile memory board a serial I/0 board an ACS I/0 board and a low-voltage power supply 4 


Body-Mounted Solar Panels Two Deployable Solar Panels Four Deployable Solar Panels Figure 5 MMB100 Solar Array Configurations 5 


The single-board computer is based on a PPC750FX processor that is rated at 1856 DMIPS at 800 MHz Onboard RAM is 256 MB This high throughput enables the SCC to provide all of the command processing telemetry handling attitude determination and time management functions and still have reserve capability for payload data processing The non-volatile memory board has 8 GB of USB Flash memory This provides adequate storage for payload data storage bus housekeeping telemetry storage and multiple images of flight software Commands are uplinked using standard Internet Protocol IP Telemetry is also downlinked using IP and the user selects the desired telemetry items by requesting files to be transferred Via an analog-to-digital conversion board located in the PCU 96 channels of 12-bit analog telemetry are available An additional eight analog channels are available on each of the two 8051 microcontrollers in the PDU Supported I/0 protocols include RS-422 RS-485 USB and 10/100 Ethernet Communications The baseline communications scheme uses an S-band transceiver with an uplink receive rate of up to 56 kbps and a downlink transmit rate of up to 512 kbps Transmit power is 1 5 W The uplink modulation format is PM/PSK with BPSK as an option the downlink modulation format is BPSK Omni antenna coverage is provided by pairs of either turnstile or microstrip patch antennas An optional VHF crosslink is also available This is a lowrate 10 kbps self-synchronizing data link that is designed to provide interconnectivity for up to three MMB100 microsats If secure links are required for either the main S-band link or the VHF crosslink then optional ISM-900 encryptor/decryptor units may be connected between the radios and the SCC Software The flight software is highly modular reusable C code Software modules are configured with XML files for easy reconfigurability The use of COTS code increases performance and decreases cost The use of an embedded LINUX operating system with fault-tolerant boot loader also significantly decreases development cost Redundant images of the flight code are stored in Flash memory Data transfers to and from spacecraft are performed via FTP The ground terminal can act as remote telnet console to the spacecraft bus or payload Command and control of the satellite is web-based Overall Bus Layout Figure 6 shows a typical internal layout for an MMB-100 satellite This particular layout shows the body-mounted solar array structure and includes a cold gas propulsion system and an optical imaging payload 4 USE OF COTS PARTS COTS parts can be used successfully in the space environment if the parts are carefully selected screened and tested The use of COTS parts may also require a more robust fault protection scheme on the spacecraft Parts Selection If there are multiple choices of similar parts available from different vendors a designer may wish to compare device specifications and select a device with superior performance robustness or other desirable characteristic Data on the performance of COTS parts in a radiation environment is beginning to become available in the public domain This would be a logical first step in the parts selection process Device Screening By using selective screening a designer may also select parts from lots that performed better during radiation testing Not all COTS devices are created equal and selective screening can be a valuable tool for weeding out the less desirable ones Radiation Testing Because radiation data is generally not available for COTS components the only way to prove that they can survive in the space environment is to irradiate them in a particle accelerator Due to variability in the manufacturing process it is prudent to test devices from each lot Radiation testing at least for critical components provides an excellent way to assess the on-orbit reliability of a COTS device System-Level Mitigation Techniques Another very effective strategy for using COTS components in space is to use system-level mitigation techniques to complement the component-level mitigation techniques described above Examples of effective system-level techniques include 0 0 0 0 0 0 Error detection and correction EDAC Redundancy Radiation-tolerant circuit designs Distributed functionality Backup systems Fault protection systems 6 


6 SPACECRAFT FAULT PROTECTION Payload Volume For the baseline body-mounted solar array configuration the nominal internal volume available for payloads is 2500 cubic inches By rearranging the internal deck structure this volume can be increased to 3900 cubic inches For the other deployable solar array configurations the available payload volume can be significantly greater because most of the spacecraft components are mounted on the interior side walls rather than on internal decks Payload Mass The baseline MMB-100 is designed to accommodate payloads up to 60 kg in mass Payload boxes are mounted on the underside of the internal payload deck The topside of the payload deck serves as an optical bench and is designed to accommodate the star tracker and IMU The deployable solar array variants can support similar payload masses but the internal arrangement is different Payload Field-ofView The baseline configuration provides payloads an unobstructed view to space by allowing them to penetrate one of the side panels opposite the solar arrays The deployable solar array configurations also permit penetration of the top deck for larger optical payloads 6 LAUNCH VEHICLE OPTIONS The MMB100 is designed to support multiple launch vehicle options The baseline configuration fits within the ESPA launch envelope In addition three MMB100 vehicles can fit within the Falcon launch vehicle fairing If the Falcon launch option is chosen the solar array widths can be extended to provide additional power Figure 7 shows three MMB-100 satellites with extended-width solar panels on a Falcon launch vehicle Figure 7 Three MMB-100 Microsats on Falcon Launch Vehicle The MMB-100 spacecraft is almost entirely single-string and uses many commercial parts and components However additional on-orbit reliability is provided by a comprehensive fault protection system This system is designed to isolate faults as soon as possible to preserve functionality of the spacecraft The system is NOT designed to save the spacecraft from all possible failures Since the bus is single-string there are by definition many single-point failure mechanisms The fault protection system provides limited protection against credible recoverable faults and reasonable protection against ground operator errors Fault protection actions are autonomous but recovery is only by ground command Multiple operational modes allow graceful degradation Fault protection functions are implemented in both hardware and software and three-way check  balance monitoring is continuously performed between the distributed processors in the PSIO PCU and SCC Mode Descriptions The MMB-100 has five fundamental operational modes Payload Normal Safe Emergency and Coma In Payload Mode the satellite is ready to perform full payload operations The payload is powered on and functioning properly and no spacecraft bus faults have been detected All attitude sensors are on The S-band communications system may or may not be transmitting Normal Mode is the default quiescent mode in which the satellite spends most of its time All bus systems are generally nominal although this mode may be used to trap minor errors not directly affecting the health and safety of the vehicle It may also be used to trap payload faults and terminate payload operations The SCC is online and the vehicle nominally assumes a sun-pointed nadir-constrained attitude Normal Mode has operational submodes for performing payload calibration ACS sensor calibration and propulsive maneuvers Safe Mode is the first spacecraft anomaly mode and is entered when significant bus faults have been detected The SCC is online and performing sun-pointed nadirconstrained attitude control as before but without the benefit of the star tracker The GPS receiver is powered on to update the time for the magnetic field and solar ephemeris models The reaction wheels are on and the SCC may be power cycled without interrupting power to the wheels All non-essential loads have been shed Safe Mode is used to trap hardware and software faults that could directly affect bus health and safety Emergency Mode is the second spacecraft anomaly mode and is entered when critical bus faults have been detected The SCC is offline and attitude control is provided by the 7 5 PAYLOAD AcCOMMODATION 


GPS Battery Reaction Wheels Star Tracker S-Band Transceiver PDU Torque Rod Propulsion Module Payload Bay typical Figure 6 Typical MMB-100 Spacecraft Components 8 


PCU The reaction wheels are off and the PCU implements two-axis sun-pointing with the magnetometer sun sensors and torque rods Prior to performing the two-axis sun pointing unwanted body rates are removed via a detumble algorithm All PCU loads have been shed except for the Sband communications system All communication is performed via the secondary channel Emergency Mode is used to trap critical faults that could seriously jeopardize bus health and safety Emergency Mode has one operational submode called Idle Submode This submode is used to facilitate fault recovery operations In Idle Submode the SCC is online to provide basic C&DH functions only and the main application does not execute The PCU continues to provide 2-axis attitude control This permits diagnostics to be performed by the ground before the SCC is entrusted with full control of the vehicle The GPS receiver is powered on so that the vehicle is prepared for the transition to Safe Mode Coma Mode is the third and most severe spacecraft anomaly mode and is entered when the battery voltage drops below 18.74 V Upon entering this mode all PCU loads are shed the torque rod drivers are disabled and analog telemetry is disabled The PSIO and PCU are capable of operating at voltages as low as 14V and therefore continue to function but the PCU will not be able to employ the torque rods Because no attitude control is performed the vehicle will eventually enter a random tumble The PSIO will attempt to charge the battery with whatever incident solar energy is available from the solar panels Coma Mode is exited when the battery voltage rises above 22 V 7 SUMMARY The MMB-100 spacecraft is a highly capable platform with robust performance margins The extensive use of commercial parts components and software enables low cost and responsive development times Launch options are flexible and cost-effective and up to three vehicles can be launched on a single Falcon launch vehicle Also the nontraditional approach used to design build and test the spacecraft offers additional cost and schedule savings over traditional aerospace approaches ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Many thanks to the entire team at SpaceDev that is developing the MMB100 spacecraft Thanks in particular to Tony Sandstrom for his development of an innovative and flexible spacecraft structure 2 C Barnes and A Johnston Radiation Hardness Assurance Issues Associated with COTS in JPL Flight Systems The Challenge of Europa Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology Pasadena CA 3 D Patterson COTS in Space If You Can't Stand the Heat Stay Out of the Capsule MIL/COTS Digest Mar 2006 4 D Thomhill Large-Scale Use of COTS in Space SAMPE Conference Long Beach CA May 1999 5 C Barnes New Radiation Issues for Spacecraft Microelectronics Commercial Off-the-Shelf COTS Radiation Testing and Failure Analysis Group Jet Propulsion Laboratory Jan 1998 6 P Guldager G Thuesen and J Jorgensen Quality Assurance for Space Instruments Built with COTS Acta Astronautica Vol 56 pp 279-283 2005 Biography Bill Jackson received BS degrees in both Computer Science and Electrical Engineering from Northwestern University in 1982 He attended USAF Officer Training School following graduation and entered active duty in 1982 He served with the National Air Intelligence Center the Air Force Institute of Technology where he received an MSEE degree in 1986 and the National Reconnaissance Office He separated from the USAF in 1990 and joined Ball Aerospace and Technologies Corporation in Boulder Colorado where he worked for 15 years as a spacecraft systems engineer He received an ME in Space Operations from the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs in 1996 and a PhD in Electrical Engineering from the same institution in 2000 Dr Jackson is presently the Chief Engineer for Satellite Systems at SpaceDev Inc in Poway California His areas of expertise include systems engineering optimization mathematical modeling and simulation of space systems space mission analysis and spacecraft design Dr Jackson is a Senior Member of the IEEE and the AIAA REFERENCES 1 B Jackson A Robust Fault Protection Strategy for a COTS-Based Spacecraft IEEE Aerospace Conf Proceedings Mar 2007 9 


http://www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/PIP_Political_Info_Repor t.pdf 10 S  P  Ro b e rtso n   Voter-Centered Design: Toward a Voter Decision Support System", ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction \(TOCHI\ol. 12, no. 2, pp 263-292, 2005 11 S P. Robe rts on D e s ig n Re se a r c h in Dig ita l Government: A Query Prosthesis for Voters", Proceedings of dg.o2008: 9th Annual Conference on Digital Government Research, New York: ACM Press, 2008 12 S P. R o be rts on, C  E  W a nia  G   A b ra ham  a nd S.J   Park Drop-Down Democracy: Internet Portal Design Influences Voters' Search Strategies Proceedings of the 41 st Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2008 13 C  C Marshall  Annotation: From Paper Books to the Digital Library", Proceedings of the Second ACM International Conference on Digital Libraries, pp. 131-140 1997 14 L  D e noue a nd L  Vig noll e t Personal Information Organization Using Web Annota tions", Proceedings of the WebNet 2001 World Conference on the WWW and Internet, pp. 279-283, 2001 15 L  B  Ig o, K   A  K i ew ra  a nd R  B r uning  Individual Differences and Intervention Flaws: A Sequential Explanatory Study of College Students' Copy-and-Paste Note Taking", Journal of Mixed Methods Research, vol. 2 no. 2, pp. 149-168, 2008 16 R. E  May e r, an d R. Mo ren o  Nine Ways to Reduce Cognitive Load in Multimedia Learning", Educational Psychologist, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 43-52, 2003 17 T  Oliv e  R. T  Ke llog g   a nd A  P i ola t  T he  T r iple Task Technique for Studying the Process of Writing", In T Olive and C. Levy, eds., Contemporary Tools and Techniques for Studying Writing, pp. 31-59, Dordrecht Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001 18 A  P i ola t T  Oliv e   a nd R. T  K e llog g   Cognitive Effort During Note Taking", Applied Cognitive Psychology, vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 291-312, 2005 1 I G l o v er Z  Xu  an d G  H a rd aker  Online Annotation Research and Practices", Computers Education, vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 1308-1320, 2007 20  P  L  R a u  S  H  C h e n  a n d Y  T  C h i n   Developing Web Annotation Tools for Learners and Instructors Interacting with Computers  vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 163-181 2004 21  X Fu, T  C i s z e k G  Ma rchio n ini  a n d P   Sol o m on  Annotating the Web: An Exploratory Study of Web Users  Needs for Personal Annotation Tools", Proceedings of the 68th Annual Meeting of the American Society for Information Science & Technology, 42. Charlotte, NC 2005 22 W  Y  H w a n g  C  Y  W a n g  a n d M  S h a r p l e s   A Study of Multimedia Annotation of Web-Based Materials Computers & Education, vol. 48, no. 4, pp. 680-699, 2007 23  P  Nok e la ine n M. Mie tti ne n, J. Kurhila  P. Flore e n   and H. Tirri   A Shared Document-Based Annotation Tool to Support Learner-Centred Collaborative Learning British Journal of Educational Technology, vol. 36, no. 5 pp. 757-770, 2005 24 J  J  C a diz  A  G upta  a n d J  G r udin Using Web Annotations for Asynchronous Collaboration Around Documents", Proceedings of the 2000 ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, pp. 309-318 2000 25 C  C  Ma rs ha ll a nd A  J  B  B r us h Exploring the Relationship Between Personal and Public Annotations Proceedings of the 2004 Joint ACM/IEEE Conference on Digital Libraries, pp. 349-357, 2004 26  S P. R obe rts o n, C  E W a nia  a n d S J   P a rk  An Observational Study of Voters on the Internet Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2007 2 J L a n d i s and G  Ko ch   The Measurement of Observer Agreement for Categorical Data", Biometrics vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 159-174, 1977 28 S   P  R obe rtso n Digital Deliberation: Searching and Deciding About How to Vote", Proceedings of dg.o2006 7th Annual Conference on Digital Government Research New York: ACM Press, 2006 29 S P. Ro be rts on P. A c ha na nupa rp, J  L  G o ldm a n  S.J Park, N. Zhou, and M. J. Clare  Voting and Political Information Gathering on Paper and Online", Extended Abstracts of CHI '05: Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York: ACM Press, pp. 1753-1756, 2005 30 R  Va tr a pu S P. R o be r t s on, a nd W  D i s s a na y a k e   Are Political Weblogs Public Spheres or Partisan Spheres International Reports on Socio-Informatics, in press   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


BIOGRAPHY Sonia Vohnout Sonia Vohnout is Systems Engineer at Ridgetop Group Inc She received her Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from the University of Costa Rica and Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Systems Engineering from the University of Arizona In the past she has worked for Modular Mining IBM and AT&T Bell Laboratories She previously owned and operated a manufacturing facility in Mexico She is an expert modeler and has extensive expertise in software and computer systems Ms Vohnout has over 20 years of experience in systems engineering quality systems management and business development and management Douglas Goodman Patent Review Roundtable Doug Goodman founded Ridgetop Group Inc in 2000 and has over 30 years experience as an Electronic Engineer including work at Tektronix and Honeywell He earned a BSEE from California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo and an MBA from the University of Portland He has published over 20 papers on instrumentation and control and was a Member of the Tektronix Mr Goodman is a co-founder and President of Opmaxx the firm that developed the first commercially available Analog Built-In Self-Test BIST product line including selfcontained IP for measuring the performance of ADCs PLLs Gain Stages and other mixed signal modules He has extensive experience in low noise instrumentation design stemming from a 14-year stint at Tektronix Inc He was Vice President of Engineering at Analogy Inc an Analog/Mechatronic Simulation Tool firm which after a successful IPO on the NASDAQ became part of Synopsys Inc a large Electronic Design Automation EDA firm At Ridgetop Group Mr Goodman is the Principal Investigator on a number of electronic prognostics and radiation-hardened IC-related projects in addition to his executive duties Justin Judkins is Director of  Research and oversees the research and implementations of electronic prognostics His research interests involve applying sensor array technology to various reasoning engines to provide optimum performance for electronic modules and systems He previously held senior-level engineering positions at Bell Labs and Lucent involving high-reliability telecom transmission He received a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Arizona Mladen Kozak Mladen Kozak is a Design Engineer and Technical Staff Member for Ridgetop Group Inc He is instrumental in eve oping inovative solutions supporting Ridgetop's prognostic and ePHM efforts related to Power Electronics Switching Power Supplies and Electro-Mechanical Actuators His technical background includes circuit design and complex control system simulations He received his BSEE from the University of Arizona and is currently pursuing an MS Ken Harris Ken Harris is the senior technical writer at Ridgetop Group An expert in usability and crosscultural communication he has served as plenary speaker and symposium chair for advanced topics in technical communication and information design Over a 25year career he has become an award-winning writer designer and illustrator with awards ranging from academic contests to juried national and international competitions Mr Harris worked as senior writer technical illustrator and information product designer at Lucent Motorola NCR and Cingular Wireless before moving to Arizona and joining Ridgetop Group He received a BA in English from the University of New Mexico graduating cum laude and with departmental honors He has taught graduate technical writing and graphic design at Georgia Tech and Southern Polytechnic State University and is a senior fellow in the Society for Technical Communication 11 Justin Judkins 


  12 the PL is intended to fulfill, thus many requirements and specifications that would be found in a PL design specification would need to be provided by the specific PL procurement agency. The ORS Phase III standards can be downloaded from http://projects.nrl.navy.mil/busstandards  Communications Interfaces  A key external interface for th e space segment \(bus and PL is RF communications to the ground. This topic investigated standardization for SC command and control \(C&C communications link and the tactical communication link Figure 11 presents a basic high-level view of the RF communications pathways envisioned in the standards Other issues investigated related to both current and future approaches the military is planning for RF communications including, data flow, frequency band definitions modulation techniques, data rates, communication security COMSEC\and basic defi nition of ground interface locations. Given the current maturity of the general military SC C&C network, the presen t SGLS architecture and the expected Unified S-Band \(USB\architecture were established as the standard. Fo r the tactical links, standard UHF was established for LDR application, and the Common Data Link \(CDL\ocol was established as the HDR standard Ground Support Checkout Interface In support of the rapid call-up scenario, standards for interfacing spacecraft bus and the payload, and processing the integrated space vehicle though launch, is one of the unique activities under the IS ET derived ORS system design. The need to develop an approach for this effort in sufficient detail in order to derive requirements that would influence the spacecraft bus design is critical. The approaches developed have design and manufacturing ramification on the bus, such as the ability to install batteries late in the flow, rapid \223built-in-test\224 capabilities periodic checks, and access a nd safety implications Data Interfaces: Bus to Payload and Ground This document defines the data exchange protocols, data transport formats, packet definitions and field definitions for the bus/PL interface. Underlying electrical interface for the bus/PL interface is the HDLC and SpaceWire. The bus/PL interface is defined such that the HDLC interface SpaceWire interface, or both can be used. The bus design will provide support for both interfaces. The PL may choose to implement either one or both. The bus/PL interface is defined to dynamically suppor t either or both interfaces without needing bus reconfiguration \(i.e., FSW changes This document also defines the data exchange protocols data transport and packet template for the space/ground interface. The space to ground interface definition assumes the use of a flight side SGLS transponder integrated with COMSEC slices. The SGLS forward link assumes a flightside Cardholder COMSEC slice. The SGLS return link  Figure 11 Radio Frequency Communications Architecture  


  13 assumes that the SGLS transponder supports both the narrow-band and wide-band inte rfaces. While a return link COMSEC is required, this document assumes that the return link COMSEC does not levy any blocking or packaging constraints for the return link This interface standard was developed as part of the ORS Phase 3 Bus effort. This interface standard was adopted by the ORS Phase 3 Bus and COMMx payload elements. As a result, the TACSAT-4 spacecraft implemented the encl osed interface standards for its bus to payload and space to ground interfaces This document is limited to and currently defines the interfaces between the spacecraf t bus and the payload, and between the spacecraft bus and the ground. Subsequent releases will define the add itional internal interfaces. The depth of detail required for in terface standardization and the need for coverage of additional interfaces is an ongoing assessment effort by ORS s upported standards definition efforts. The intent is to levy interface standards where these standards will lead to efficien t system integration, robust operational capabilities, and improved system flexibility while reducing overall system cost 4  C ONCLUSION  Both the STP-SIV and the ORS ISET efforts have developed standards that provide options for cost-effective capable, flexible spaceflight. Pathfinder SC buses are currently in development for both efforts and will have flight heritage within approximately one year Through the efforts of ISET and the associate prototype teams, the ORS program ha s successfully produced an extensive and well-documented set of ORS bus standards consistent with the ORS concept of operations \(CONOPS and classes of missions. The process used to produce these standards has resulted in technically sound standards which are understood, with buy in from industry. Business factors were also strongly considered to improve the transition of these standards into successful acquisition under a subsequent operational phase While ORS must provide the business foundation, these technical standards are intended to be more broadly useful in order to further volume production, standards acceptance, and the industry business cases. The ORS standards are readily available to Government organizations and payload developers SDTW employs lessons learned from decades of space flight to standardization of STP-SIV design. Flexibility is planned from the beginning and missions are adapted within the range of the SC\222s capability. Development of SC standards requires upfront investment in order to achieve a return on investment once multiple missions have been built and flown. The more PL provi ders who are willing to adopt the STP-SIV interfaces and deve lop experiments applicable to the capabilities of the SC the more successful this program will become R EFERENCES   National Research Council The Role of Small Satellites in NASA and NOAA Earth Observation Programs National Academy Press, Washington D.C., 2000  G F Squibb, \223Meeting the Needs of the Space Technology Industry,\224 ISO Focus, Oct 2005   T. P. Nosek, \223The EOS Aqua A ura Experi ence  Lessons Learned on Design, Integration, and Test of EarthObserving Satellites,\224 AIAA 2004-6060, Space 2004 Conference, Sept. 2004  Mark Barrera, Aerospace Co rp., \223Briefing: Experience from Past Spacecraft Standard ization Efforts,\224 STP-SIV Kickoff Meeting, Ball Aerospace, 27 April 2006 5 D. Bren izer, S. An d r ews, G. Ho g a n   223A Stan d a rd  Satellite Bus for National Security Space Missions,\224 MIT Lincoln Laboratory, March 2005   C Garner, M Hurl ey G. Sandhoo, E. Fi nnegan, P Stadter, B. Kantsiper, \223ORS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS4-2006-3005, AIAA 4 th Responsive Space Conference 2006, Los Ange les, California, April 24-27, 2006   G. Sandhoo, M Johnson, W R a y nor, M  Hurl ey  P Stadter, C. Schein, C. Garner, "ORS/JWS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS5-2007-3002, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007   P St adt e r, G. Sandhoo, M Hurl ey S. Vernon, P Schwartz, B. Williams, "Responsive Spacecraft Bus Implementation for Unique HEO missions Based on Standard Interfaces." AIAA-RS5-2007-4004, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007  Responsiv e Space Mission Requirements and Concept of Operations \(CONOPS\SBS-001 Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-DSB001  Res ponsive Space Launch Vehicle Interface Standards \(LVIS SBS-004, Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB002  Responsiv e Space Payload Developers Guide \(PDG Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB001  Responsiv e Space General Bus Standard GBS\er for Space Technologies Report NCST-S-SB00 


  14 B IOGRAPHY  Capt. Chris Badgett is a System Engineer for the STP-SIV at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. He previously served as developmental engineer at Air Force Research Laboratory Munitions Directorate working on a weapon data link and F-16 small munitions dispenser. He has a B.S.E.E. from University of Tennessee and an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STP-SIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology Mike Hurley is the Spacecraft Development Section Head at NRL in Washington DC. Mr. Hurley has helped shape and implement ORS and TacSat experimentation since 2002. Beginning April 2003, he was Program Manager for the Secretary of Defense\222s \(OSD\ ORS initiative, as well as the Principle Investigator for Office of Naval Research\222s \(ONR\ TacSat Innovative Naval Prototype \(INP program. In 2005 he received the DOD Civilian Meritorious Medal for his work in ORS and TacSat experimentation. He is an engineering graduate of Virginia Tech and holds an M.B.A. from George Mason University  Paul Jaffe is an electrical engineer and the Integration and Testing Section Head at the Naval Center for Space Technology at NRL. He has worked on NASA and DOD space missions, including Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory STEREO\ and TacSat-1. Recently he developed standards and led spacecraft computer hardware development for TacSat-4 as part of the DOD ORS effort He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University Hallie Walden is an Advanced Systems Manager at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. She worked as the STP-SIV Capture Manager and as the Deputy Program Manager from program inception through the Preliminary Design Review. Prior efforts include thermal, fluids, and thermodynamic analyses and design for Ball Aerospace, Lockheed Martin, and AlliedSignal \(now Honeywell\. She holds B.S.M.E and M.S.M.E. degrees from Stanford University  Alan Lopez is currently a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. in Boulder CO since 2005. He received his undergraduate degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois and began working at TRW in Redondo Beach, CA in 1985. After completing his M.S.E.E. degree at the University of Southern California in 1990, he began working at Hughes Space and Communications in El Segundo, CA  Mike Pierce is a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. He is the Chief System Engineer for the STP-SIV program and wrote the STP-SIV PLUG. Prior efforts include system modeling and simulation, mission operations, and mission design working for Spectrum Astro \(now General Dynamics\ and the USAF At Spectrum Astro, he was a key member of Discover II Space Based Infrared System\( SBIRS\ Low and Near Field Infrared Experiment \(NFIRE\ programs. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder  David Kaufmann is Program Manager for STP-SIV at Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp He also served as Program Manager for DARPA Orbital Express NextSat Commodity Spacecraft program. He previously served as a Thermal Engineer at Hughes Space and Communications Co. in El Segundo, CA. He holds a B.S. from Stanford University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in Mechanical Engineering 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


