 1 The Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet Architecture  Alberto Elfes a Gregg W. Podnar b John M. Dolan b Stephen Stancliff b Ellie Lin b Jeffrey C. Hosler c  Troy J. Ames c John Higinbotham d John R. Moisan e Tiffany A. Moisan e Eric A. Kulczycki a  a Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Ins titute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91109 USA b The Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 USA c NASA Goddard Space Flight F 
acility, Greenbelt, MD 20771 USA d Emergent Space Technologies, Greenbelt, MD 20770  e NASA Wallops Flight Facility, Wallops Island, VA 23337 USA Emails: elfes@jpl.nasa.gov, gwp@cs.cmu.edu, jmd@cs.c mu.edu, stancliff@cmu.edu, elliel@andrew.cmu.edu jeffrey.c.hosler@nasa.gov, troy.j.ames nasa.gov, john.higinbotham@emergentspace.com, John.R.Moisan@nasa.gov tmoisan@osb1.wff.nasa.gov, eric.a.kulczycki@jpl.nasa.gov   Abstract Earth science research must bridge the gap between the atmosphere and the ocean to foster understanding of Earth`s climate and ecology. Ocean sensing is typically done with satellites, buoys, and crewed research ships.  The limitations of these systems include the fact that satellites are often blocked by cloud cover, and buoys and ships have spatial coverage limitations. This 
paper describes a Multilevel Autonomy Robot Telesupervision Architecture \(MARTA\ for multi-robot science exploration, and an embodiment of the MARTA architecture in a real world system called the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet \(TAOSF\upervises and coordinates a group of robotic boats, the OASIS platforms, to enable in-situ study of phenomena in the ocean/atmosphere interface, as well as on the ocean surface and sub-surface. The OASI S platforms are extendeddeployment autonomous ocean surface vehicles, whose development is funded separately by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrati on \(NOAA\. TAOSF allows a human operator to effectively supervise and coordinate multiple robotic assets using the MARTA multi-level autonomy control architecture 
where the operating mode of the vessels ranges from autonomous control to teleoperated human control. TAOSF increases data-gathering effectiveness and science return while reducing demands on scientists for robotic asset tasking, control, and monitoring The first field application chosen for TAOSF is the characterization of Harmful Algal Blooms \(HABs\. We discuss the overall TAOSF system and the underlying MARTA architecture, describe field tests conducted under controlled conditions using rhodamine dye as a HAB simulant, present initial results from these tests, and outline the next steps in the development of TAOSF 12   T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 
1 2  TAOSF  A RCHITECTURE 2 3  OASIS  P LATFORMS AND I NFRASTRUCTURE 3   1  1-4244-14881/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1293, Version 3, updated 2007:12:22  4  H ARMFUL A LGAL B LOOMS 4 5  HAB  S ENSING AND C HARACTERIZATION  4 6  A ERIAL F 
IELD T EST O BSERVATION P LATFORM 6 7  I NTEGRATED S YSTEM T ESTING AND V ALIDATION 7 8  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK 8 A CKNOWLEDGMENTS 8 R EFERENCES 8 B IOGRAPHY 9  1  I NTRODUCTION  Earth science research requires information obtained from space, the atmosphere and the o cean to foster understanding of the Earth and its natural processes. Developing a better 
understanding of ocean processes, in particular, is crucial for global warming, meteorological and ecological studies Ocean sensing is typically done with satellites, buoys airborne assets and crewed research vessels. Satellites and airplanes are limited by cloud cover and temporal/geographical coverage and resolution, while research vessels are expensive to deploy, and buoys cannot be self-deployed to specific areas of interest The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA\ is addressing some of these constraints through the development of robotic ocean boats for weather-related ocean monitoring. The OASIS Ocean-Atmosphere Sensor Integration System\essels are long-duration solar-powered autonomous surface vehicles ASVs\igned for global open-ocean operations \(Figs. 1, 4, 5\. One of the key 
objectives of our research is to enhance the science value of multiple robotic sensing assets such as the OASIS vessels by coordinating their operation, adapting their activities in response to sensor observations, and allowing a human operator to oversee multiple assets with minimal effort This paper describes a multi-robot science exploration software architecture called Multilevel Autonomy Robot Telesupervision Architecture \(MARTA\, and a real-world system that embodies MARTA called the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet \(TAOSF\upervises and coordinates a group of robotic boats, the OASIS platforms, to enable in-situ study of phenomena in the 


 2 ocean/atmosphere interface, as well as on the ocean surface and sub-surface The TAOSF system is applicable to the study of dynamic processes such as coastal pollutants, oil spills, hurricanes or harmful algal blooms. More generally, the underlying architecture, MARTA, can be used in a variety of areas where multiple sensing assets are needed, including ecological forecasting, water management, carbon management, disaster management, coastal management homeland security, and planetary exploration The first field application chosen for TAOSF is the characterization of Harmful Al gal Blooms \(HABs\. In the following sections, we will discuss the overall TAOSF architecture, introduce the HAB problem, describe field tests conducted under controlled conditions using rhodamine dye as a HAB simulant, present initial results from these tests, and outline the next steps in the development of TAOSF  Figure. 1. Artist’s concept of the OASIS robot vessels investigating the nature and extent of a Harmful Algal Bloom \(HAB  2  TAOSF  A RCHITECTURE  The TAOSF system architectur e \(Fig. 2\ provides an integrated approach to multi-robot coordination and sliding robot-human autonomy. It allows multiple mobile sensing assets to function in a cooperative fashion, and the operating mode of different vehicles to vary from autonomous control to teleoperated control TAOSF supports the following features   Multi-Level autonomy allowing an operator to control the vehicles by setting high-level goals, such as specifying an area to monitor, or by taking direct control of the vehicles via teleoperation, or at other autonomy levels in between   Adaptive replanning of the activities of the OASIS vessels based on sensor inputs \(dynamic sensing\ and coordination between multiple assets thereby increasing data-gathering ef fectiveness while reducing the effort required for tasking, control, and monitoring of the vehicles   Web-based communications permitting control and communications over long distances and the sharing of data with remote experts   Autonomous hazard and assistance detection  allowing automatic identifica tion of hazards that require human intervention to ensure the safety and integrity of the robotic vehicles, or of science data that require human interpretation and response   Onboard science analysis of the acquired data in order to perform an initial assessment of the presence of specific science signatures of immediate interest  Figure 2. The TAOSF architecture  The TAOSF system software arch itecture \(Fig. 2\integrates and extends five subsystems developed by the participating institutions. The five TAOSF components \(Fig. 3 below 1  The OASIS Autonomous Surface Vehicle \(ASV System includes the vessels themselves, as well as the landbased control and communications infrastructure which has been developed for them.  The OASIS platform software directly controls the hardware of each boat \(sensors actuators, etc.\pr ovides a low-level waypoint navigation capability. This system has been developed by Emergent Space Technologies \(EST\working with the team members at the NASA Wallops Flight Facility \(WFF where the platforms are built and maintained 2  The Multi-Platform Simulation Environment has been developed by NASA Goddard Space Flight Facility GSFC\urrogate for the OASIS ASV system, allowing independent development and testing of the higher-level software components 3  The Platform Communicator acts as a proxy for both 


 3 actual and simulated platforms It translates platformindependent messages from the higher control systems to the device-dependent communication protocols. This component, developed by GSFC, enables the higher-level control systems to interact identically with heterogeneous actual or simulated platforms 4  The Adaptive Sensor Fleet \(ASF provides autonomous platform assignment and path planning for area coverage surveys, as well as monitoring of mission progress.  The ASF is developed by GSFC 5  The System Supervision Architecture \(SSA provides high-level planning, monitoring, and telesupervision, as well as analysis of science data from both the OASIS platforms and external sources such as satellite imagery and fixed sensors.  These data are used by the SSA to plan vessel navigational trajectories for data gathering. The SSA also provides an operator interface for those occasions when a scientist desires to exert direct monitoring and control of individual boats and their instruments. The SSA is based on the Robot Supervision Architecture [1  devel ope d b y  CMU and JPL  OASIS ASV System EST  Platform Communicator GSFC Multi-Platform Simulation Environment GSFC Adaptive Sensor Fleet GSFC System Supervision Architecture CMU/JPL  Figure 3. Software components of the TAOSF architecture  Our initial development effort has concentrated on the integration of these subsystems. We have demonstrated endto-end integration of SSA, ASF and OASIS in a dry-boat test in May of 2007, and execut ed integrated in-water tests in the Chesapeake bay in June and August of 2007  3  OASIS  P LATFORMS AND I NFRASTRUCTURE  The NOAA-funded OASIS Platform Build Team, which consists of EG&G, Zinger Enterprises, and Emergent Space Technologies, provides vehicle development, payload integration and testing, operations, and maintenance of the OASIS fleet and ground systems. The OASIS platform itself is a long-duration solar-powered autonomous surface vehicle \(ASV\ designed for autonomous global open-ocean operations \(Fig. 4\. The platform is approximately 18 feet long and weighs just over 3000 lbs. The vehicle has a payload capacity of 500 lbs, and is designed to be selfrighting to ensure survivability in heavy seas.  It supports a wide range of communication links including spread spectrum radio, a cellular phone link, and an Iridium satellite link  Figure 4. The OASIS boat with its primary sensor systems Two platforms \(named OASIS1 and OASIS2\re currently undergoing testing at WFF and will support operations for the TAOSF project. Additi onal platforms are under production. OASIS shakedown operations have been performed since early 2005 in the waters of the DELMARVA region, including the Chincoteague Bay and Pocomoke Sound. The first open-ocean deployment of the OASIS system was performed in November 2006 \(Fig. 5 During this operation, the OASIS2 platform successfully navigated over 8 nautical miles on a transect line established in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast from WFF.  OASIS1 and OASIS2 are currently undergoing upgrades, sensor integration, and testing in preparation for endurance trials and science operations  Figure 5. First open-ocean deployment of an OASIS platform, November 2006 Sensors onboard the OASIS2 pl atform enable the collection of water salinity and conductivity data, sea surface temperature, and chlorophyll measurements. A rhodamine fluorometer was integrated to support mapping operations during dye deployment tests.  The forward payload bay 


 4 provides space for installation of additional sensors. This bay includes a water flow-through system with manifolds and a de-bubbling system which simplifies installation of new sensors A mast-mounted meteorological station allows acquisition of atmospheric measurements, including barometric pressure, air temperature, rela tive humidity, wind speed, and wind direction. OASIS2 is also equipped with a forwardlooking digital imaging system providing remotely located scientists with images of atmospheric and sea state conditions \(Fig. 14 The off-board infrastructure developed by EST is known as the OASIS Mission Operations Environment \(MOE\The MOE resides in the Wallops Coastal Ocean Observation Laboratory \(WaCOOL\ control room and provides applications and services that enable the WFF engineering and science operations team to perform platform commanding and telemetry monitoring, as well as communications management. The MOE also provides a middleware interface to enable other customers, such as the TAOSF project, to integrate new systems that further enhance OASIS science operations 4  H ARMFUL A LGAL B LOOMS  Interest in Harmful Algal Bloom \(HAB\ection has grown in recent years for scientific, commercial and public health reasons. Depending on the type of algae present HABs have been shown to be dangerous to sea life and to human health The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute \(WHOI\as mapped the distribution of Alexandrium fundyense cysts in the sea floor of the Gulf of Ma  T h e Flori d a Fis h a n d Wildlife Research Institute is analyzing a historical database of  concentrations of the HAB dinoflagellate Karenia Brevis  in Florida waters [6 ile th e No rt h w est Fish eries Science Center is developing probes for detecting toxins produced by different species of Pseudo-nitzschia 7 There is a significant interest in identifying environmental factors that contribute to th e occurrence of HABs, so that these may be incorporated in bloom prediction algorithms A regional study on the dinoflagellate Karlodinium veneficum has been generating near real-time maps of HABs in the Chesapeake Bay using a hydrodynamic model and satellite data [8 e m e t h odo log y u s es ti m e o f year salinity, and sea-surface te mperature to predict the abundance \(low, medium, or high\of the dinoflagellate The accuracy of these predic tions is currently under evaluation. Another group has developed a system of tracking and predicting the spatiotemporal dynamics of the HAB species Karenia Brevis in the Gulf of Mexico [9 e similarity of target objects in consecutive images is used to track the target over time.  The system predicts the spatiotemporal dynamics of a bloom using a cellular automaton model to simulate the growth, shrinkage, and collision of blooms under specific wind conditions. This interactive system has been shown to give a 30x speedup over the manual analysis of the image data TAOSF will provide the following advantages over existing systems for observing and analyzing HABs   Dynamic tasking and adaptation   Higher in situ resolution and greater insensitivity to cloud cover in comparison with current satellite systems   Access to and greater agility in coastal waters than what is available through buoys   Real-time multipoint science data observations and generation of associated interpretations by remotely located oceanographers 5  HAB  S ENSING AND C HARACTERIZATION  Our work in this area has two components  Fi rst  we a r e assembling and analyzing all known HAB-related data from the Chesapeake Bay area. Second, for initial sensor testing and validation we have developed a means of producing and ground-truthing a surrogat e HAB using rhodamine, a fluorescent compound commonly used as a water tracer dye HAB datasets and analysis The Maryland Department of Natural Resources \(DNR\ has provided us with descripti ons and HAB species cell-count data from five regions in the Chesapeake and Coastal Bays that have experienced algal blooms.  We used a Gaussian process approach to predic t the cell counts of the dinoflagellate Karlodinium micrum from water quality features \(temperature, salinity, and dissolved oxygen\.  The results \(Fig. 6\ Gaussian processes using a Gaussian kernel perform just as well as linear regression does for predicting cell counts  Fig. 6. Predicted log cell counts of Karlodinium micrum  from temperature using th ree different algorithms mean, linear regression \(linR\and Gaussian process GP\.  The points used for training and testing the algorithms are depicted as g reen dots and cyan asterisks respectively 


 5 We also investigated an ad aptive sampling approach using the Regional Ocean Modeling Sy stem \(ROMS\odel of the Chesapeake Bay using Gaussian processes to select positions for obtaining sensor measurements to optimally characterize the distributio n of salinity from known temperature data.  The results \(Fig. 7\how the advantage of the adaptive sampling appro ach over random selection of sampling positions. The mutual information algorithm achieves low RMS error after selecting only a few points to sample and asymptotically approaches the minimum faster than the random selection algorithm [10    Figure 7. Root Mean Square \(RMS\ror in selecting points using the Gaussian process-based adaptive sampling approach with the mutual information metric vs. using random selection  The next step in our analysis will be to integrate MODIS Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer data \(Chlorophyll A and sea surface temperature\ with the DNR cell-count data for HAB prediction Visual rhodamine dye mapping Since HABs are sporadic ocean phenomena, we are using rhodamine WT \(water-tracing dye [1 as a HAB s u r r ogat e  for initial experiments and tests. Because some of the TAOSF system testing and validation is done using an aerial imaging platform \(discussed later\me necessary to correlate aerial dye visibility to dye concentration in the water. This was done by imaging dye diffusion and visibility in a local pond in Pittsburgh [12  The pond, called Schenley Park Lake \(Fig. 8\, has a surface area of about 9900m 2 and a depth conservatively estimated at 1m. The first dye patch, w ith a concentration of 5ppm was dispersed from a location at the lower right of the pond and is shown after 20 minutes of dispersion, when it covered an area of approximately 65m 2 At this time, the patch was still quite visible from an overhead camera, but not nearly as intense as the second patch. The latter patch also with an initial dye surface concentration of 5ppm, is shown dispersed over a 30m 2 area.  Surface water samples were taken of each patch at measured time intervals and were analyzed using the same fluorometers used on the OASIS platform. This allows us to establish a baseline for correlating camera visibility with in-water concentration measurements  Figure 8. Two dye patches si mulating algal blooms. The first \(earlier\patch is shown on the lower right, while the second \(subsequent\patch is on the upper right. The test was conducted at the Schenley Park Lake in Pittsburgh Automated Dye Patch Mapping In the TAOSF system, we use the Inference Grid \(IG\ model to represent multiple spatially- and temporally-varying properties. The Inference Grid is a probabilistic multiproperty spatial lattice model \(a Markov Random Lattice 13, 14 wh ere sen s or info rm atio n is stored in sp atially an d  temporally registered form, and which is used for both scientific inferences and for vehicle mission planning. The information in each Inference Grid cell is represented as a stochastic vector, and metrics such as entropy are used to measure the uncertainty in the IG [15, 16 As part of the HAB sensing and characterization effort, we have developed an initial automated dye patch mapping system using the IG model.  Overhead imagery of the pond was processed to perform automated cluster identification using an unsupervised clustering algorithm. Using a reference dye spectral signature, the dye dispersion patch was identified and segmented in the image, and a probabilistic metric was associated with the distance to the reference signature in the spectral space. The results for a single pond image are shown in Fig. 9, and for a sequence of images in Fig. 10  


 6  Figure 9. The left image shows the first patch in Fig. 8 after several minutes of dye dispersion. The center plot shows the RGB intensity distributions of the left image automated image segmentation is done using an unsupervised clustering algorithm. The map on the right shows an Inference Grid with the spatially distributed probabilities of dye being present in the water   Figure 10. Automated dye patch extent mapping and characterization using the Inference Grid. The images in the bottom row show the first patch in Fig. 8 dispersing over time. The evolution of the corresponding Inference Grid is shown in the upper row, where the spatially and temporally varying dye presence probabilities are shown. The images and maps are rotated counterclockwise \(relative to Figs. 8 and 9 presentation convenience  6  A ERIAL F IELD T EST O BSERVATION P LATFORM  One important component in the field testing and validation process of the overall TAOSF system is the ability to have a bird’s eye” view of how an al gal bloom \(or a dye patch\is moving and dispersing in the water, and how the OASIS boats are responding to this process. To address this need we developed a low-altitude aerial system carrying an avionics package with a recording GPS, barometric altimeter, magnetic compass, serial data link, wide-angle color camera, and transmitter [1 0, 12  F i g 11 de pi ct s a  typical deployment and testing configuration, with the OASIS platforms investigating a dye-simulated bloom, and an aerostat carrying the syst em observation and validation avionics package tethered to a human-piloted chase boat  Figure 11. Concept of the TAOSF field validation system: an overhead aerostat \(an unmanned blimp tethered to a manned field operations vessel\ provides a global visual overview  of three OASIS platforms and a patch of rhodamine dye. The overhead map is shown on the right The TAOSF aerial observation platform is a 6m long, 2m diameter aerostat \(Fig. 12\The aerostat is an unmanned helium-filled, lighter-than-air \(LTA\limp on a tether. In its current configuration the system is flown unpowered. The onboard avionics package \(Fig. 13\ is gimballed, and includes a GPS, a barometric altimeter, a magnetic compass a serial wireless data link, a wide-angle color camera, and a video transmitter. The total weight is 700g We emphasize that the aerial observation platform is not currently being used to help identify and track HABs rather, its purpose is to provid e a global view of our field tests to assess the in situ performance of the TAOSF system   Figure 12. The TAOSF aerost at observation platform The aerostat is an unmanned, lighter-than-air \(LTA unpowered blimp on a tether. Helium is used for buoyancy. The avionics package \(Fig. 13\s mounted below the aerostat  


 7  Figure 13. The gimballed TAOSF observation platform avionics package includes a GPS, a barometric altimeter, a magnetic compas s, a serial wireless data link, a wide-angle color camera, and a video transmitter  7  I NTEGRATED S YSTEM T ESTING AND V ALIDATION  The first integrated in-water tests of the TAOSF architecture were conducted on 27 June and 21 August, 2007. The following discussion focuses on the 21 August test, where a single OASIS boat was used, the aerial observation platform was deployed, and rhodamine dye tracks were laid by a manned chase boat. The aerostat platform was also tethered to the chase boat \(Fig. 15\ the sequence we show initial results from this test A forward view from the OASIS camera was displayed on the remote operator workstation \(Fig. 14\wing teleoperation of the boat if necessary.  The rhodamine tracks laid are shown in Fig. 15  Figure 14. Forward view from the OASIS boat, as seen from the remote operator workstation   Figure 15. Aerial view from the aerostat observation platform. The chase boat \(with aerostat tether\ in the upper part of the image, the OASIS boat in the lower part, and the rhodamine dye tracks laid by the chase boat are visible towards the right part of the image A spiral search pattern was planned and executed by the ASF component of the TAOSF system \(Figs. 16 – 18\he operator interface is based in part on the Multi-Robot Operator Control Unit \(MOCU\7 it d i sp lays th e b o at  trajectory, telemetry and positi on within a satellite map \(Fig 16\. The trajectories of both the OASIS boat and the aerostat test observation platform are shown in Fig. 17, and the measured rhodamine dye concen trations along the search path in Fig. 18   Figure 16.  The Multi-Robo t Operator Control Unit MOCU\, part of SSA. The right pane shows the spiral search pattern planned and executed by the ASF component of TAOSF. The upper left pane displays the engineering and science telemetry from the OASIS boat, while the lower left pane shows the position of the OASIS platform overlaid on a satellite view of the operating area  


 8  Figure 17. A satellite view of the August 21 field test area. The GPS track of the OASIS boat is shown in red while the aerostat observatio n path \(obtained from the onboard avionics\wn in white  Figure 18. A slanted view of the ocean area where the test was conducted. Th e measured rhodamine concentrations are shown as a vertical “ribbon” along the route taken by the OASIS boat \(as shown in Figs. 16 and 17 8  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper describes a telesupervision architecture for multiple autonomous platforms and its application to the particular problem of the detection of harmful algal blooms Initial work has concentrated on the integration of subsystems developed by the collaborating organizations, in the development of HAB and dye observation systems, and in building an aerial platform to allow observation of the TAOSF system and the OASIS bo ats from the air. In-water tests have demonstrated the viability of the MARTA architecture as instan tiated in TAOSF One of our key next steps is an extended end-to-end test in which multiple OASIS platforms map a rhodamine-dye HAB surrogate under human telesupervision. Over the next year we plan to increase the number of platforms, develop and deploy adaptive sensing algorithms, and continue deploying the TAOSF system in the Chesapeake Bay estuary Because of their in-situ observation capabilities and resolution, as well as their adaptivity, telesupervised autonomous surface vehicles are crucial to the sensor web for Earth science. The MARTA telesupervision architecture underlying TAOSF is broadly applicable to a wide variety of domains beyond HABs, incl uding ecological forecasting water management, carbon management, disaster management, coastal management, homeland security, and planetary exploration A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work was supported by NASA award NNX06AF27G Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”, granted under the Advanced Information Systems Technology program of NASA’s Earth Systems Technology Office ESTO\he TAOSF project is a collaboration among Carnegie Mellon University CMU Flight Center \(GSFC\, NASA Goddard’s Wallops Flight Facility \(WFF\mergent Space Technologies, Inc. \(EST and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\ifornia Institute of Technology. Work on the OASIS platforms is conducted by Emergent Space Technologies, Inc., EG&G, and Zinger Enterprises under award NA03NOS4730220 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA\, U.S. Department of Commerce R EFERENCES    G Po d n ar J. M  D o lan   A. El fes M  B e rge r m a n, H  B Brown, and A. D. Guisewite. "Human Telesupervision of a Fleet of Autonomous Robots for Safe and Efficient Space Exploration". Proceedings of the 1st Annual Conference on Human-Robot Interaction \(HRI-2006\e City, UT USA, March 2-4, 2006   E Halbe r stam L. Na v a rr oSerm ent, R. Cone scu   S Mau, G. Podnar, A. D. Guisewite, H. B. Brown, A. Elfes, J M. Dolan, and M. Bergerman. "A Robot Supervision Architecture for Safe and E fficient Space Exploration and Operation." Proceedings of the 10th Biennial International Conference on Engineering, Construction, and Operations in Challenging Environments, Houston, TX, USA, March 5-8 2006    A. El fes J. M   Dola n G Po d n ar S M a u, a n d M   Bergerman. "Safe and Effici ent Robotic Space Exploration with Tele-Supervised Autonomous Robots." Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium 2006, Stanford, CA, USA March 27-29, 2006   G Po d n ar J. D o lan  A  Elfes, a nd M  Berge r m a n  Human Telesupervision of Very Heterogeneous Planetary Robot Teams”. In Proceedi ngs of the AIAA Space 2007 Conference, Long Beach, CA, 18 – 20 September 2007 


 9  5 Wood s Ho le Ocean ographic In stitu tion    http://www.whoi.edu  6 and  Wild life Research  In stitu te http://research.myfwc.com    No rth w est Fishe r ies Sci e nce Ce nter Harm ful Al ga l Blooms Program http://www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/hab/index.html  8 ing Harm fu l Alg a l Blo o m s in th e Ch esap eak e Bay   http://coastwatch.noaa.gov/cbay_hab  9 a l Transform a tio n fo r Sp atio tem p o r al  Data Mining", Journal of Knowledge and Information Systems \(KAIS\ol. 11, No. 5, 2007, Springer  1 J. M   D o l a n G Po d n ar  S. St a n cl i ff E  Li n J H o sl er T. Ames, J. Moisan, T. Moisan, J. Higinbotham, and A Elfes. “Harmful Algal Bloo m Characterization via the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. Proceedings of the 2007 NASA Science and Technology Conference NSTC-07\ College Park, MD, June 19 – 21 2007  1 Tec hni cal  Dat a S h eet   http://www.coleparmer.com/ca talog/Msds/msdbes002.pdf  1 A. El fes J. Dol a n an d G. P o d n ar T he Tel e su per v i s ed Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. In Proceedings of the Conference on Atmospheric and Environmental Remote Sensing Data Processing and Utilization III: Readiness for GEOSS, 2007 SPIE Symposium on Optical Engineering and Applications. San Diego, CA, 26 – 30 August 2007  1 A El fes  Usi n g  Occ u pancy  Gri d s f o r M obi l e R o bot Perception and Navigation”. IEEE Computer Magazine Special Issue on Autonomous Intelligent Machines, v. 22, n 6, June 1989  1 A. El fes Dy nam i c C ont rol o f R o b o t P e rcept i o n Usi n g Stochastic Spatial Models. In G. Schmidt \(ed.\ation Processing in Mobile Robots, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, July 1991  15 A. Elfes Mu lti-Sou r ce Sp atial Fu si o n Using Bayesi an Reasoning. In M. A. Abidi and R. C. Gonzalez \(eds.\, Data Fusion in Robotics and Machine Intelligence, Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1992  1 A  El fes  R ob ot  Navi gat i on  I n t e gr a t i ng Pe rce p t i o n Environment Constraints and Task Execution Within a Probabilistic Framework”. In Reasoning with Uncertainty in Robotics, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 1996  1 B r uch  M  H  T he m u l t i rob o t  o p era t or c o nt r o l u n i t  MOCU\," SPIE Proc. 6230: Unmanned Systems Technology VIII, Defense Security Symposium, Orlando FL, April 18-20, 2006   B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Alberto Elfes is a Principal Member of Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Systems Section at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\He leads projects in the areas of autonomous aerial vehicles for planetary exploration coordination and control of robot/robot and robot/human teams and space mission planning and architecture optimization. He has held positions as Director of the Automation Institute, Brazil, and as a research scientist at th e IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, the Engineering Design Research Center and the Robotics Institute, CMU. Additionally, he has held university professorships in Brazil and Germany. He has an E.Eng. degree in Electronics Engineering and an M.Sc degree in Computer Science from the Aeronautics Institute of Technology \(ITA\razil, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineer ing, with concentration in Robotics, from Carnegie-Mellon University. Dr. Elfes has over 100 publications in international journals, conferences and books, and has lectured ex tensively in North America Europe, Brazil and Japan. He is a recipient of the Mercator Professorship Award of the German Research Foundation DFG   


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


