Software Independent Verification and Validation for Spacecraft at JAXA Naohiko Kohtake Atsushi Katoh Naoki Ishihama Yuko Miyamoto Tomomi Kawasaki and Masafumi Katahira JAXA's Engineering Digital Innovation Center Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Sengen 2-1-1 Tsukuba Ibaraki 305 8505 Japan 81 0 868 2780 kohtake.naohiko jaxa.jp Abstract In order to achieve mission success with more'2 demanding mission requirements and more complex onboard software our software independent verification and validation IV&V has been applied 
to various spacecraft software programs such as software on satellites ground stations and the Japanese Experimental Module JEM of the International Space Station ISS The malfunction procedure in the operations data file for JEM is also the target for applying software IV&V Suitable software IV&V can be performed for each spacecraft throughout the entire development life cycle The objectives for software IV&V activity are the following applying suitable software IV&V to each spacecraft creating new software IV&V technologies for 
spacecraft and spreading new software engineering technologies based on our software IV&V to development teams and contractors This paper introduces our software IV&V activities and several examples to confirm that our activities are effective and efficient for spacecraft TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION 1 2 SOFTWARE IV&V PROCESS 2 3 EXAMPLES OF SOFTWARE IV&V APPLICATIONS.3 4 DISCUSSION 6 5 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 7 REFERENCES 7 BIOGRAPHY 8 1 INTRODUCTION Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency 
JAXA is developing and operating various kinds of spacecraft such as launchers satellites modules of ISS and a transfer vehicle for ISS to observe the earth and the universe use the environment in space and explore space technologies 1 Each new spacecraft project comes up against more demanding mission requirements and increased pressure to reduce costs and shorten schedule To develop the new spacecraft the role of software related to the spacecraft is becoming more important Consequently the 
complexity of the software is increasing dynamically to meet the mission requirements 1 11-4244-1488-1/08/$25.00 
C 2008 
IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1393 Version4 Updated 2007:12:18 To maintain success of each spacecraft mission by minimizing risks by using increasingly complex software we have been applying software IV&V to most spacecraft at JAXA for more than ten years Our software IV&V activity started in 1995 as a part of ISS program activity with related space agencies Since then our software IV&V has been applied to 
software related to the ISS program as well as to various spacecraft software programs such as software on satellites and ground stations Currently JAXA applies software IV&V to most large scale spacecraft Missions To maximize the probability of success of each spacecraft mission by minimizing risks in complex software our objectives for software IV&V activity are as follows 1 Applying suitable software IV&V to each spacecraft 2 Creating new software IV&V technologies for spacecraft 3 Spreading 
new software engineering technologies based on our software IV&V to spacecraft developers Organization The JAXA's Engineering Digital Innovation Center JEDI Center was established in October 2005 with the Systems Engineering Office The aim of each department is applying and spreading digital technologies or systems engineering philosophy to all JAXA projects to improve the development and operation for each space system The JEDI Center develops digital technologies related to simulation databases supercomputing and software engineering Our software 
IV&V is mainly performed by the JEDI Center software engineering team The Safety and Mission Assurance S&MA Department manages system and software assurance for all projects Guidelines and standards such as software assurance standards are established and revised by the S&MA Department Scale Our software IV&V has been performed on most international projects such as JEM and the H-IIA Transfer Vehicle HTV and several spacecraft projects that requested an expense budget for it Most large-scale satellite 1 


projects have applied our software IV&V and demand is increasing from various projects in JAXA The number of staff related to this activity is also increasing because of the demand from contractors and JAXA 2 SOFTWARE IV&V PROCESS Our software IV&V is conducted with various technologies to ensure that the right product is produced and that the product is correctly produced by using the software development life cycle for each spacecraft These processes are applicable for spacecraft complexity including the software Software IV V Definition For performing our software IV&V some definitions are in order  Project The team designing and developing the spacecraft or its subsystems  Software In our activity on-board software installed in spacecraft and ground stations are the targets for applying software IV&V because software errors can cause the loss of human life or the spacecraft Software programs that support development and testing such as simulation software are not our target  Independent To acquire unbiased analysis and effective verification and validation from the different points of view of the developers our activity maintains full financial managerial and technical independence from the projects and from the contractors who develop the target spacecraft and its software Experts who are not in charge of development of the target spacecraft may join our software IV&V team if needed  Verification This process determines whether or not the products at each software development phase fulfill the requirements established during the previous phase  Validation The evaluation of software in its development cycle to ensure compliance with system and software requirements Process Flow Figure 1 shows our software IV&V process flow with three main steps criticality and risk analysis plan and assess Assessment report reviews and software improvement and testing indicated in the gray box are performed by the project Based on criticality and risk analysis for the system and software a software IV&V plan is established according to the software IV&V guideline This plan is revised if necessary at each phase The assessment is performed with this plan An assessment report is published after assessment at each phase The initial criticality and risk analysis is performed for the target software and the target system The first analysis is the most important and requires the expenditure of much more time and cost The criticality and risk analysis for software is conducted at each development phase to confirm the scope and level of the subsequent software IV&V activities We usually start by reviewing artifacts such as an operational scenario and a specification document produced by the project When the project adopts specialized technology an expert in that technology joins in our activities as an observer The interview with project staff is essential to understand the design philosophy and the staff's concerns for mission success Our database of lessons learned from software IV&V on previous spacecraft is also effective in some cases During the analysis Fault Tree Analysis FTA is typically used to identify criticality and risk in software function in the requirement phase software components in the design phase and software units in the manufacturing phase The software IV&V plan is established and proposed to the project based on the above criticality and risk analysis The project team and our software IV&V team discuss the assessment scope and level in the proposed plan and consider available resources such as cost schedule and technologies Sometimes new technologies and tools from our research are applied to the software IV&V to improve our process and to evaluate our research for actual use Attributes andActivities We have developed 81 attributes and 121 activities that apply to spacecraft software Each attribute such as consistency between operational scenario and requirement specification timing consistency and the adequacy of handling exceptions is categorized according to the following seven basic viewpoints and considered with reference to ISO/IEC 9126 2  Compatibility with mission requirements safety requirements and operational requirements  Software Product Correctness  Interface Specification Correctness  Testing and Verification Completeness  Traceability and Consistency  Software Fault-Proneness  Validity of Commercial Product 2 


Criticality  Risk Analysis iare IV&V arned Daltabase I 1 itaas  rt Reviews and rnent  Test Figure 1 Software IV&V Process Flow The activities are chosen corresponding to the stakeholder requirements software features such as criticality complexity and size and the attributes at each development phase Each activity consists of the three component work assignments document review analysis and model checking Several examples of activities are also listed for each component work assignment Document Review Reviewing documents to determine consistency completeness adequacy and suitability of the target software v Consistency Analysis Completeness Analysis and Interface Analysis Model Checking Checking whether the behavior of the target software modeled by state graph satisfies temporal logic v Real-time Model Checking v Validity Model Checking Reachability Model Checking v Requirement review design review code review test data review and problem report review v Review the target with Attitude and Orbit Control System AOCS and Data Handling System DH software checklist from lessons learned and Voyager and Galileo checklist 3 Analysis Evaluating the target software comprehensively with common criteria v Criticality Analysis Risk Analysis Design Analysis Static Code Analysis Dynamic Code Analysis and Traceability Analysis 3 EXAMPLES OF SOFTWARE IV&V APPLICATIONS Our software IV&V has been applied to approximately ten spacecraft and thirty spacecraft subsystems to date Fatal problems were found in several systems and warnings to improve were found in many systems Software IV&V research deepens our experience and develops our techniques based on the needs of spacecraft projects and case studies and it supports current and future spacecraft missions Existing technologies and tools are adopted and modified to establish more effective software IV&V For example we have developed a test environment for 3 4 U m 1.1 L c 4 E 20 Q Q lwk Z  Artifact Ineve ihPoetSaf Softw e.g Document Source Code rjc t Lessons Lei  Plan  L Software IV&V Guideline Mtos&TosD    Software IV&V Plan   Assess    Assessment Repor        Software Improven I~~i EE3-E--Artifac eg ocmnESuc oe  Ipoe  Ases etREr              


generating test cases conducting tests and comparing test results This new test environment is based on existing model checking tools and modifications of these tools Our software IV&V has contributed many improvements to spacecraft software For example consistency and completeness of state transition corresponding to the software requirements specification were analyzed for various projects with our techniques Numerous malfunction operations of JEM were verified comprehensively These were confirmed manually by the project For several projects fault analysis was performed during or after development This analysis was fed back to the ongoing project as well as new projects The following are concrete examples of our software IV&V applications for the JEM The JEM is the Japanese contribution to the ISS program and it consists of a package of three enclosed modules and an exposed platform to be attached to the station's outside truss for space environment experiments as shown in Figure 2 Figure 2 Illustration of ISS left and JEM right Consistency and Completeness Analysis of State Transition Corresponding to JEM Software Requirements Specification Consistency and completeness of state transitions corresponding to software requirements specifications for JEM were analyzed Finding errors early in development is essential to minimize cost and impacts on system design To perform this analysis we developed a state transition matrix generator that generates the matrix from software requirements specifications automatically to provide comprehensive and uniform translation from the specifications The flow is shown in Figure 3 First this generator translates the specification to a natural language model with parts such as nouns verbs and blanks Second parameters such as state values and input/output devices are extracted from the model and categorized Finally a state transition matrix is generated with the extracted parameters Requirement Specification If Command A is Natural Language Model Command A ON System Mode Mode B Then Device C Start  extract  categorize inpuit signal vaIlue Command A ON state vaLue System Mode Mode B Device C Start generate State Transition Matrix Figure 3 State Transition Matrix Generation After generating a state transition matrix the SpecTRM system 4 was applied to analyze consistency and completeness SpecTRM is a CAD system for analyzing state-machine-based requirement models This system emphasizes finding errors in consistency and completeness at the requirements phase With the above analysis several inconsistencies and incomplete state transitions were identified concerning the software requirements specification Figure 4 shows an example of an inconsistency case in this analysis The specification defines that  If Command X is sent during Mode A the mode shall be moved to Mode B  If Event Y is detected during Mode A the mode shall be moved to Mode C In this case our analysis found that if Command X is sent and Event Y is detected during Mode A the mode will be moved to either Mode B or Mode C An example of an incompleteness case is also shown in Figure 5 The specification defines that only  If Event Z is detected during Mode D the mode shall be moved to Mode A Our analysis uncovered the incompleteness that the state transition is not defined if Event Z is not detected during Mode D 4 sent during Mode B Device C shall be started   translate 


E-D Pwr_Fail Figure 7 UPAAL Model 5 Transition Condition Alarm occurs Water Pressure Abnormal JOOA=lndicate B2 Sensor Failure B4 causes of unusual accidents The aim of this analysis is to I E<>JOOA=Indicate JOIOActive Verification  L __50_ il LE 50a E~~~~~~~~B C S70 Active_ AsLaMid I State B Mode A=ON True Command X=ON True Mode A=ON True Event Y=ON True Figure 4 Inconsistency Example State A Transition Condition Mode D=ON True Event Z=ON True automata with clock and data variables Figure 7 shows our verification flow with an UPPAAL model In this case A is greater than B is written as A=GT B and A is less than or equal to B is written as A=LEBB One reason we adopted UPPAAL was that its fine graphical interface supports graphical and textual representations of system descriptions The graphical and textual data can be compared to MAL ODF intuitively and support technical discussion with project staff We provided queries for verification from JEM FMEA sheets written by the project All assumed failure modes and telemetry data related to each failure mode are described on the FMEA sheet as shown in Table 1 In this case control failure occurs and telemetry items JOOA JOO1 and J002 have changed If MAL ODF can identify the cause accurately the flow in Figure 7 comes to B4_D_Ctlr_Fail with the provided query B1 Figure 5 Incompleteness Example Consistency and completeness analyses of spacecraft software state transitions are complicated and difficult to do manually Finding errors late in development increases the probability of adverse impacts on system design costs and schedules With this example we confirmed this technique is efficient for analyzing the validity of JEM MAL ODF at the early phase Validity Model Checking for JEM Malfunction Operation Data File The JEM Malfunction Operational Data File MAL ODF describes flow charts for was manually validated for each telemetry item without cause decision and action procedures in unusual outbreak situations during JEM operations It is validated by applying cause with MAL ODF flow charts and telemetry data from JEM In this figure JOO an actual JEM For checking the validity model an integrated tool for modeling simulation and verification of real-time systems modeled cause At the project this MAL ODF and JOOI==LE_50 are telemetry items and the end box of each flow describes the estimated as networks of Figure 6 JEM MAL ODF r Controller Failure our software IV&V MAL ODF will be used with telemetry data from JEM to the ground control center to identify the we built models from MAL ODF to perform on UPPAAL tool 5 The UPPAAL is and J002==LE_50 and ensure comprehensive compliance between MAL ODF and system implementations Figure 6 shows a MAL ODF example In this case water pressure is abnormal Flight controllers at the ground control center identify the 


4 DISCUSSION Table 1 FMEA Sheet Failure Telemetry Before After Mode e Failure Failure JOOA Normal Indicate Controller Jooi T50 l50 Failure J002 T50 l50 Joio Active Active We built a simulation model with 342 Decision Boxes and 532 Transition Conditions from the MAL ODF A total of 1104 queries for verification was generated from JEM FMEA sheets by a script that can extract parameters from the sheet automatically We also developed a verifier that realizes automatic verification with XML output from the simulation model and the queries by another script As a consequence our analysis identified three types of cases that may fail in cause decision in unusual outbreak situations as follows  The case that multiple failures might be identified from one caution  The case that one failure might be identified from multiple cautions  The case that cause decision might be not appropriate At the project the MAL ODF was designed so that a unique failure is identified from a unique caution Most processes except for building the simulation model are performed automatically with scripts It took approximately 78 hours to build the simulation model by software IV&V staff and 7 hours to verify it with a computer with Windows XP Professional a 3.2 GHz CPU and 3.25 GB of memory It takes about 85 hours to complete the entire analysis We confirmed this technique is efficient to validate the JEM MAL ODF Software IV&V is also contributing to the success of various spacecraft missions at each phase in development For example in the design phase we found out that if a loud noise were received by an onboard computer of a certain satellite this computer would do particular processing without noise checking In another case the failure causes were found in the manufacturing phase of several satellites with the database and experience regarding software IV&V for each target satellite Our software IV&V technique has been applied to various spacecraft still in development We are considering several technical issues and possible future directions Benefits of Software IV V Software IV&V increases the ability to see and understand the details of the systems and software developed for a spacecraft It provides high confidence in software reliability and reduces total software development costs and schedules when applied at the early development phase Software IV&V has been demonstrated to be an effective technique to reduce cost and schedule risk in the development of complex software systems Technology Transfer In some cases we cannot access development data such as source code for security reasons In these cases our software IV&V tools are used by the developers They set up the tools in their developmental environment and provide us output data from the tools We can perform software IV&V in this way depending on the circumstances in individual cases Moreover most developers become interested in our techniques via the exchange Several technologies that were developed during our software IV&V were adopted by developers as a result Effective Planning Currently our software IV&V techniques are selected for each target system or subsystem based on our criticality and risk analyses However there is a large number of techniques and each technique has particular costs advantages and disadvantages associated with it We have observed that the selection of which techniques to employ and the order in which they are applied have significant impacts on overall risk and cost reduction 6 Empirical assessment is one of our approaches and this approach aids in the strategic planning of software IV&V activities to improve effectiveness and lower cost Development of IV V Technology Software technologies are improved dynamically and various technologies implemented previously in hardware are shifting to the software domain On the other hand software modeling and simulation technologies are improving To expand software IV&V applications to various spacecraft and other systems we are developing related technologies One of them is simulation technology Simulators are essential tools for on-board software development and validation However most simulators are developed and used for each phase independently and they cannot support users over multiple phases Users have to prepare appropriate simulators according to their needs Therefore it is difficult to make practical use of simulators 6 


throughout the complete spacecraft lifecycle To solve this problem a consistent simulation framework is essential for software IV&V at each phase in the spacecraft lifecycle This framework will guide our future software IV&V activities 7 Software process improvement 8 modelbased development and avionics architecture research are also underway Technical Collaborations International collaboration with other IV&V facilities such as NASA 9 and ESA 10 is also essential to improve our software IV&V process and to perform international collaborative missions Our technologies are open to the public in the space community and spacecraft development teams and contractors can use them Actually several technologies have been adopted already by some teams and contractors Currently these technologies are under consideration for adoption in the automobile and electronic controls and systems domains Effectiveness has already been recognized in several systems and development phases Our software IV&V is under consideration for insertion into the software quality assurance process at JAXA 5 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK To help each spacecraft mission to be successful by minimizing risks in complex software we have applied software IV&V to various spacecraft systems and subsystems in JAXA We are now developing and implementing techniques for software IV&V to achieve appropriate and tailored levels of mission criticality and risk for each spacecraft The software IV&V will be applied to provide the necessary scope and levels of assurance through the development REFERENCES 1 JAXA Vision JAXA 2025Web site http://www.jaxa.jp/about/2025/index_e.html 2 ISO/IEC9126 Software engineering Product quality 3 Robyn R Lutz Targeting Safety-Related Errors During Software Requirement Analysis Journal of Systems and Software Vol.34 Issue.3 p.223-230 1996 4 Nancy G Leveson Jon D Reese Mats P.E.Heimdahl SpecTRM A CAD System for Digital Automation Digital Avionics Systems Conference Proceedings 17th DASC The AIAA/IEEE/SAE Vol.1 B52/1-B52/8 1998 5 Johan Bengtsson Kim G Larsen Fredrik Larsson Paul Pettersson Wang Yi UPPAAL a Tool Suite for Automatic Verification of Real-Time Systems In Proceeding of the 4th DIMACS Workshop on Verification and Control of Hybrid Systems 1995 6 Yuko Miyamoto Haruka Nakao Dan Port Strategic Planning of IV&V for Space System Software Data Systems in Aerospace 2007 7 Naohiko Kohtake Yuko Miyamoto Masafumi Katahira Needs Analysis for Simulation Framework throughout Spacecraft Life Cycle 9th International Workshop on Simulation for European Space Programmes 2006 8 Fabio Bella Dirk Hamann Juirgen Munch Masa Katahira Yuko Miyamoto Makoto Shizunaga Software Process Definition for Multi-organizational Development in the Aerospace Domain International Conference on Software  Systems Engineering and their Applications 2006 9 Frederick D Gregory NASA Software Independent Verification and Validation IV&V An Upfront Approach to Mission Success Data Systems in Aerospace 1997 10 Frode Hogerg Narve Mjos Poul Gougaard Ricardo Maia Leslie Baldwin Patricia Rodriguez Kjeld Hjortnaes ISVV Process  Facility Project Data Systems in Aerospace 2005 7 


BIOGRAPHY Dr Naohiko Kohtake is an associated senior engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He was engaged in research and development on avionics systems fr H-IIA launch vehicle at NASDA and ubiquitous cmuting systems at Keio University He was also involved in research for on-board software at European Space Agency and user interface at Sony Computer Science Laboratories as a visiting researcher Presently he is working on software IV&V and related research He received B.E M.E and Ph.D from Keio University He is a member of the IEEE and a visiting lecturer at University of Tsukuba Atsushi Katoh is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He worked on realtime operating system at Fujitsu as a member of the Real-time Operating System Nucleus TRON project and software IV&V support at Japan Manned Space Systems Corporation He is involved in software IV&V and several software verification and validation research projects He received B.E M.E from Kumamoto University Tomomi Kawasaki is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA She worked on several space science researches at Institute of Space and Astronautical Science ISAS Se is involved in software IV&V and FPGA quality assurance research Masafumi Katahira is a senior engineer and a team leader of the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA Hie worked on satellite operations and development of JEM and H-IIA launch vehicle at NASDA and complex systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology He is engaged in software IV&V software process improvement and real-time operating system for spacecraft He received B.E from Aoyama Gakuin University and M.E from Florida Institute of Technology He is a member of the IEEE Naoki Ishihama is an associated senior engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He worked on technical support for software development of several satellites at NASDA He is involved in development of real-time operating system for spacecraft and software IV&V He received B.E from Keio University and M.E from University of Tokyo He is a member of the IEEE Yuko Miyamoto is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA She is working on software process improvement and software IV&V She received B.S M.S from University of Tsukuba 8 


  9 corrections. With several concurrent development processes, ops personnel could be members of more than one virtual team simultaneously. Various strategies such as sequence specific email aliases and automated software configuration were devel oped to ease confusion from sequence to sequence Aftermarket and SOP Update 227Since the initial round of integration and implementation was begun two years before reaching Saturn, a two-step update phase was included to incorporate new discoveries, respond to instrument performance changes, and design to the latest navigation ephemerides. The record of planned activities from SOP was retained in the CIMS database. During Aftermarket, the previous integration was revisited and revised. SOP Update during which the commanding for pointing and for management of shared resources such as power and data volume was reworked and revalidated, followed Aftermarket Sequencing 227 The final sequence development phase Science and Sequence Update Process \(SSUP began 10 weeks before start of execu tion. The commanding carried forward from SOPU received its final refinements and validation. Instrument internal commanding was added during this stage of development, expanding the roster of participants as the focus shifted from science design to instrument operation. The vector commands for attitude control were also generated and merged into the sequence providing the first realistic estimate of sequence size Since the sequence contains tens of thousands of commands, ensuring its validity was laborious. Because the command sequence represents merged commanding from each of the instruments a nd from each of the spacecraft subsystems, configuration ma nagement was required to insure that all parties were aware of changes potentially impacting them and that no changes were made without appropriate validation. Late in this stage of development changes were restricted to those related to maintaining flight assets health and safety. Novel or particularly complex activities were simulated in one or more of the available testbeds. The highest fide lity modeling was accomplished with a hardware-in-the-loop simulator, the Integrated Test Laboratory \(ITL\with engineering versions of the flight processors and flight software the same as on-board the spacecraft Over the lengthy time to plan the activities and develop the commands, the precise timing of geometric opportunities sometimes shifted. Several constructs to accommodate those shifts were introduced. In the one employed during SSUP called a ground movable block, a cluster of observations was shifted together within a window to reflect a timing change in a key event such as closest approach to a body Execution 227Uplink of the background sequence and the loads of instrument expanded blocks required several DSN passes since the files were large and had to be verified once on board. Days that included other Earth-pointed activity such as OTMs were avoided. This expanded the overlap of the old and new background sequences over enough days that careful memory management was required to fit both in onboard memory. In some cases, the new sequence was too large and needed to be split in to two pieces with the second uplinked as the first piece neared completion Once the sequence was executi ng, additional real-time commands and mini-sequences were uplinked for timing adjustments, OTMs, and other engineering activities requiring state verification be fore issuance. Instrument internal commands could be also be uplinked directly without involvement of the sequence team at JPL using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP During execution, there were two ways of accommodating late changes to timing or geometry. One, a live moveable block, was similar to the ground version except that the size of the timing shift was not determined until after the sequence had begun executing. The other, called a live vector update, redirected the pointing in inertial space by redefining the vectors that control attitude. Although this was a straightforward mechanism for altering pointing in response to later, better knowledge of spacecraft position the process took several days and considerable effort. So extensive analysis was require d to carefully place potential updates where they could be most effective 6  L ESSONS L EARNED  Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed in overcoming those challenges should be of value to other deep space science missions, including the next Outer Planets flagship mission. Some of the lessons cover design decisions, both those that facilitated operations and should be carried forward for future consideration and those that complicated operations and should be avoided Others reflect ways in which flight experience differed from expectations. The discussion with resulting recommendations for future missions is divided into three categories: flight system, ground system, and programmatic Flight System Operational modes 227 Spacecraft operational modes were used to define a limited number of power mode states for the instruments and engineering subsystems. The states were developed in conjunction with project science and the engineering office to enable synergistic and cooperative science data collection. The use of operational modes eliminated the need to perform unique thermal modeling on a sequence-by-sequence basis. The thermal and power configurations for each of th e limited number of operational modes were fully tested only once for operational use. As such, there was no need to va lidate and check the power and 


  10 thermal state of the spacecraft during sequence development. However, on a very limited number of occasions, unique power m odes were necessary to accomplish the science data acquisition plan. In these situations, thermal modeling was necessary during sequence development. The a priori restriction on the use of unique power modes was limited to 5% of the total power modes used throughout the mission. In reality, the operational experience was about 1 Telemetry Modes 227 The volume of science data from the instrument is a function of the science data pickup rates specified for each instrument The science instruments can easily exceed the total bandwid th capabilities for the flight system, so the maximum data pickup rates need to be limited depending on the acquisition of the science plan The Cassini mission restricted th e instrument data rates by developing a limited number of telemetry modes where the maximum data pickup rate for each instrument is specified Project science worked with the science teams to develop the data pickup rate for each telemetry mode based on the synergistic science data collection Memory Management 227 The on-board memory management for Cassini significantly simplifies the managing of backgrounds seque nces and mini-sequences The flight software has the capability to run 64 different programs \(sequence, delayed action commands, etc once. This significantly simplifies the development and coordination required for the live updates and OTM processes. Also, the on-board memory management allows for sequences that are too large to fit in the on-board memory to be split into pieces Guidance and Control 227 The AACS subsystem uses an Internal Vector Propagation \(IVP\for pointing the spacecraft at the science targets of interest. The ephemerides for the spacecraft and the various science targets are stored as polynomial vectors and propagated on board the spacecraft for easy retrieval a nd updating. This approach significantly simplifies the ability to perform live pointing vector updates during sequence execution when the spacecraft knowledge to better known. An update to a single vector, or a couple of vectors is all that is needed to correctly target upcoming science observations Command and Data Handling 227 The Command and Data Subsystem \(CDS features that simplified operations. Among these were onboard science instrument data policing, ability to remove bad solid-state recorder \(SSR\odules, and a variety of onboard science modules that control science pointing commands \(e.g., limb scans, ring tracking, mosaics\and their corresponding instrument triggers. One of the more powerful capabilities on-board th e spacecraft was the data policing, which controls the amount of science instrument data that can be recorded on-board the solid state \(SSR recorder. Once data volume wa s allocated to the science instrument teams on a daily basis in the planning process data policing prevented any team from using more data than allocated if compression or instrument internal commanding goes awry. This eliminates any need for ground intervention to prevent SSR overruns during sequence execution High-priority science playback 227 Insuring receipt of highpriority science data in the event of a DSN station problem requires a priori commanding in the background sequence for dual, playbacks of this data. This requires a considerable amount of planning and SSR pointer management and commanding to achieve the protection of this data. A filebased SSR, and/or a CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP capability would have simplifie d the redundant playback of high-priority science data No Scan Platform 227 The lack of a scan platform significantly increased the operations complexity of the mission. Without a scan platform the pointing of the optical remote sensing instruments was coupled with the pointing of the fields and particles instruments. This more than doubled the competition for th e spacecraft pointing. In addition, the total number of pointing constraints \(radiators and boresights\ncreased, dramatically reducing the amount of the 4 002 steradians of the celestial sphere that is available for spacecraft pointing. Th is required significant negotiations of the spacecraft attitude, both primary and secondary, during the science integration and implementation process Navigation 227 The Cassini spacecraft is navigated to a specific B\267T and B\267R for each targeted flyby Fixing the targeted flyby tie points increased the overall delta-V required to fly the mission but significantly simplified the science operations involved with planning the science observations taken with 261 30 minutes from closest approach. The trajectory was allowed to deviate between the targeted flyby tie-points, which required pointing vector updates for science observations outside of the targeted flyby \(see Guidance and Control above for a discussion of live pointing vector updates Another simplified operational approach used by Cassini is the just-in-time development of the Orbit Trim Maneuvers OTMs\e OTMs are built using mini-sequences that are overlaid and executed during the earth-pointed downlink periods planned in the background sequence Ground System  Science Operations System 227 A critical planning tool used to enable distributed operations was the Cassini Information Management System \(CIMS\This tool uses a web-based interface to the Cassini database that contains the current state of the integrated scien ce and engineering plan. CIMS is used throughout the sequencing life cycle on the mission from initial planning through execution. This system allowed the science instrument teams from around the world 


  11 to request, review, and propose changes to the current state of the science plan Distributed Operations 227 Cassini distributed all aspects of the instrument operations to the science teams. Science Teams were required to develop the spacecraft commanding for pointing the spacecraft. Th is significantly complicated the interfaces and coordination required by the JPL science and sequencing teams. The distribution of internal instrument commanding and monitoring instrument health and safety worked well. Dedicated full-time operations personnel were required at all instrument sites. The liaison between the distributed sites and JPL required definition of a strong JPL Investigation Scientist \(i.e., Experiment Representative\le Distributed operations is a two-edged sword. Scientists personally worked operations and were better able to optimize for their science objectives. Their insight provided the feedback necessary to quickly respond to science discoveries in the science selection and uplink processes This allowed the operations team to capitalize on truly extraordinary opportunities to a degree not thought possible However, this was at the cost of doing science analysis and publishing science results Software Development 227 The Cassini mission deferred most of its ground software development until post launch. In fact, considerable effort was spent accelerating the development of the tools required to plan the Jupiter flyby observations in 2001. For the start of the science integration for Cassini\222s prime mission, many of the ground software planning tools were immature or unavailable. To compensate, homegrown tool development occurred at the instrument sites and within science planning. System engineering of these types of ground software tools was lacking. A better paradigm would have been to develop the operations and ground system\222s architecture, requirements models, and software to a level sufficient to support operations pre-launch. Sufficient project resources needed to be applied to Phase B/C/D development. The science planning tools should be developed to a sufficient level during these phases such that th ey can be used as part of evaluating the ground and flight system requirements and capabilities. Based on this evaluation, refinements could be made during cruise and throughout the mission to the unified ground and flight system architecture and software requirements Programmatic  Project Science 227The orbiter consists of 8 Principal Investigator \(PI\struments and 4 Facility Instrument with corresponding Team Leads. In a ddition, there are 5 different science discipline teams: Rings, Saturn, Titan, Icy Satellites and Magnetosphere. The Project Science leader ship needed to be highly involved in the tactical and strategic science planning activities. The consensus building culture used on Cassini was time consuming. The Project Science support staff should be funded adequately to allow the Project Scientist to participate in the integration process. Clear Project Science guidelines are very helpful Instruments 227 Instrument Flight Rule development must be mature pre-launch. Instruments should be designed to minimize impacts on the operations of the other instruments, e.g., radiator placement. Data compression internal to instruments is vital. For Cassini, the science instruments had internal sequencing memory for storing instrument commanding for upcoming sequence. This allowed the science teams th e ability to send real-time noninteractive instrument commands that bypass the sequencing process by using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP  In-flight Testing 227 The targeted gravity assist flybys provided a unique opportunity to exercise the ground system on realistic science data acquisition scenarios that simulates the operational environment during the Tour phase of the prime mission. This also had the advantage of providing the science instrument teams an opportunity to acquire useful science data for the purposes of instrument checkout and science data analysis. The in-flight exercises should use the processes, procedures, software, and ground system capabilities in the same manner, to the extent possible, as will be used during Tour and Orbital operations The entire flight team \(mission planning, science planning sequencing, spacecraft, naviga tion, and science teams should be fully engaged to provide the maximum benefit to the Project 7  C ONCLUSION  Even though Cassini was a NASA flagship mission maximizing the science return was a challenge to science planning operations. Decisions aimed at saving both prelaunch and operations costs added considerable complexity to both the spacecraft and the ground system. Among the key ones were removing the scan platform, opting for distributed operations rather than co-location, and delaying development of some flight software and most of the ground system until after launch Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed to overcome those challenges as presented in this paper should be of value to other deep space science missions.  Future missions should carefully consider the following advice 200  Pay careful attention to operational scenarios in development cost saving decisions, both spacecraft and ground. Additional, more sophisticated commanding constructs may be required in operations to compensate for lack of spacecraft capabilities. Ground management of stressed or 


  12 degraded spacecraft components will be labor intensive   R EFERENCES    N. Vanderm ey and B G. Paczkowski 223The C a ssi ni Huygens Mission Overview,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Andrew M i shki n and B a rbara Larsen 223Im p l e m e nt i ng Distributed Operations: A Comparison of Two Deep Space Missions,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006 3 Barb ara Larsen 223Bu ilt Bu t No t Used Need ed  Bu t No t Built: Ground System Guidance Based On CassiniHuygens Experience,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Spi l k er, Li nda J \(edi t o r o  a R i nged Wold\224,NASA SP-533, 1997  Jennifer Long Maxwell, W illiam M Heventhal, III, and Shahram Javidnia, \223The Cassini-Huygens Sequence Development Process\224, 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Paczkowski  B G, \223C assi ni Sci e nce Pl anni ng Process\224 2004 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, May 17 21, 2004 200  Recognize that lack of margin in any resource required for science return will require compensatory staffing. Pr edefined, prevalidated options for resource management such a power modes can compensate. Tools that validate resource allocation are essential 200  Anticipate alternative costs for failing to meet MOS development schedules. The ground system needs to have reached sufficient maturity to support key operations tasks before those tasks commence 200  Distributed science operations introduces delays and complications to sequence development, which must be managed in science planning. System engineering will need to deal with overlap in and conflict between ground systems 200  Acknowledge that complexity in any form\227 spacecraft design, science objectives, MOS architecture\227may be managed to enhance science return but the science planning operations must be funded and structured to manage that complexity The processes to develop science commanding will be lengthy and highly iterative In the end, with an appropriate funding profile, adequate and timely staffing, and effective processes and tools all the facets of mission complexity can be managed to extract amazing science return 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work done by the Cassini-Huygens Flight and Science Teams. Without their efforts the unrivaled science collected by the Cassini mission would not have been achieved This work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technol ogy, under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  251 2008 California Institute of Technology. Government sponsorship acknowledged 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


