Chan 
Yin 
A design of Geophone Tester Based on FPGA 
zhi Lv, Di Fan and A 
in 
Fuguang_y@126.com 
g y g g 
Abstract 
Shandong University of Science and Technology Uint 94270 of Chinese PLA Qingdao, 266510,China Jinan,250117, China 
Lvchangzhi@126.com 
Wei Zhanfan 
Geophone is a specific sensor in geophysical exploration. The geophone tester is mainly used to test the performance parameters of geophone such as DC resistance natural frequency, damping coefficient, sensitivity, distortion and so on. Some domestic testers are big, low precision and high power consumption and not suitable for outdoors. The testers abroad are expensive and their performances are not stable. This paper designs a high performance-cost ratio tester based on FPGA. It adopts EDA technology and programmable Cyclone II series FPGA on the platforms of DSP_Builder and Quartus II On the FPGA, there integrates 24-bit data collector, FIR filter, 32 
points FFT,UART and etc. Some testing experaments are fulfilled and the results show that this portable tester is of high precision, low power, and it is easy to be upgraded and maintained 
s are  high, so they are not adopt to use in the field. The other are based on the technology of DDS and ARM, which have low power and small size, but they cost much and their precision are not high. Although the testers overseas have high precision, but they have small memory and too high price. In the high temperature environment, some of them are easily to be halted and damaged, which may lead to waste [2  This paper designs a portable tester with high precision based on FPGA and isp technology refering on the products at home and abroad 
Index Terms \205 Geophone.Tester. FPGA. FIR Filter. FFT 
I I NTRODUCTION Seismic Prospecting is the most popular way in geophysical exploration to acquire resource information such as oil,natural gas and etc. Its special sensor or tool is geophone  T h e geop hones m u s t be tes t ed by s p ecial tes t er one by  one before using. In view of the needs of exploration environment, the tester must have characterstics of high precision, small volume, low power and high reliability At present, domestic geophone testers are invided two kinds. One sort of testers are based on PC104,which have higer precision and small size,but their power 
consumption 
Direct Digital Synthesis 
A . The Structure and Model of Geophone 
II S YSTEM S TRUCTURE Fig. 1 is the principle block diagram of new tester based on FPGA Its working process are as follows. The DDS 
Fig. 1  The principle block diagram of new tester III.  T ESTING P RINCIPLE 
indicates the quality of suspension system 
F K m 
indicates  stiffness coefficient of spring 
indicates electrical force acting on coils 
The principle of moving coil geophone is that vibration can impel coils cut the magnetic line of force and consequently produce electromotive force in coils. Fig. 2 is its structure and kinetic model.It is a classical second-order sensor [3,4 n F i g.2 
block generates standard testing signals according to testing function, and the signals are input to the tester or standard referenced resistance. Controlled by FPGA the ADC samples the output signal and the data acquired are processed by FIR filter and FFT techniques. The results are send to host computer by communicating between RS232 UART controller and MCU. The further data processing and display are completed by host computer 
x 
c 
  
t t 
the absolute displacement of mass block 
y 
indicates  damping coefficient 
dicates  the absolute displacement of vibrate object on which  geophone is fixed  
B. Polarity and DC Resistance Testing 
587 
The geophone bunch must be connected in the homopolar way in order to get the best testing effect. Polarity testing is to obtain the positive and negative electrode of geophone. In the polarity testing, firstly, knock on the Geophone, then the tester samples the signal outputing form the Geophone continuously and analyse the data. As shown in Fig. 3, if the signal is higher 
Fig. 2  The structure and kinetic model of geophone 


than a threshold and keeps high longer than a minimal period we can judge the polarity of tester by different sounds a\ That of positive polarity.     \(b\ That of negative polarity Fig. 3  Response signals in polarity testing In direct current \(DC\istance testing, a invariable current is firstly loaded to a standard resistance R and we test its output voltage V out 1 then the same current is acted on the geophone controled by  relay and then we measure the output voltage V out2 when it is stable. We can get DC resistance R s from \(1\5   R V V R out out s   1 2 1 C. Testing of Natural Frequency, Damping Coefficient Sensitivity The coils of Geophone will cut the magnetic line of force when they are moving, and then the electro motive force will be generated at both ends of coils. On the other hand, the coils plcaed in magnetic field will moving if there is current in them. So if a impulse current acts on the coils, the answer signal produced by geophone is related to natural frequency,damping coefficient, sensitivity and equivalent mass of the moving coils [6  When testing, firstly, a pulse current of certain wide about 40 percentage of natural frequency\ is impulsed on geophone. Thus the coils will attenuate and oscillate at the law of sines in the magnetic field, we can get the response curve as shown in Fig. 4. In the figure A 1 indicates the amplitude of the first peak of the voltage A 2 indicates the amplitude of the second peak T indicates the first zero-crossing point time Fig. 4  Pulse response curve of the tester By using A 1  A 2 and T acquired through testing, We can get natural frequency f 0 damping coefficient B t sensitivity G s 5\ [7       ln arctan 2 1 A A  2     ln    ln sin 2 1 2 2 2 1 A A A A B t      3  1 2  1 2 0 t B T f   4  tan  xp  2 1 0          e I A m f G s 5 In these formulas I indicates the current flowing through the coils m indicates the qualit y of inertia block D.  Distortion Testing Because the coils of geophone are not installed at the central position of magnetic field, its parameters will have slight nolinear and its output will nolinear too, this is called response distortion. In distortion testing, a standard sine signal of certain frequency is acted on the geophone, and we sample output signal with 32 points per period. We process these data by using FFT and get amplitude value of each harmonic such as A 1 A 2 A 3 A 4 A 5 and so on. Finally we can get distortion by calculating the percentage of fundamental wave and harmonic wave by using \(6 7   100 1 2 5 2 4 2 3 2 2          A A A A A G t 6 IV.  H ARDWARE D ESIGN O F T ESTER A .  ADC Sampling Sequential Control The analog-digital converter \(ADC\ed in the tester is 24 bit high precision ADS1252 of TI corporation Accroding to the requirement  of conversion timing, we design the system by using mixed programming based on VHDL language and graphics mode at the environment of FPGA. Fig 5 is the result of circuit diagram and time sequence control simulation diagram  a ADC sampling control circuit block diagram b\  Simulation curves of ADC sampling circuit control sequence Fig. 5  ADC control circuit and its time sequence simulation diagram B.  Digital Filter Designing The siganl acquired by tester should be  processed by low-pass digital filter in order to improve signal-to-noise ratio and anti-interference ability. Considering resource of FPGA and real-time of tester, we design a 16 th order direct I type FIR low-pass digital filter as shown in Fig. 6 In the design of  FIR filter, Kaiser window is used with the paramters such as 0.5 of  beta, 6.4KHz of sampling frequency, 200Hz of cutoff frequency. The filter is designed in the environment of DSP_Builder 6, and filter coefficients as 588 


h\(0\\(15 are extracted, quantified and exported by using FDATool at the environment of Matlab7 Fig. 6  Principle block diagram of 16 th order direct I type FIR filter C.  The Realization of 32 Points FFT Fig. 7 is the block diagram of mixed radix parallel 32 points FFT algorithm. we call butterfly operation modules of DSP_Builer in the environment of simulink of MATLAB7 and programme accroding to Fig.7 [10 FFT algorith m is  used in distortion testing Fig.7  Block diagram of mixed radix parallel 32 points FFT algorithm D.  The Realization of Serial Communication The UART control module is designed by using VHDL at the environment of QuartusII [10 It is s hown as F i g 8  Here we choose 115.2Kbps,8 bit data, no check mode In Fig.8 clk is the clock signal with  frequency of 24MHz rst is reset signal of UART tp_mode_sel is the key of working  mode choosing p_cmd_rst is the reset key when event of sending or receiving has ended rst is serial input signal bclk indicates band rate char_done indicates the ending of receiving or sending a char txd is serial output port When the system starts to work p_cmd_rs and p_xmit_cmd should be set to low, thus UART would be in receiving state.The received data will be sto red in FIFO of 8 words buffers.The sampling would begin if the command was vaild The processed data are put into the sending buffers of 256 words FIFO. Then p_xmit_cmd and p_cmd_rst are set to high the data sending starts   clk  clkk  rst  p_mode_sel[2..0  p_xmit_cmd  p_cmd_rst  rxd  bclk  p_error  char_done  d_idle  txd  uart inst Fig. 8  Diagram of UART controller macro block V. S YSTEM T ESTING A ND A NALYSIS A.  System Testing Accroding to above analysis and design ,we can test the main paramters of GP903/4A-10H z geophone \(the testing conditions: a 1.5k ohm resistance is parallelled with it, the quality of inertia block is 10.5g , reference resistance is 499 ohm\he testing results are  shown in Fig. 9 and TABLE I It is concluded that this geophone is qualified product according geophone standard a The wave diagram of polarity testing b The wave of DC resistance testing c The wave of natural frequency,damping coefficient, sensitivity testing 589 


d\he wave of distortion testing Fig. 9  The wave of testing TABLE I T EST D ATA O F G P 903/4 A 10 HZ G EOPHONE R s ohm B t f 0 Hz G s V/m/s G t  Measure data 299.1 0.603 10.2 23.1 0.06 Standard data 300 0.605 10.0 23.0 0.12 Tolerance 3.5% ±3.5% ±3.5% ±3.5 0.12 B.  Improvement Actions on Performance The experiment results show that the designed tester has characterstics such as high precision, low power, small size easily operational maintenance, etc.  The following items can improve its precision and stability furthermore 1 It is necessary to temperature compensation for the DC resistance and damping coefficient. We can get ambient temperature t from 1-wire interface temperature sensor DS18B20,whose sensitivity is ±0.5 C According to the temperature characteristic of ge ophone, we can conclude as follows   20  004  0    t R R R s s t 7  20  002  0    t B B B s s t 8 t indicates ambient temperature R t indicates measured impedance R s indicates normalized impedance when t is 20 C  B t indicates measured damping B s indicates normalized damping when t is 20 C  2 The clock in the system should be high stable Temperature-compensation crystal oscillator or constanttemperature crystal oscillator are low drift, high performance and can be used as the clock source of FPGA 3 The voltage reference of ADC and DAC should use low drift and high precision in tegrated regulator. Analog ground and digital ground should be connected by single point near ADC and DAC 4 In order to improve interference immunity, PCB Printed Circuit Board\ should have large area bonding copper 5 Reduce the sampling rate of ADC appropriate to get higher conversion accuracy 6 The geophone must be placed vertically during the testing, otherwise the data acqui red would be ineffective [11 R EFERENCES 1 u X i aon i n g    T h e Cu rren t Situ at io n a nd Fut u r e D e ve lo pm en t o f  t h e Parameter-testiongh for Seismic DetectorŽ,Technology Supervision in Petrolevm Industry,vol.16,no.3,pp.30-31,2000 2 i an  Z e n g L i a n g  T he Us i ng an d t r ou bl e s ho ot in g o f S M T _ 3 00 Ge oph one TesterŽ,Equipment for Geophysical Prospecting, vol.17,no.3,pp.203-204 2007 3 u o F u lo ng  Y i b i j i n  L u o lan b i n g    T he  t e c hno lo gy an d app li c a t ion  o f  th e seismic geophoneŽ, Eouipment for Geo Physical Prospecting,vol.15, no.1 pp.6-14,2005 4 W a ng C h a n gm i n g,K o n g D e r e n et al T h e S e ns i n g a n d T e s t in g  Technology, Beijing:Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Press,2005 5 o Hon g w e i  Ch en Yi fang   e t  a l    S t udy  o n th e  M e a s u r i n g I n s t r u men t  fo r Characteristics of GeophoneŽ, Instrument Technique and Sensor, vol.4 pp.12-13,37,2002 6 Ma lc ol m B B er tr am  an d Er ic V  G a l l a n t G e o p h o n e e l em en t t e s t in g   Crewes Research Report, no.9,pp.1-4,1997 7 i Qunh e  Y u a n J i an guo   T he Pri n c i p l e an d  p e rfo rm a n c e  c o m p a r i s on o f  the Geophone Tester at Home and AbroadŽ,Oil Geophysical Prospecting vol.33,no.S2,pp.152-156, 1998 8 g T i e r ui e t a l  T h e De s i g n  o f Po r t a b l e Ge o pho ne Pa ra me te r T e st e r  Based on ARMŽ,Equipment for Geotechnical Engineering,vol.6, pp.2022,2006 9 F u X i a o n i n g,W a n g L i  R ese a r c h on t h e M eas ur em en t of O v er dam pe d  Coil GeophoneŽ, Modern Measurement and Test,no.3,pp.43-45,1999  A lter a Cor por ati o n,D S P  Bu il der  U s er G u i d e, A lter a C o r por a t i o n 2 0 0 5   11 Xi ang ya ng L i  a nd J i a nxi n Y u an  Geop hon e o r i e n t a t i on an d c oup li ng in threecomponent sea-floor dataŽ.Geophysical Prospecting, vol.47, pp.9951013, 1999 590 


 Fig. 6  North error with GPS/DR integrated filtering   From Tab.3, it is known that the positioning error of GPS/DR integrated filtering is reduced by approximate 150% to 180%, compared with GPS filtering alone, so the vehicle positioning accuracy is improved greatly. By further analysis, it is easy to find the following reasons: the main filter provides feedbacks to reset GPS and DR local filters, so the evaluation accuracy of GPS filter and DR filter is improved respectively, and in return, it makes the global state evaluation of the main filter optimal and the vehicle positioning accuracy improved From Fig. 3-4, it is easily known that the positioning error near 320s of GPS filtering alone changes greatly. It might have been caused by GPS signal interrupting, so the GPS/DR integrated filtering can avoid effectively the system unlock issue with a GPS alone system, which improves system credibility From the above analysis, we can conclude that the vehicle’s position evaluation based on GPS and DR information fusion has some advantages over the system with GPS or DR filtering alone  6. Conclusion  In summary, combining the GPS system with the low cost DR system, a vehicle integrated navigation system can avoid the system unlock caused by signal interrupt with GPS alone and big accumulated errors caused by gyro drift with DR alone. The federal Kalman filter is employed to fuse GPS and DR information, which makes the system’s global performance optimal. We design and implement the vehicle’s position evaluation based on GPS and DR information fusion, and it has the following advantages GPS system and DR system work independently When GPS or DR system breaks down, the brokendown system can be isolated from the main system The evaluation of main filter can be calculated by the other filter so that the main system continues to work normally  Because the main filter can provide feedbacks to reset the local filters, the evaluation accuracy of GPS filter and DR filter is improved respectively. In return it makes the global state evaluation of the main filter optimal GPS filter and DR filter calculating in parallel makes the system gain better real-time processing capability  References  1  Bishop R,  “A survey of intelligent vehicle application worldwide Proceedings of the IEEE intelligent vehicles symposium May 2000, pp.25-30 2  Zheng Chuanbiu, Tian Weifeng, Jin Zhihua, “Application of unscented Kalman filter in state estimation for land vehicle navigation system Journal of system simulation  vol. 17, no. 6, Jun 2005,pp. 1456-1458 3  Gharavi H, Ban K, “Multi hop sensor network design for wide band communications Proceedings of the IEEE August  2003, pp. 1221-1234 4  A.  Gustavo, “Capacity of ad hoc wireless networks with infrastructure  support IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications March 2005, pp. 657-667 5  Fann J C, Shen  G  X, “ Establishment  of  an  Adaptive Extended Kalman filter of DR system for Land Vehicle Navigation and Computer Simulation Research Journal of Chinese Inertial Technology March 1998, pp. 24-28 6  Han Chongzhao, Zhu Hongyan and Duan Zhansheng Multi-source Information Fusion TsingHua University Press, Being, 2006, pp. 263-274 7  Carlson N A, “Information-sharing approach to federated Kalman filtering Proceedings of National Aerospace Electronics Conference 1988, pp. 228-236 8  Li Keqiang, Cao Feng and Zheng Sifa, “A Longitudinal Control Algorithm of Upper Layer Controller Design  for Automotive Vehicles 6th International Symposium  on Advanced Vehicle Control September 2002, pp.825-830 9  Wang Xin-long, Shen Gong-xun and Din Yang-bin Adaptive system model of the vehicle kinematic positioning based on GPS Control and Design vol. 20 no. 1, Jan. 2005, pp. 103-105 10  Liu Xu, Zhang Qishan and Yang Dongkai Nonlinear filter a1gorithm  for G P S / D R integrated positioning Journal of B eijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Vol. 33, no. 2, Feb. 2007 pp. 184-187 11  Deng Zi-li, Gao Yuan, “Fast information fusion Kalman filter Control and Design vol. 20, no. 1, Jan 2005, pp. 27-31 12  Zhen Pingfang, Chang Qing, Zhang Qishay, etc The study of data fusion algorithm of CPS/DR integrated vehicular navigation system Journal of Communication vol. 21, no. 2, Feb.  2000, pp.  42- 48   50  0  50  N orth Erro r m Before filtering After filtering 0               100             200              300 400 500 Time  s    
585 
585 
585 
585 


 and start developing integrated systems again, or finding a method of migrating to a new generation of systems, which would support integration. Due to the rich source of information contained in them and to make development more manageable, the second option was chosen. Hence, in 2004 LGA_A started examining available solutions to meet the challenge for developing a standardised, flexible, integrated and homogeneous IT infrastructure. After reviewing these solutions, LGA_A took the decision to introduce ERP systems to solve their integration problems and provide better services. Also, LGA_A was aiming at integrating its business processes through an ERP solution. However, soon LGA_A realised that ERP systems cannot communicate with other packaged systems and have limitations, as they cannot exchange information with other vendor applications The insufficient nature of their IT infrastructure and the need for integration led LGA_A to revisit their strategies for developing integrated IT infrastructure. Thus, the top management formed an ambitious vision aiming at: \(a\abling integration internally and externally; \(b\ieving effective and efficient joined up government and \(c\abling electronic request and delivery of services. As a result, supporting the decision making process for EAI adoption. LGA_A did not take the decision to fully integrate the borough since such a solution had a high cost. SDE reported that the plan for developing an integrated IT infrastructure on a large scale was considered of high risk as there is no single integration technology or software package that supports the development of an integrated IT infrastructure and there is a lack of knowledge in LGA_A regarding on EAI solutions. This indicates that barriers like the lack of knowledge on EAI and the lack of a single EAI product that solves all integration problems, influenced their decisions As the plans for integrating LGA_A were not completely justified, its top management suggested a pilot to be run and evaluate its outcome. The pilot demonstrates that the integration is technically feasible, can deliver significant benefits to LGA_A and may assist in extracting relevant EAI barriers and risks. Such a decision is supported by the literature  G A _ A  h oped th at t h en central g o v e rnm ent would recognise the success and importance of the project and award it National Project status. As the decision was taken to adopt EAI solution for the pilot project and for other projects in future, the interviewees was asked to comment on whether what factors negatively and positively affected the EAI adoption process. HIT and SDM replied that   most vital negative factor was the silo mentality among our older staff members that resisted to such a change in the department this was also because there were insufficient technical skills and expertise to do integration and our staff lacked understanding of business integration for this reason we had to invest money to train our staff to build integration skills   The HIT also reported on positive factors   despite there were some problems but when systems integrated through EAI, the systems physically got better and everybody saw that the working conditions and our resources are improving i.e. performance as well as the systems improved. As a consequence of doing this the moral of the staff improved and communication and information sharing was enhanced   In the next section, the authors present the testing of research issues and highlighting the empirical results  4.1. Testing Research Issue 1 Factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs  Table 1 provides with the analysis of the factors using Miles and Huberman cale o f le s s  important medium important d most important d where the interviewees did not respond, the researcher uses symbol to illustrate as no response  Table 1: Validating EAI Adoption Factors   EAI Adoption Factors HIT SDE SDM PF Project Champion  Citizen s Satisfaction   Critical Mass  Market Knowledge   TF Evaluation Frameworks  Technological Risks    IT Infrastructure  Personnel IT Knowledge   IT Sophistication  Data Security and Privacy    SF Top Management Support  IT Support  Higher Administrative Authority  FF Return on Investment    Cost  OF Centralisation    Managerial Capability  Barriers    Benefits  Formalisation    Size  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  4.2. Testing Research Issue 2 Adoption Lifecycle Phases  The interviewees were asked to comment and illustrate the importance of the aforesaid adoption lifecycle phases based on the EAI project. Initially all the interviewees agreed that these phases are very important. For example SDE reported that  yes these phases are very important with a perfect breakdown and we faced these phases in EAI project   Whereas, HIT reported that  proposal and adoption decision phases are vital and are the physical aspects whereas motivation and conception are not inevitably physical aspects unless you got a fairly refined strategic approach to what you want to do   SDM stated that before the motivation phase they also faced external driver phase in the project LGA_A was driven by some external influences e.g pressure from central government to improve their service delivery. Due to such influences, LGA_A was motivated to run a pilot project. In addition, the senior development support engineer and the HIT stated that they faced another phase before the proposal phase such as the discussion phase and the research phase respectively. After discussing on these phases with the interviewees, it appears that both have the same underlying meaning i.e  before adoption decision phase we may have research phase by research this we mean that we do some sort of discussions to run a pilot case study and this could be before the proposal phase. The reason to bring this phase before proposal is that if we need resources that actually enable us to do the pilot study, then we might need to take the decision to get the money to do it   After analysing all the interviews, the authors noted that external driver phase can be same as motivation phase. The reason is that an organisation may be motivated to take a step when it is either influenced internally due to some problem or externally through some stakeholders influence Whereas, the discussion or research phase may also be the same as proposal phase. The rationale is that in proposal phase e.g. the departments making decisions to adopt technology need to some sort of research and provide substantiated reasons for approval from the organisation based on the research, besides this the departments need to analyse their requirements and assess their capabilities for acquiring a technology Thus, the interviewees were asked to illustrate the importance of the adoption lifecycle phases. The importance of each phase is presented in Table 2  Table 2: Importance of Adoption Lifecycle Phases  Adoption Lifecycle Phases HIT SDE SDM Motivation  Conception  Proposal    Adoption Decision   4.3. Testing Research Issue 3 Mapping EAI adoption factors on adoption lifecycle phases  Before commencing on the mapping of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases, the interviewees were explained how to perform the mapping Thereafter, the interviewees were asked to map the factors influencing EAI adoption on different phases of the adoption lifecycle. The interviewees went through a rigorous thinking process and mapped the factors \(based on its influence\ each phase of the adoption lifecycle. Table 3 illustrates the results of the mapping of factors for motivation phase only The factors with less \(i.e. one interviewee supporting and other two not\ and no \(i.e. none of the interviewees supporting\ support are discarded. The reason is that these factors had less influence or did not influence on a specific phase. On the other hand factors with full \(i.e. all three interviewees supporting\ and moderate \(i.e. two interviewees supporting and third not supporting\ support are utilised for further empirical research  Table 3: Summarising the Factors with Full or Moderate Support on the Motivation Phase  Motivation Phase  Factors HIT SDE SDM PF Project Champion    Citizen s Satisfaction    Critical Mass    TF IT Sophistication    Data Security and Privacy    SP Top Management Support    Higher Administrative Authority    FF Return on Investment    OF Benefits    Size    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 4.4. Testing Research Issue 4 Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  Table 1 validates the factors using Miles and Huberman w h erea s, T a ble 3 illustrates th e  mapping of factors on the motivation phase of the adoption lifecycle. However, these tables do not illustrate the important of each factor on the adoption lifecycle phases. This section introduces AHP technique to prioritise the importance of factor influencing EAI adoption. Table 4 illustrates the global weights-based prioritisation of factors for example on only motivation phase \(due to the constraints on length of the paper, the authors did not include the prioritisation results of other three adoption lifecycle phases\ These weights are obtained by using the Expert Choice \(EC\ software and the conclusions drawn from them are the final results of the analysis of collective judgements provided by the panel of interviewees selected for LGA_A. The results presented in these tables do not mean that any factor is unimportant. It merely exhibits interviewees perceptions on the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  Table 4: Prioritising the Importance of Factors on the Motivation Phase  Prioritising Factors on the Motivation Phase Factor Categories Factors Prioritisation Result TF IT Sophistication 1\ 0.5963 SF Top Management Support 1\ 0.5963 PF Project Champion 2\ 0.5146 OF Benefits 3\ 0.4583 PF Citizen s Satisfaction 4\ 0.3568 OF Size 5\ 0.2083 PF Critical Mass 6\ 0.1293 TF Data Security and Privacy 7\ 0.0704 SF Higher Administrative Authority 7\ 0.0704 FF Return on Investment 8\ 0.0000  5. Discussions and Revision of the Model  According to the empirical findings, only two factors were not validated i.e. formalisation and evaluation framework. The reasons are: \(a\GA_A did not follow any formal procedure to assess EAI technological solution and \(b\ no evaluation framework was used to assess EAI technological solution but relied on the software vendor. Other factors have either directly or indirectly influenced the decision making process for EAI technological solution adoption. On the other hand, six new factors were identified such as \(a data consistence and project delivery timescale as internal pressure factors b stakeholder s pressure and competition as external pressure factors, \(c stakeholder s support as a support factors, and \(d central government grants  as a financial factor. Four new adoption lifecycle phases were also identified from the empirical findings from LGA_A: [\(a external driver and/or \(b driving force c discussion and/or \(d research phase  tern al driv e r or d r iv ing  f o rce ph a s e are prior to the motivation phase, discussion and or research phases are prior to the proposal phase whereas, adoption decision phase was also reported with a different term i.e investment phase. The findings illustrate that the role of factors, adoption lifecycle phases, mapping of factors and prioritising the importance EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases had high importance during EAI adoption process in LGA_A Thus, the authors propose that while exploring EAI adoption in LGAs a\actors, \(b\ lifecycle phases, \(c\mapping of factors and \(d\oritising the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases provides a deeper understanding of interrelationships within LGAs. In doing so, the revised proposed EAI adoption model may: \(a\ercome IT infrastructure limitations within LGAs, \(b\mprove the level of analysis and \(c\upport LGAs when adopting EAI  6. Conclusions  LGAs are complex organisations and are managed by the consent and rules set by the central government. They are influenced by other government authorities and ministries, and their IS adoption involve distributed decision-making based on a division of control and powers [17, 39   Conversely, private organisations have direct and undivided power over decisions and flexible management style with inter-departmental teams working in central coordination T h is  distinction illustrates that LGAs have a bureaucratic nature and are committed to outdated cultural values Such characteristics emphasize risk aversion and insist that structures enhance control rather than connected thinking with silos in LGAs, let alone between them reov er, each L G A dis p la y s  differences in the way: \(a\eir business processes are implemented to provide citizen services, and \(b makes its decisions that differs a lot from other private organisations h es e th eoris e d conceptions distinguish LGAs from other sectors EAI represents an attractive proposition to LGAs, since EAI offers the opportunity to leverage the systems into a seamless chain of processes and present a unified view of their information [12, 28  When such leveraging and presentation occurs, LGAs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  may capitalise on their opportunities offered by LGA initiatives \(e.g. e-Government\se then they may efficiently interact with their citizens and other stakeholders on a consistent basis w e v e r EAI is an emerging area within LGAs, thus, there remains an absence of theoretical models, which means there is still a case for the identification of factors that affect the decision making process for EAI adoption and identification of adoption lifecycle phases, with the development of empirically validated underpinnings argued, justified and presented in this paper. The authors sought to address the established voids by proposing a novel conceptual model for EAI adoption in LGAs. The model takes into consideration the parame ters that were identified in the normative literature as influencing factors and adoption lifecycle phases. The proposed conceptual model is novel as it includes: \(a\e model consists of a set of factors influencing EAI adoption in LGA_A and incorporates factors identified separately in previous studies. These factors are used for the developing an EAI adoption model in LGAs, \(b\e model incorporates adoption lifecycle phases Empirical findings illustrate that LGA_A passed through these phases while adopting EAI, \(c\e model assimilates the mapping of factors influencing EAI adoption in LGA_A on the adoption lifecycle phases, and \(d\e model incorporates the prioritisation \(importance\ EAI adoption factors in LGA_A on the adoption lifecycle phases The model can be used as a tool for decisionmaking to support LGAs and allow decision makers and researchers to understand and analyse EAI adoption. The concepts of the proposed model can be used for the adoption of inter-organisational IS since such systems should focus on integrated technologies and infrastructures. An interpretive, qualitative case study approach was selected to conduct this research It is not the intention of this paper to offer prescriptive guidelines to EAI adoption but rather describe case study perspectives that allow other researchers to relate their experiences to those reported. Hence, offering a broader understanding of the phenomenon of EAI adoption in LGAs Therefore, the lessons learnt are a result of the description provided and do not seek to be prescriptive. These lessons are summarised below Lesson 1 The practical implications of the mapping of factors on adoption lifecycle phases are  this process can support in better understanding the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs. This is vital as it can also support the managements  decision-making process while introducing EAI Lesson 2 Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on adoption lifecycle phases can further enhance the decision making process in LGAs. During the mapping of factors, the importance of factors was not recognised Prioritising the factors can assist LGA officials in realising and understanding the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs Lesson 3 Findings on the mapping of factors and prioritising the importance of factors on adoption lifecycle phases reflect that each interviewee from LGA_A has relatively different conception while mapping the factors and prioritising the importance of factors on adoption lifecycle phases. This may also illustrate that within different LGAs interviewees understanding, knowledge and ability to comprehend the importance of factors may differ Lesson 4 Findings related to the mapping of factors and prioritising the importance of factors cannot be generalised as they may also differ from one LGA to the other Hitherto, the authors highlighted the individual elements of the contributions and research novelty presented in this paper. However, at the wider context this research aimed to enhance the technical decision making process while adopting EAI technologies in LGAs. This was achieved by proposing and validating a novel model \(Figure 1 for EAI adoption in the practical arena \(LGA_A The key beneficiaries are the decision makers and practitioners within LGAs, and researchers within the academic community. All of these benefit from the research in this paper as a guideline to analyse and understand EAI adoption in LGAs. In doing so this research work significantly contributes to the body of knowledge and practice in the areas of EAI and the local government domain by providing sufficient support to the decision makers in speeding up the EAI adoption process in LGAs   7. References  1 A b ie H Foy n B., Bing J  Blobe l, B  P h a r ow P    Delgado, J., Karnouskos, S., Pitkanen, O. and Tzovaras, D The Need for a Digital Rights Management Framework for the Next Generation of E-Government Services  Electronic Government An International Journal 2004 1\(1\, pp. 8-28 2 Beck er, S. N. and W h i s l e r, T  L   The innovative organisation: a selective view of current theory and research  The Journal of Business 1967, 40\(4\, pp. 462469 3 Ch en H Adopting Emerging Integration Technologies in Organisations PhD Thesis, Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, London, UK 2005 4 D a v e nport T  H   Putting the Enterprise into the Enterprise Systems  Harvard Business Review 1998, pp 121-131 5 Eis e n ha rdt K  M  Building Theories from Case Study Research  Academy of Management Review 1989, 14\(4 pp. 532-550 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 6 Elm a g a r m i d, A  K  a nd   Mc Iv e r W  J  J r  The Ongoing March towards Digital Government  Computer  2001, 34\(2\, pp. 32-38 7 Fra m ba c h R. T  a nd Sc hille w a e r t, N Organisational innovation adoption: a multi-level framework of determinants and opportunities for future research  Journal of Business Research 2002, 55\(2\ pp. 163-76 8 G a lliv a n M. J Organisational adoption and assimilation of complex technological innovations development and application of a new framework  The DATABASE for Advances in Information Systems 2001 32\(3\, pp. 51-85 9 G a m p e r J  a nd A u g s te n, N   The Role of Web Services in Digital Government  2 nd International Conference on EGovernment Prague, Czech Republic, 2003, pp. 161-166 1 Heeks R  Reinventing Government in the Information Age Routledge, London, 1999 11 H u a n g  S  M   C h a n g  I C   L i  S  H  a n d L i n  M  T   Assessing risk in ERP projects: identify and prioritise the factors  Industrial Management and Data Systems 2004 104\(8\ pp. 681-688 1 Jan ssen  M  an d Cressw ell, A   An Enterprise Application Integration Methodology for E-Government  Journal of Enterprise Information Management 2005 18\(5\, pp. 531-547 13 Ka m a l, M. M., T h e m i s toc l e ous, M. a nd El lim a n T   Mapping Factors Influencing EAI Adoption in the Local Government Authorities on Different Phases of the Adoption Lifecycle  European and Mediterranean Conference on Information Systems Dubai, UAE, 2008 14 Ka m a l, M. M. a nd T h e m istoc l e ous M Investigating EAI Adoption in LGAs: A Case Study Based Analysis  13 th Americas Conference on Information Systems  Keystone, Colorado, 2007, pp. 1-13 15 K a m a l, M. M IT Innovation Adoption in the Government Sector: Identifying the Critical Success Factors  Journal of Enterprise Information Management  2006, 19\(2\, pp. 192-222 16 K h oum ba ti, K   Evaluating the Adoption of Enterprise Application Integration in Healthcare Organisations PhD Thesis, Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, London, UK, 2005 1 La m   W  Barriers to E-Government Integration  Journal of Enterprise Information Management 2005 18\(5\, pp. 511-530 18 L a m  P  K  a n d C h i n  K  S   Identifying and prioritising critical success fact ors for conflict management in collaborative new product development Industrial Marketing Management, 2005, 34, pp. 761-772 1 L ee J W   an d Ki m  S  H   Using analytic network process and goal programming for interdependent IS project selection  Computers & Operations Research  2000, 27, pp. 367-382 20 L i nthic u m  D   Enterprise Application Integration  Massachusetts, USA, Addison-Wesley, 2000 21 L ong o, J  R   The ABCs of Enterprise  EAI Journal  2001, pp. 56-58 2 M a nt zan a V  G   Investigating the Adoption of Enterprise Application Integration in Healthcare Organisations Using an Actor-Oriented Approach PhD Thesis, DISC, Brunel University, London, UK, 2006 23 Mc Iv or, R Mc H u g h M a nd Ca dde n  C Internet Technologies Supporting Transparency in the Public Sector  The International Journal of Public Sector Management 2002, 15\(3\. 170-187 24  Mile s  M. a nd H ube rm an, A   Qualitative Data Analysis: An Expanded Sourcebook   Sage, Newbury Park California, 1994 2  P a u l J-H H  C h an   P  Y K an d S h en g O R L   Investigation of factors affecting healthcare organization s adoption of telemedicine technology  33 rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on  Systems Sciences 2000, pp. 110 26  Pus c hm a nn, T  a nd A lt, R Enterprise Application Integration The Case of the Robert Bosch Group  34 th  Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences  Maui, 2001, pp. 1-10 2 R o ger s  E  M  19 95   Diffusion of Innovations 4 th ed The Free Press, New York, NY 2 R u h W   M a gi n n i s, F  a n d B r o w n  W  Enterpriser Application Integration New York, USA, Wiley John Wiley & Sons Inc, 2001 29  Saaty  T  L   The Analytic Hierarchy Process Planning, Priority Setting: Resource Allocation McGrawHill, New York, 1980 30  Sa lm e r on, J  L  a nd H e r r e r o, I An AHP-based methodology to rank critical success factors of executive information systems  Computer Standards & Interfaces  2005, 28, pp. 1-12 31 T h e m is toc l e ous M. a n d Ira ni, Z Towards a Methodology for the Development of Integrated IT Infrastructures In Sprague, R. J. \(Eds 39 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Los Alamitos, California, [CD Proceedin 20 06   p p  4 7   3 T h em i s t o cl eo u s  M   Justifying the decisions for EAI implementations: A validated proposition of influential factors  Journal of Enterprise Information Management  2004, 17\(2\, pp. 85-104 33 T h e m is toc l e ous M., Ira ni Z  a nd K u lj is J   Extending the Information System Lifecycle through Enterprise Application Integration: A Case Study Experience  37 th  Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Big Island, Hawaii, 2004, pp. 1-8 3 T h em i s t o cl eo u s  M   Iran i  Z   O Keefe, R. M. and Paul, R ERP Problems and Application Integration Issues: An Empirical Survey  34 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Maui, Hawaii, 2001 3 V i n o s ki  S   Where is middleware  IEEE Internet Computing 2002, 6\(2\ 83-5 36 W a l s h  P   Improving Government s Response to Local Communities is Place Management an Answer  Australian Journal of Public Administration 2001, 60\(2 pp. 3-12 37 W a rd, M  A  a nd Mi tc he ll S A comparison of the strategic priorities of public and private sector information resource management executives  Government Information Quarterly 2004, 21\(2\ 284-304 3 W i mm er M  A   A European perspective towards online one-stop government: the E-Gov project  Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 2002 1\(1\, pp. 92-103 39 W o rra ll, L   Justifying investment in GIS: a local government perspective  International Journal of Geographical Information Science 1994, 8\(6\. 545565  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


