The Design of Intelligent QA platform Based on Model of Learner’s Personality  Yanhong Hu 1 002 Ming Zhao 2  1 School of network ,Huazhong Normal University,Wuhan,China,430079 2 School of Computer Science, Yangtze University,Jingzhou Hubei, China, 434023 Ming-zh@163.com ABSTRACT With the development of network technology ,online learning becomes easier. But how to meet the need of learners’ personality in network study is still a big problem In order to support the personalized study better in the network environment, we take the personalized learning system as the research background. The artificial intelligence and cognitive technology were employed in the design and research of intelligent QA platform based on learners’ personal model. Such issues as the model building based on learners’ personality,  and the designing of Intelligent QA Systems based on this model to present adaptive knowledge are mainly explored 1. INTRODUCTION QA system is a necessary component of online learning platform. It can promptly solve learners puzzles to a certain degree, and help to eliminate their learning barrier, In addition, it plays an crucial role in strengthening communication between teachers and learners, which is quite helpful for the learners to clear about the question and hence aquire the knowledge they really need. At present, a lot of researches have been conducted in this area According to related literature report, these researches mainly concentrate on key word match, dynamic question connection, FAQ production as well as the feedback of teachers teaching issues. Relatively speaking, the QA sytems designed by foreign experts are more intelligent For example, they support the i nquiry by natural language and provide richer content with higher quality. The most distinctive feature is that the excellent intelligent QA sytems abroad is running i ndependently, and they dont belong to any teaching or learning platform. They act as resource providers in professional fi elds, and dont link to teaching process. On the other hand, domestic QA systems are basically assistant of online edu cation, which help the teachers and learners in teaching and learning Obviously, online education has become increasingly popular. Although the model of keywords extraction and problems matching strategy has been extensively studied 002 in the designing of QA syst em, personalized interaction has been blowed over. Most advanced system through the keyword matching met hod has been looking for answers from the resource library, or providing FAQ to discussion areas such as BBS. The reason for this consideration is that the people in information acquisition process will be similar to some of the problems. In fact, questions must be quite different since the i nquirers are quite different in learning background, cognitive ability, and basic level and so on. These differences lies only in information and knowledge, and more importantly, in the depth of knowledge presentation. The traditional QA system take little consideration in the individual difference since it provides the same response to different inquirers, which inevitably limits its implication area In this paper, we discuss the designing of an intelligent QA platform based on the model of learners personality The main research point is on the use of data mining technology and other methods to extract the learners personality, and auto-adapted answer of question which inquirers provide based on questi ons of personal model. All these will involve the auto-adapted adjustment strategy based on connection with presents of questions. It has the extremely important theoretical significance for us to design a human, personalized intelligent QA system. The information acquired process i nvolves in inquires and replies. Without the design based on model of personality the quality of individualized information would not be ensured  2. Research on the mining of learner personality  The learning model is a user model aiming at online education. It is the abstract of one or a group of learners in online education environment, which describes such information as cognition level, the personalized characteristics of the learners. The learner model is the basis of implementing personalized learning. Nowadays the PAPI model established by IEEE LTCS is comparative mature. The model can meet the needs of teaching management well. However, it isnt comprehensive enough in describing the learning behavi or.  For example, it is lack of the description of some non-intelligence factors \(such as personality, motivation, learning style extend some property of indivi duality to this model so that it becomes the basis of th e personalized intelligence QA 
Second International Conference on Genetic and Evolutionary Computing 978-0-7695-3334-6/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/WGEC.2008.112 402 


system. Whats more, we conduct research on mining the personality of learners to ach ieve the relationship between learners personality and learning behavior. As the foundation of auto-adapted answering, all these will provide more comfortable service for online learners  2.1 The learning model aiming at personalized learning The traditional PAPI model contains the following information: statistic in formation of population, learning information, management in formation, relationship information, security information, preference information performance information and collective works information Among them, the description of the information about learners cognitive level was insufficient enough. For example performance information includes the resume of learners, the objective of current and future work situation work. Collective works information describes and testifies learners learning ability. However, this model shorts of the description of learners personality. Actually, the personality of learners will make a great contribution to study effect. For example , for a less self-confident student when he makes a right answer for a question, the human teacher would respond actively by such praise as "you are very good" to encourage him to go on to the next learning procedure; Comparatively, when a self-confidence student makes a right answer, teachers would respond like "not bad could you come to a higher challenge?" This kind of words encourages him to enter the next phase. Therefore, based on the traditional PAPI model, we extend a personality attribution to this model, which helps us to get a learning model based on learners pers onality as in the following table Table  1.  The learning model based on learners’ personality the learning model based on learners personality PAPI original model The expansion attribution of PAPI original model Statistic of population Name, age, sex, etc Academic Background Major, subject, curriculum, etc Learning information Brief information on learning Learning basis Score of Corresponding content scoring Master, understanding, knowledge, know what, know so little Management Brief management information Character Cartel 16 kinds of character attribution Relationship Relationship with teachers, etc Habit of learning Fast reading 001 intensive  reading , general reading, etc Security Password Learning dependence Extensive reading, intensive reading, etc Preference Parameters of promoting interaction between human and computer  others Health situation, etc performance resume 002 current work situation and objective in future, etc  Collective Works magnum opus and proof, etc   2.2 Research on mining learners’ personality  The measure of mining learners personality is to gather learner sample from internet, collect some basic information of the sample and analyze the relationship between learners personality a nd his learning behavior 2.2.1The Personality Mining Method Definition 1 Let C={c1, c2,ƒ, cn} be an attribute set and Vi be the cis range \( ci 002 C 1 002 Vi, the two-tuple \(ci, vij an attribute pattern of {ci 2 attribute pattern of attribute set Ck and the Cl, Ck Cl is not empty and Ck, Cl belong to C, then patternk patternl is an attribute pattern of the attribute set Ck Cl 001  002 003 Definition 2 Let P={p1, p2,ƒ, pm} be an personality attribute set with 3 aspects related with the learners personalized learning--the characteristic, the motivation and the style. Then the pers onality pattern is an attribute pattern of P\002\(P \002 002 P Definition 3 Behaviour pattern is the quantitative description of learning behavior characteristic. Let B={b1 b2,ƒ, bl} be the set of the behavior characteristic, then the behavior pattern is an attribute pattern of B\002\(B \002 002 B Definition 4 The Personality mining refers to that through the analysis of sam ple learners learning behaviour pattern and the personality p attern, gain th e rule between them and based on the rule automatically acquire the learners personality pattern In Internet learning envi ronment, learner's learning 
403 


behaviour pattern is heterogeneous and diverse 2 the personality pattern has many dimensions and most attribute values are numerical. Simply using the conventional data mining algorithm will cause a high level of complexity and low precision In view of the problem, we proposed the working mechanism of the personality mining algorithm as shown in Figure 1 Investigation of personality Sample database of learner's personality Analysisi of associative rules Mergering of personality attribute statistical analysis Obtaining personality Learning log Database of personality after mergering Pattern of learner's behavior Rules between personality and behavior  Fig  .1 illustrative diagram of  personality mining  Obtain the personality pattern through the 0017 investigation of the sam ple learners personality, and reduce its dimensions by combining the personality attributes Obtain the study behaviour pattern through 0018 statistical analysis of the learning journal Through the association analysis of the personality 0019 characteristic and the behaviour pattern, mine the behaviorpersonality rule According to the rule, reason the current learner's 001 behaviour pattern, and thus obtain the learner's personality characteristic  2.2.2 Description of learning behavior pattern  The learning behavior pattern is description of learning behavior characteristic. Let H={h1, h2, h3,ƒƒ hn}, and H is a set of learning behavior characteristic. Among them, hj is a kind of learning behavior \(such as number of browsing Courseware\hen a person has hJ,hK, two kinds of learning behavior then its learni ng behavior pattern is the subset of H {hJ,hK}.attention that the description of learning behavior characteristic is a quantitative description If the number of browsing courseware is three times, the value of hJ is 3, and so on . Thus the learning behavior pattern could be expressed as a certain number set Corresponding each learning behavior ,the set has a corresponding number value  2.2.3 Acquisition of Association Rules between personality and learning behavior  The personality characteristic is gained through matching the current learners behaviour pattern with the rules antecedent. The process is as follows Step1: Match the learners behaviour pattern item by item with the rule's antecedent and thus obtain a set of personality attribute values Step2: If there is an attribute with inconsistent attribute values, take the one produced by the rule with the highest confidence Step3: Use the product of personality attribute value and the corresponding weight to construct the personality characteristic vector Step4: According to the personality characteristic vector, classify the learners according to the result of personality clustering. Contrast the data and its result can confirm the accuracy of the personality mining method  2.3 Evaluation of learners’ cognitive level Because of different learning background, cognition ability, the original knowledge level and personalized characteristic, the questi on which learners propose would be different. This kind of difference lies not only in the difference in information and knowledge, but more importantly in the depth of information, namely the depth of knowledge presentation. Therefore 002 it cant simply give the same answer to those different learners through the intelligent QA system. On the contrary, it should offer explaining with different depth according to different learners. Here it involves an evaluation on the learners cognitive level, and a certain degree of explanation is to be provided according to the evaluation. Thus, we proposed a kind of evaluation me thod based on learning background and critical knowledge. It can obtain the approximate cognitive level under the critical knowledge or the question By analyzing, statistics th e relationship of question and learning background of learners. In this foundation, it can realize navigation based on th e question explanation about critical knowledge …that is expansion of the auto-adapted depth  3. Design of an Intelligent QA platform based on model of learner’s personality 3.1 The frame of QA system and the function of each module The Intelligent QA platform based on model of 
404 


learners personality consist of two parts: the traditional QA system and extensive intelligence QA system. The Extensive part includes: ac quisition of learners personality module; estimating of learners cognitive level module auto-adapted content present QA module and analysis and statistical of question module  Figure 1.the function frame of an intelligent QA system based on learners personality 3.2 Key issue to the implementation of the system 3.2.1 Auto-adapted presentation of the knowledge  Auto-adapted presentation of the knowledge includes the acquisition of question auto-adapted connection and the auto-adapting of explanations depth. We use the traditional method---matching algorithm based on the keyword splitting to solute au to-adapted presenting of the knowledge. In order to solute the auto-adapting of explanations depth. We shoul d provide some explanations with different depth and construct the attribution of the answers depth, the variable can be described by fuzzy variable, such as {Shallow, moderate, deep}, at last, we operator the learners cognitive level and learner personalized model with corresponding weight. Through these methods, we get the value of the answers depth attribution and obtain the auto-adapted answer from the answer depth attribution value 3.2.2 Statistic and analysis of the questions  We can grasp the distribu tion status and laws by statistical and analysis ques tions. The distribution status and laws can reflect the effect ion and loophole of the corresponding knowledge on net work, then we should adjust the teaching contents The statistical and analysis of questions in traditional QA system focused on chapter or knowledge. As we have introduced a intelligent QA system based on learners personality, the corresponding statistics and analysis should also increase statistics and analysis based on the model of learners personality, especially to analysis the relationship between learners academic background and distribution status of inquired questions thus, the algorithm based on learners cognitive level and auto-adapted answer under learners personality can be optimized well  4. Conclusion  The intelligent QA system based on learners personality can be used  to realize the communication between teachers and students, help students to be clear about the point of the knowl edge and obtain the required answer in network education. Additionally, it can be applied to various fields, such as the building of medical and hygiene website. Regardle ss of what kind of domain each learner with different request can get answer in different depth. The in telligent QA system based on learners personality is promising in the application The emphasis of this paper is to propose an intelligent QA system based on learners personality, and the key technology of how to realize it. We hope that it can offer readers a certain reference  References  Lin Jian Research on personalized inform ation service in web-based environment. Information research. 2006, \(12  SHEN Rui- min.A Personalized Digital Service Model Based on Web. Microelectronics & Computer.2001, \(1  Liu Jianguo. Research on individualized  service model for teaching resources. Master degree papers of Northwest University. 2004, 4  ZHANG Yu-guang JU Yan-hui. Study on the Technology of Information Filtering in the Personalized Information Service Information Science.2005, \(1  ZHAO Liang. Algorithm de sign for personalization recommendation systems. Journal of Computer Research and Development.2002,\(8 
405 


hash implementation\or costly further processing \(such as tree-building or transformation expected 3.3 Exploiting Structure Recurrence Structure information can be exploited to speedup various XML processing stages from tokenization well-formedness check and validation, to tree building transformation and transmission. In this subsection we describe in detail how Structure Encoding improves performance in each of these stages 3.3.1 Tokenization Tokenization scans the source document, checks syntax, and generates t okens. Tokens have types as well as values. In Structure Encoding, token types include: Start Element, End Element, Immediate Close Attribute Name, Attribute Value, Namespace Attribute Name, Namespace Attribute Value, Text, Whitespace Comment, Doctype, and Processing Instruction. Note that an attribute is composed of two tokens, an Attribute Name token, and an Attribute Value token Also notice that namespace attributes are treated differently from other attributes Tokens values are in the form of strings. For example the value of an Attribute Name token is the name of the attribute, while the valu e of an Attribute Value token is the value of the attribute It is quite evident that two token lists generated from two documents of the same structure have tokens of exactly the same types, and they appear in the same order. Furthermore, other than tokens of types Text and Attribute Value, token values are also the same This has two implications: one is that they occupy the same number of characters in the source document; the other is that if the token in the first document is syntactically correct, th en the corresponding token in the second document must also be syntactically correct Structure Encoding exploits these facts. It caches token lists for document structures. When a new document comes in, it first acquires the structure ID of the document by either hashing or extracting the ID embedded in the document. It then uses the ID to retrieve cached token list for the document structure Tokenization of the incoming document can be greatly improved in case of a cache-hit because  The type of next token is known, so there is no need to identify token type of the next construct  For most tokens, the tokenizer only needs to skip a known number of characters. For example, if next token is of type Doctype, then it only needs to skip a number of bytes based on the length of the value of the cached token  For most tokens, the tokenizer does not need to store values for them as it can share with the cached token. In above case, there is no need to create a string to store the Doctype construct 3.3.2 Well-formedness Check and Validation Well-formedness check in a typical XML parser verifies that  There is exactly one top-level element  All open tags have a corresponding close tag or an immediate close construct  All tags are correctly nested  Attributes of an element have different names  Namespace attributes of an element have different names  All namespace prefixes have corresponding namespace attributes defined in scope Note that none of these activities involve Text and Attribute Value tokens. As a result, if document D1 is well-formed, and document D2 has the same structure as D1, then D2 must also be well-formed. So there is no need for well-formedness check on D2 XML validation checks if a document conforms to the rules of a Document Type Definition \(DTD Schema. Continuing with above example, if D1 is valid for schema S, then D2 must also be valid for S if its Text and Attribute Value tokens are valid for S That is, validation of D2 is re duced to the validation of its Text and Attribute Value constructs 3.3.3 Tree Building Tree-based parsers need to build a tree representation of the document. This tree building process involves operations such as the allocation \(and later deallocation nodes, and the linking of allocated nodes into a tree Using structure information, once we know that the incoming document \(D2\as a previous document \(D1\operations can be optimized in following ways xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8 se id=c5bae136d32e1d7763a1a970d186e0ff books  books Figure 4. Sample Document with Structure ID Embedded 
315 


 Tree reuse: if D1 had previously constructed a tree and no longer needs it, then D2 can reuse it. All it needs to do is to reassign values for text and attribute nodes Values for text nodes are extracted from corresponding Text Tokens, while the values of attribute nodes are extracted from corresponding Attribute Value tokens Since, for a given value, the rank of its corresponding token in the token list is fixed, this reassignment process is extremely simple. This tree reuse approach obviates the operations for D1 to de-allocate \(or garbage collect the tree, the operations for D2 to allocate objects for each of its nodes and assign node values, as well as the operations for D2 to link these nodes  Fast tree duplication: in case D1 still needs its document tree, a duplicate of D1’s document tree is first made for D2. Fast tree duplication is possible by either preduplication when system is idle, or by re-organizing also could occur when system is idle\D1’s document tree so that nodes of the tree are aligned in an array, and that tree duplication is reduced to one simple memory copy  Tree sharing: by replacing pointers for text and attribute value pointers with corresponding offsets in token lists D1 and D2 can share the document tree. This tree sharing approach is ideal for reducing memory requirements if system expects concurrent use of documents of identical structures \(such as in a concurrent server environment\simple implementation of two in-memory documents of a same structure sharing the in-memory representation of the structure. Each document contains a pointer to the structure, along with a list of texts and attributes values 3.3.4 Transformation An XSL-based transformer generates output from a SS system has SS and the structure of D \(ST arrives, then this transformati on can be split into two phases  The Pre-Processing \(PreP arrives. It takes SS and ST as input, and generates Stencil SN, see below  The After Arrival Processing \(AAP when D arrives. It uses SN and D’s token list as input and generates the same output as would a usual XSLT processor for SS and D PreP is a partial transformation. It is a form of partial evaluation based on the partial document information contain in the structure of the document. Many costly XSLT operations, such as template matching and node selection, can be carried out in the PreP phase, so that they won’t be involved in the AAP phase, thus reducing the latency between the arrival of the document and the completion of the transformation The result of the PreP phase is a Stencil which assuming transformation result is in the form of text, is a list containing elements of the following types  String, which is the result of fully executed XSLT operations. \(Note that there are no adjacent strings in the list as they can be concatenated  Future Expressions which can only be fully evaluated after the document is received. Future Expressions can’t be resolved during the PreP phase as their values depend on the values of text nodes and/or attributes. Future Expressions are evaluated at the AAP phase, taking the token list of the incoming document as input  Branches, which contains a Conditional Expression, a True Stencil which is selected when the Conditional Fi g ure 5. Documents of Identical Structure Sharin g Document Tree 
316 


Expression yields true, and a False Stencil which is selected when the Conditional Expression yields false A sample Stencil is shown in Figure 6 and described in section 4.3 The AAP phase uses the token list of the document to resolve the Stencil, by resolv ing the elements in the Stencil in order. String elements are directly emitted to the output. Future Expressions are evaluated, the result of which then converted to String and sent to the output. For each Branch element, depending on the evaluation result of its Conditional Expression, either the True Stencil or the False Stencil is selected and recursively resolved Note that Future Expressions can only take document token list as input and doesn’t have access to XSLT variables. As a result, if an expression depends on an XSL variable whose value can’t be determined at PreP phase \(because its value is conditionally updated by a conditional element\no transformation optimization for this combination of stylesheet and structure 3.3.5 Compression for Efficient Transmission Efficient transmission of XML documents is particularly important in mobile environments Structure recurrence can be exploited for compression and efficient transmission by avoiding the redundant transmission of structural information and by compressing recurring test nodes and attribute values  Assuming sender S first sends document A to receiver R and later sends to R document B which has the same structure as document A, if S knows that R has locally kept the structure information for A, then S only needs to send the structure identification of B, along with the text node and attribute values of B. Efficiency is achieved by replacing the structure of document B with the \(much shorter\identification of the structure of the document  Further, the text node and attribute values in document A has a 1-to-1 mapping with those in document B. If sender S is aware that receiver R also keeps text node and attribute values of document A, then when S detects that a value in B is the same as the corresponding value in A, S only needs to signal R to reuse the value in A, instead of retransmitting it The combination of the two offers potentially high compression ratio with very low computation overhead Note that it is not necessary for the sender and the receiver to be both aware of the existence of the compression. For example, in wireless mobile environments, the gateway of a mobile device can serve as the proxy between the outside world and the mobile device: XML documents are transmitted in compressed form between a mobile device and its gateway, while the gate way and the outside world communicate in usual text form 4 IMPLEMENTATION We have implemented in Java a XML tokenizer, a DOM-style parser, and a XSLT processor, based on Structure Encoding. The DOM-style parser is implemented as an exten sion to kXML, while the XSLT processor is implemented as an extension to XT 4.1 Tokenizer The tokenizer operates in three different modes  The Swift mode, which is activated when the incoming document contains sender assigned structure ID, and that cached token list for the structure is found  The Hash mode, which is activated when the incoming document does not contain sender assigned structure ID The hash function we use is an implementation of MD5 which generates 128-bit digests  The Nature mode, which is normal XML tokenization and is activated under all other conditions Fi g ure 6. An Exam p le of Transformation Stencil 
317 


Under Swift mode, the tokenizer checks each token in the token list, and takes different action depending on the types of the token  If it is a Text token, it reads a text string \(delimited by and may contain entity references\ the document character stream, and uses the text string to replace the value of the token  If it is a Start Element token, the tokenizer first skips a number of characters from the document character stream. The exact number of characters is determined by the length of the name of the element. It then enters a loop that reads attributes of the element. Within the body of the loop, it first checks if the next token is Attribute Name. If it is not, then the processing for the Start Element token completes. Otherwise, it skips the name of the attributes, reads the value of the attribute and updates the value of the next token \(which must be of type Attribute Value  In all other cases, the tokenizer simply skips a number of characters. The exact number of characters is determined by the type of the token and the length of the value of the token In the Nature mode, the tokenizer reads in XML constructs, makes sure that they are syntactically correct, and then converts them into tokens. Operations in Hash mode are mostly the same, except that the tokenizer also needs to send structure characters to the hash function for ID generation 4.2 Structure Encoding Based Parser Figure 7 shows a structure encoding based XML parser. It has three components: The Tokenizer as described above  The Structure Manager, which contains a cache manager that manages the reuse of document trees, and an optional Structure Optimizer, which does tree optimizations described in section 3.3.3  The Controller, which includes an interface with the kXML DOM parser. It also includes a Value Loader which does text node and attribute value reassignments The Controller falls back to kXML DOM parser, by passing to it a SAX parser implemented on top of the tokenizer, when it is unable to get a reusable document tree from the Structure Manager. Each document structure has a mapping table that associates a text node or an attribute value object with a token in the token list. The Value Loader in the Controller uses this mapping table to quickly grab text or attribute values from incoming document’s token list, and reassigns them to corresponding text node or attribute value objects. Figure 8 illustrates using Structure Encoding based parser to parse the book record document shown in Figure 1 4.3 Structure Encoding Based Transformer Figure 9 shows the components of a Structure Encoding based transformer hosted in the XT XSLT processor. Of its four components, the tokenizer and the Structure Manager are the same as in the parser The two different components are the Pre-processor and the Transformation controller Pre-processor carries out the PreP phase of structure encoding based transformation using stylesheet and document structure to generate transformation Stencil Within the document structu re, the text and attribute nodes are changed to objects of a special type, which upon access, throws a special exception which uses an integer index to indicate which text node or attribute is accessed. The structure is then treated as a regular document and fed to XT along with the stylesheet. We have also extended XT, so that any expression that may catch the above-mentioned special exception is extended into a Future Expression, which can be evaluated by taking only t oken list as input. A Future Expression in turn throws itself as a special exception which is then either caught by another Future Expression or, eventually, by an action. An action generates a result segment, which can be one of the following  A string, in the case when there is no special exception caught  A Future Expression, when one or more special exceptions are caught, and  A Branch, when the action is an IfAction generated from an xsl:if or xsl:choose XSL element.The Stencil Resolver in the Transformation Controller is called in the AAP phase after the source document arrives and a transformation is requested. It retrieves the Stencil using the stylesheet and the document structure as key, then uses the token list for the source document as input to Figure 7. A Structure Encod ing Based XML Parser 
318 


solve the Stencil, using methods described in section 3.3.4 Figure 10 shows a simple XSL stylesheet used to convert the book record document shown in Figure 1 into HTML format. Note th at it contains an xsl:if element, which tests if the “special” price is greater than zero, and if the condition is true, it outputs an onsale price. Figure 11 shows the result of the transformation Figure 6 shows the Stencil generated by the PreP phase, where i  i th entry in the mapping ta ble \(see section 4.2 Stencil” contains a Branch, which has a “GreaterThan Number Relation” that can’t be pre-evaluated, as it depends on the number value of a Text or Attribute Value token. The True Stencil of the Branch is a simple Stencil, while its False Stencil is empty 4.4 Structure Encoding Based Compression The implementation of Structure Encoding based compression for transmission is straight forward. The sender and receiver both maintain an encoding table Each entry of the table is a mapping from a structure ID to a cached document structure as well as a list of template values for attr ibutes and text nodes associated Figure 8  Example of Structure Encoding Based Figure 9. Components of a Structure Encoding Based XSLT Processor xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8 xsl:stylesheet version="1.0 xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform xsl:template match="book html head title><xsl:value-of select="title"/></title head body b><xsl:text>Author: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="author"/><br b><xsl:text>Price: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="price xsl:if test="special > 0 b><xsl:text> On Sale For: </xsl:text><xsl:value-of select="special"/></b xsl:if><br b><xsl:text>Cover: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="size/@cover"/><br b><xsl:text>Publisher: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="publisher"/><br b><xsl:text>ISBN: </xsl:text></b><xsl:value-of select="isbn"/><br br body html xsl:template xsl:stylesheet Figure 10. Transforming the Book Record into Figure 11. Result HTML File from Sample Transformation html head title>Book on XML</title head body b>Author: </b>Foo<br b>Price: </b>49.99<b> On Sale For: 34.99</b br b>Cover: </b>Paperback<br b>Publisher: </b>ABC Inc; 1st edition \(Jan. 2002\<br b>ISBN: </b>1111111111<br br body html 
319 


Table 2. Measurement Results \(all numbers are in milliseconds Tokenization Parsing Transformation 100% Cache Hit 0% Cache Hit 100% Cache Hit 0% Cache Hit Document Nature Swif t Hash kDOM Sender Assign Receiver Assign Sender Assign Receiver Assign XT Sender Assign Receiver Assign Sender Assign Receiver Assign axis 7.1 4.8 9.5 11.4 5 9.6 10.7 13 36.3 6.9 11.4 36.3 39.3 Backwards 33.3 7.4 43.4 60.7 7.6 43.7 56.1 66.6 232.2 12.9 49.5 232.7 252.4 chart 18.5 7.7 24 32.1 7.8 24.9 30.1 36.3 117.8 21.9 39.7 118 129.3 book 15.1 8.6 18.2 24.4 8.8 18.5 21.1 25.5 48.3 11.5 20.9 48.9 55.2 game 33.1 7.2 43.2 60.7 7.6 43.5 56.4 67.3 92.2 8.9 45.1 92 105.5 midsummer 1990 913.4 2311 5 4686.9 997 2332.5 4012.8 4360.8 7398.5 1475 3068 7268.1 7555.2 nitfstylized 67.3 25.1 76 105.3 27 77.3 93.8 107.7 178.3 34.4 85 188.5 204.3 recipes 164.3 99 180.1 249.2 107.6 184.8 209.9 234.3 574.4 144.3 224.1 566 585.1 sort 129.8 32.2 159.8 248.2 33 163.6 242.3 281.5 1094.9 55.6 188.1 1121.9 1174.4 sp 36.2 21.5 40 53.7 23.2 40.6 45.5 51.3 122.8 28.2 45.2 126.6 138.9 total 18.6 6.8 24.5 32.4 7.4 25 30.6 36.2 53.9 7.6 25.5 54 61.5 trend 36.5 10.8 41 62.1 10.4 41.1 66.3 70.9 2249.3 56.9 89.1 2249.3 2279.5 wai 9.1 4.5 12.5 14.2 4.6 12.6 13.4 17.1 96.4 7.7 15.8 99.9 105 with the structure \(Note that document structures and template values can be flushed out of the cache and reconstructed from files stored in persistent storage The first document of a given structure will be sent uncompressed. But an entry will be added to the encoding tables on both sender and receiver sides, with the attribute and text valu es of this first document used as template values. A following document of the given structure will be encoded as a two-byte integer indicating the index of th e structure in the encoding table, followed by the list of attribute and text string values. A special 1-byte symbol replaces any value that is an exact match of its corresponding template value Such compression is used between a mobile handset and its service gateway in cellular environments. Note that compression happens on a document send from the handset, through the gateway, to a server on the Internet, as well as on a document received by the handset through the gateway Table 1. XML Documents Used in the Experiments, and Th eir Corresponding Stylesheets Document Size in KB Stylesheet axis 0.38 Tests XPath selection along the different axes backwards 2.62 Reverses order of elements using the document used in game chart 1.29 Generates an HTML chart of some sales data book 1.21 Convertin book record to HTML game 2.62 Produces a HTML table of the data midsummer 146 Converting the play to HTML nitf-stylized 5.79 NITFML to HTML recipes 16.7 Converting Recipes in XML to HTML sort 10.3 Sorting input tree according to element name sp 3.53 Web site construction kit total 1.31 Reports on sales data trend 1.9 Computes trends in the input data wai 0.58 Schematron validator for WAI docs 
320 


5 EVALUATION Evaluation experiments described in this section are conducted on a TI OMAP 1511 Innovator device which runs in frequencies up to 200MHz. It has 32MB ROM as well as 32MB RAM. The OS used is a version of embedded Linux, and the JVM used is Intent from TAO Group The source documents and stylesheets used for evaluation are randomly selected from Sarvega’s XSLTBench and DataPower’s XSLTMark [17  after initially excluding some unrealistic transformations. We select these two benchmarks as they are influential indust ry benchmark and that they both support XSLT benchmarking. Note that some of the large source documents are less likely to have recurrent structures in real-world applications. We included them regardless as they might help us understand the implication of document size on system performance. Table 1 lists sizes of sample documents and the transformation stylesheets used for them. Table 2 lists the raw numbers used in following discussions Documents are fully read into memory before any measurement starts to minimize external disturbance Warm-up runs are always conducted prior to real measurement runs 5.1 Tokenization Figure 12 compares the speed of Swift mode and Hash mode against the speed of Nature mode tokenization The Swift mode is by far the fasted, having a median speedup of 2.40 over Nature mode. The median speed of Hash mode is about 81% of that of Nature mode which means a median hashing overhead of about 23.5%. In the worst case, this overhead is about 37.4 for wai  5.2 DOM-style Parsing Figure 13 and Figure 14 compare speed of Structure Encoding based parsing against that of kXML parsing for both Receiver ID Assigning and Sender ID Assigning. In Receiver ID Assigning, the underlying tokenizer always uses Hash mode, while in Sender ID Assigning, the tokenizer uses Swift mode when cache hit ratio is 100% \(i.e., structure of incoming document is always in cache\ode when cache hit ratio is 0 Figure 13 shows the results for the ideal case when cache hit ratio is 100%: the median relative speed is 4.34 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 1.35 when Receiver ID Assigning is used. The best case is in backwords and game which use the same source document\to 8 under Sender ID Assigning Figure 14 shows the results for the worst case when cache hit ratio is 0%: the median relative speed is 1.07 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 0.90 \(or an overhead of %11.1\ID Assigning is used. The worst sample is wai where the overhead is about 20.5% under Receiver ID Assigning. The reason Figure 12. Comparing Performance of Tokenization Modes Figure 14. Comparing Structure Encoding Based XML Parsing and kXML Parsing \(Cache Hit Ratio = 0 Figure 13. Comparing Structure Encoding Based XML Parsin g and kXML Parsin g Cache Hit Ratio 100  
321 


that Structure Encoding is a little faster than kXML even when cache hit ratio is 0 is likely because of the fact that, while we use kXML for tree building, we modified it slightly to interface it with our tokenizer which resulted in differences in execution traces and slight differences in runtime performance when execute in JVM Overall, these two figures demonstrate that Structure Encoding based parsing provides substantial speedup when structure recurrence is frequent, and incurs low overhead when such recurrence is rare 5.3 Transformation Similarly, Figure 15 and Figure 16 compare transformation speed of Structure Encoding based XSL processor against that of XT for both Sender ID Assigning and Receiver ID Assigning. Again, under Receiver ID Assigning, the underlying tokenizer always uses Hash mode, while under Sender ID Assigning, the tokenizer uses either Swift mode or Nature mode Figure 15 shows the results for the ideal case when cache hit ratio is 100%: the median relative speed of Structure Encoding based implem entation is 5.38 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 2.72 when Receiver ID Assigning is used. The best case is trend  where the relative speed is over 39 for Sender ID Assigning, and over 25 for Receiver ID assigning Figure 16 shows the results for the worst case when cache hit ratio is 0%: the median relative speed is 0.996 when Sender ID Assigning is used, and is 0.918 or an overhead of 8.9 is used. The worst sample is nitf-stylized where the overhead is about 14.6% under Receiver ID Assigning These two figures show that Structure Encoding based XSL processing offers even higher potential speedup than parsing, yet incurs lower overhead in worst cases This is understandable as, typi cally, a large portion of operations in transformation is for costly structurerelated operations, which we have pre-processed offline. Note that, as long as structure recurrence is frequent, the potential improvement is very high \(up to a median relative speed of 2.72\even if the receiver has to calculate structure ID through hashing 5.4 Compression We conducted an experiment to examine the effectiveness of Structure Encoding based compression. In the experiment, for each sample document, we randomly changed the values of 3 rd 8 th  13 th i.e., one in every 5, starting from the 3 rd  attribute and text node values. Thus our experiment Figure 16. Comparing Structu re Encoding Based Transformation and XT  Cache Hit Ratio 0  Figure 15. Comparing Structu re Encoding Based Transformation and XT  Cache Hit Ratio = 100  Table 3. Compression and its effect on tokenization speed \(Assuming changes in 20% of the text and attribute values Document Size in KB Comp Size Byte Natur e ms Swift ms Comp  ms axis 0.38 48 7.1 4.8 0.8 backwards 2.62 81 33.3 7.4 1.8 chart 1.29 91 18.5 7.7 1.3 book 1.21 129 15.1 8.6 1.1 game 2.62 81 33.1 7.2 1.8 midsummer 146 20760 1990 913.4 111.7 nitf-stylized 5.79 564 67.3 25.1 4.0 recipes 16.7 2355 164.3 99 11.4 sort 10.3 752 129.8 32.2 8.8 sp 3.53 554 36.2 21.5 2.6 total 1.31 91 18.6 6.8 1.3 trend 1.9 169 36.5 10.8 2.7 wai 0.58 15 9.1 4.5 0.6 
322 


assumes that around 20% of the attribute and text values are different from the template values Table 3 lists results from this experiment. The third column of the table shows the number of bytes transmitted for each sample document, while the 6 th column shows the time used to construct tokens from the compressed document. The table shows that, under above-described setup, the amount of data transmitted are reduced to 2.6% to 15.7% of the original size second column, listed in KB time is reduced to 5.4% to 11.3% of the Nature mode tokenization time, or 11.5% to 25% of the Swift mode tokenization time 5.5 Discussion Since in our implementations, we make changes to base systems \(KXML and XT changes are required to implement Structure Encoding performance differences demonstrated in this section are caused by differences in techniques rather than differences in implementations Our experiments clearly show that Structure Encoding can, potentially, greatly improve the efficiency of XML processing with relatively low penalty for worst cases. The worst case scenario happens when a receiver uses hash function to identify the structure of a document, only to find out that the document structure is not in cache. The penalty it pays for such worst case scenario, 11.1% for DOM-style parsing and 8.9% for transformation, can easily be compensated by future structure recurrence. Such cache-miss penalty is negligible when sender-assigning scheme is used Systems that are conscious of such client-side penalty can let the sender or anyone in the middle of the transmission path to assign ID without altering the semantics of the message or document Although we didn’t measure the impact of compression on parsing and transformation, it can be inferred from tables 2 and 3. For example, in the book case, with tokenization time reduced from 8.6ms Swift mode\s \(compressed\e will likely be further reduced from 8.8ms to around 1.3ms compared with 24.4ms for KDOM\Similarly transformation time may be further reduced from 11.5ms to around 4.0ms \(compared with 48.3ms for XT\Encoding based XML compression offers additi onal, significant performance improvements for XML parsing and transformation in mobile environments, where closelycoupled proxies commonly exists. With compression turned off, Structure Enc oding is fully compatible with Web specifications and can be used between any two Internet hosts, and it still offer very significant performance improvements when there is structure recurrence Without compression, for documents with recurrent structures, tokenization and structure hashing cost dominates the overall cost for parsing, and is the major part of the cost for transformation. Tokenization and structure hashing however are relatively simple operations that may be implemented in hardware with low cost. \(In fact, some mobile chipsets already have hardware implementation of hash functions such as MD5 for security purposes implementation can reduce tokenization and structure hashing cost to a fifth of the current cost, then there will be additional substantial improvement for the parsing and transformation of most of the documents used in our experiments In our system, a document havi ng a structure slightly different \(e.g., added a new element\from a previous structure will not be able to reuse the structure processing result of the previous structure. However our system pays off as long as this new, slightly different structure recurs in future documents 6 CONCLUSION, LIMITATIONS, AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we motivated exploiting structure recurrence to speedup XML processing in mobile environments, by reduci ng structure related transmission and processing costs. We presented the concept of Structure Encoding, and described approaches to quickly identifying recurring structures including one using collision-resistant hash function We explained in detail how to use structure encoding to speedup XML transmission, tokenization, treebuilding, and transformation. We described our implementation of st ructure encoding based tokenizer DOM parser \(based on kXML\processor \(based on XT\pression scheme. Our experiments conducted on a mobile test-bed demonstrated dramatic performance improvement in the presence of structure recurrence and low overhead otherwise. In ideal cases structure encoding offers speedups of up to 7 for parsing and over 38 for XSL transformation, and up to 97.4% in size reduction when 20% of the text and attribute values change Structure encoding, however, is not applicable to all XML applications. Rather, it is more applicable to data-centric XML processing than to document-centric XML processing. A user randomly browsing Web pages is not likely to have high structure recurrence probabilities 
323 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


