An approach to improve information sharing in a large Information System  Suela Berisha SNCF DSIT-EX/2i 5, place Jules Ferry 69006 Lyon, France Suela.berisha-bohe@sncf.fr 
 Alain Herbuel B\351atrice Rumpler SNCF DSIT-EX/2i B\342timent Blaise Pascal 7 5, place Jules Ferry Av. Jean Capelle 69006 Lyon, France Alain.herbuel@sncf.fr 
F69621 Villeurbanne, France beatrice.rumpler@insa-lyon.fr  Abstract - Actual Information Systems \(IS\companies are very complex and sometimes difficult to control even if new techniques and new integrat ed software appears to give solutions. To get a complete, fr esh and relevant information close to the IS users needs is a very difficult task, sometime impossible. We try to suggest a non-intrusive solution facilitating this task and transpar ent to the users, relaying on some concepts like \223referential repository\224, \223a priori\224 connector and semantic descriptions. Our approach aim to improve the IS organization by combining th ese concepts and technical information integration solutions I  II 
 III  INTRODUCTION Our business core is the transport of goods and passengers by rail, but severa l branches contribute to our main activity. Thus, our company employs more than 160000 persons that work to carry more than one thousand million of passengers and 100 m illion tones of freight per year, and nearly 150 professions are represented Considering these conditions, our internal IS must be suited to all activities responding to a great degree of complexity At the beginning of this paper we describe the context and main difficulties encountered in our IS. After that some solutions to improve its organization and efficiency are suggested and some perspectives are presented 
C OMPANY 222 S CONTEXT  One of the first contextual difficulties comes from the geographical spread of the company to a national level and the dispersion of information all over several remote locations and business units. Thus, information exists, but it is very difficult to exactly know where it is stored Moreover information exchange is not suitable According to the human point of view, exchanges are performed at verbal and informal levels. When there are formal exchanges between applicati ons, they follow a logical point-to-point way and such links are unstructured. Users 
can\222t have an IS overview and it\222s impossible to exactly know location of pertinent information Another contextual difficulty is the large number of business activities First, these activities change various information, or properties of a given data. Often, central databases cannot be immediately available. Since nothing better appears, business leaders have created copies of part of the central databases, accord ing to their needs, without tracing them in the central databases. Finally, nobody is able to identify \223ONE reference for a database\224, providing in real time the right information. Secondly, this heterogeneity also involves mu ltiple structures and formats 
for data storage which depends on computer technology used by different trades, imposing some practices to store and organize information, and we must respect some cognitive practices hardly changeable for users So the IS has been considerably developed through time and we must consider the history of its heritage. Our aim is not to reappraise all these developments but to integrate and make all these systems interact. To correct these problems, our way is based on the identification of some key points that considers the human and technological issues I DENTIFIED KEY POINTS  Four key elements were identified and defined as essential elements of our project. They 
are: \223referential repository\224 or metamodel repositories\biguity of the information\224 a priori connector\224 and \223interoperability\224  We propose to develop a system architecture model, based on these four key concepts Referential repository In our company, we find a lot of repositories: data warehouse repository, knowledge repository, enterprise repository, trade repository etc. But this is specific to a particular trade or company\222s branch. Our aim is to make real collaboration between all these company\222s actors, in order to discover relevant information, merging all company\222s knowledge 
Our purpose is to create a global system based on an ontological model \(called refe rential repository\bing all these repositories. The system must respond in real time to some questions, such as \223where, when, by who and how\224 data have been changed To respect the constraint of the company, our \223common referential repository\224 must be proposed as a new level over the actual organization. This approach must be combined with a previous solution based on Topic Maps technology http://www.topicmaps org/xtm/index.html  


 Ambiguity of information This previous implementati  has creat ed a common space where few references of the company have been linked, based on the idea of ontology. This permits the users to visually evaluate the overwhelming quantity of information and the great number of descriptions for a given object, depending on the specific developed trades. It is impossible for a single human to have a precise idea about all this information, and to eliminate all of the ambiguities about information, or data For example \223employee\224 is a main concept used in numerous data exchanges. This concept is related to other concepts such as "Address", \223p rofessional status\224, etc. Few people exactly know what involves "professional status for a "permanent" or for a contractual employee". The combination or expansion of these concepts provides 223information\224. For example we can find: \223agent fiscal address\224. It specifies an \223 indicator of agent fiscal address\224 for an application, or an index of agent fiscal address" for another application. Serious ambiguity problems still exist It is difficult to know what the difference of denomination means and if the "index" used for an application is the same as the "indicator" used in another application These ambiguities could be reduced by defining an intelligent data description based on domain ontology Moreover, to elaborate best solutions, we propose to investigate the areas of knowledge management and Semantic We 3 7  IV  V  N EW CONNECTOR 222 S CONCEPT  Connector\222s typology Tools which assure data exchanges between applications, provides connectors built in their communication layer. For example, an EAI \(Enterprise Application Integration sy st em can provi de t echni cal  connectors \(such as XML, EDI, ODBC, JDBC, COM CORBA, ORB, etc.\205\ication connectors \(such as ERP, CRM, G-PAO, e-commerce, BI etc 223A priori connector\224 In our approach, we propose to introduce a new concept of "connector" closely linked to the notion of a priori 224 So, for us, an a priori connector\224 is a \223logical channel\224 enabling to share information in a common area, as it is produced, even before defining prior specifications by an end user Our problem to define functional \223a priori connectors\224 refers to the problems of information sharing. In terms of definition, we forget the con cept of \223bridge\224, to keep the concept of "logical channel\224 For the company\222s culture the bridge refers to the c oncept of physical technical implementations, whereas we are putting emphasis, in a first step, on human practices based on the concept of sharing and collaboration, regardless of the physical implementation. In this context, the supplier is playing an active role in the same way as the user. He is not passive nor does waiting for some need specification. He is active he is providing exactly what he has produced and displaying his information through the communication channels, to the space-shari ng, on his own initiative. For example, in the enterprise, there is a basis for data referential of employees. Only very few specialists in the field of human resources, may know the agents code identifying, which permits to access to users data However, the goal of most of project managers is not to know confidential data about an agent nor his ID code. The interest is to know employees\222 competences. Thus, various information channels, and vari ous applications can provide information about employees. So, the idea is to be able to exactly know them. Only one person cannot know all the enterprise applications which can provide useful descriptions on agents, and therefore, she will not be able to define his needs, to specify a query to his information providers. Hence we propose the idea of a priori  connectors\224 which permits to all applications to provide their information in the co mmon area of the company But to make this information readable, it is necessary to have \223 a priori 224 interoperable connectors Interoperability A priori connector\222s interoperability results in two forms trade and technological interoperability Trade interoperability is related to a common language between different trades, about the same concepts. That involves establishing common knowledge bases to the company where concepts are described and similar meanings should be underlined. Technological inte roperability is rather tied to the choice of an infrastructure with an ar chitecture that supports the latest technology for interoperability based on the XML la  M ODELING  In order to establish a dialogue with clients, we have formalised a functional IS model, completed by a global architecture model Functional model Our representation is based on a layered model \(Figure1  


Figure 1 Layered system\222s functional model Two layers should be maintained: the existing company\222s legacy layer and the user layer. As indicated the company\222s heritage must be integrated including its history and its technologies. Our proposal is to be the least intrusive or the most transp arent possible for these two layers. Currently, users access di rectly to a third layer which is the connectors layer This must be improved and adapted to the next layer\222s prerogatives. So, our solution tries to introduce a new layer decomposed in a sub-layer model and another sub - layer metamodel domain. To be able to interact with the customer, we have oriented our study towards technologies and infrastructures provided by the domain dealing with these two layers \(\247VI. The proposed solution Architecture model According to the needs and requirements specified by the customer, and by mutual agreement, we have developed and formalized an architectural model \(Figure 2 Our added value is related to the referential of data base repository layer that will contain the modeling \(model and metamodel\layer of the solution. This referential repository information will se rve as an interface between the user and the enterprise assets. Most of the actual problems lie at this level. In this first model, we use the concept of a registry \(like UDDI registry 1 n order to allow a dialogue with company\222s actors. With our study\222s refinement and our proposal 222s development, we will introduce the two sub-layers of modeling. The first sub layer model will     1  http://www.uddi.org/pubs/uddi_v3.htm  Figure 2. Global architecture model correspond to the UDDI Registry concept and the second sub layer meta-model will correspond to an ontological description of information domain. That is where the organization of information must be studied and where the Semantic Web can bring a solution  VI  T HE PROPOSED SOLUTION  Several technologies for integrating information emerged with the IS evoluti  We carried out a comparative study in order to choose the best solution for our context and our prerogatives Technologies comparison The first studied is the ETL Extract Transform Load technology It has al ready been devel oped si nce 70\222s and it is well-known by our customers and different actors of the business area Next, we examined the EAI Technology \(Enterprise Application Integration 9 present i n t h e fi el d of research since 90 years and actually considered like an emergent technology in the company. Finally, we studied the EII technology \(Enterprise Information Integration   whi c h i s real l y em ergi ng, si nce t h e begi nni ng of 2000 A first comparison criterion is their functioning The solution Thanks to a comparison between these technologies, we have chosen the best one for our solution. So, in our project, the data exists some where, but the access is very hard. The project managers or architects  especially need fragments of information like a database repository localization containing a given data, its guarantor, the connection mode, the data update frequency, etc. So, an overview of business information and/or data coming from multiple sources is needed. Additionally, we have to respect some data quality criteria, such as freshness or relevance to the context of use. These criteria involve concepts of time and dynamic exchange. In fact, these reasons drive us to select the EII technology. Respective systems are composed of three main parts: the information producer or provider, an assembly and disassembly site and a user \(Figure 3   a priori connecto r shared by Figure 3. EII system\222s functioning m embershi p relation 


ESB infrastructure The ESB infrastructure supports a SOA-based architecture, the concept of \223loose coupled\224 between applications [1] and the serv ices management according to a model domain of these servi C onsi d eri ng our connector\222s definition, there are concepts corresponding to a priori connector\222s notion. The ESB has been designed for bearing the EAI difficulties They appear more modular and scalable. We are studying this scalability. The bus manages services thanks to the orchestration choreography, mediation and discovery. The semantic descriptions of services and their organization make possible these actions. Thereafter our studies will focus on the standard\222s implementation of Semantic Web Services  3 7 and t h ei r cont ri but i ons t o our sy st em  VII    PERSPECTIVES Thanks to our solution we can highlight some perspectives which can be organized in two categories: \223formalization and modeling aspect\224 and 223practical evaluation\224 A  Formalization - Modeling Thus we will focus on the flow of technology and Semantic Web concepts in international trade applications This will be done in part of the ESB infrastructure based on SOA \(Service Oriented Architecture  e will study the semantic standards description of services such OWL-S 2 and SAWSDL 3 The goal is to define and describe our model and meta-model of the domain involving these services B  Experimentation and practical evaluation Another line of work is the research and the comparison of different orchestration and mediation models, in order to select relevant patterns services bus to our study context The purpose of our experimentation is to gradually increase the degree of complexity in the search of a specific service, the size and structure of messages exposed and to explore the limits of the system and its feasibility thresholds. By studying the field gradually, we hope to offer a generic model, adaptable to other contexts of the company, with associated recommendations for use, and functional requirements. And it is precisely here that the two areas must merge. As indicated, we follow an incentive way to integrate our customers in our project. First, we have proposed a bus \(ALSB of BEA 4 exposing a very small number of services in order to obtain some visible results immediately noticeable or perceptible by the customer. We wish to increase the number of offered services and move to a domain more and more evolved Therefore, the second step will be to put the emphasis on  2  http://www.w3.org/Submission/2004/07 3  http://www.w3.org/TR/sawsdl 4  http://e-docs.bea.com/alsb/docs20/index.html composition \(simple or aggregat es\according to criteria such as business management rules or existing bus patterns. In this way, we attempt to increase the degree complexity by creating new business processes through the orchestration of services VIII  C ONCLUSION  Our research is strongly applied to a big corporation\222s IS which has a lot of specificities and exceptions in its profession. That has guided our approach, in addition to the IS users. Therefore, we star ted with a comparative study between different technologies in data integration to continue with a comparison between various infrastructures supporting the exchange of such data. To optimize these exchanges, to be as least intrusive as possible, and propose a global model of exchange adapted to the size of related IS, we advocate a system that primarily supports information\222s descriptions. Indeed, the company has already established systems, tested data exchange, but weaknesses still remain in the exchange of information related to this data We believe that information produced by anyone within the enterprise must be seen as a service provided to the whole company. Our problematic focuses on the data access and their federation, the implementation of the common information\222s sharing area will take the form of an Enterprise Service Bus \(ESB  Thus, the management of these services brings us back to the management of shared information. We will therefore continue to explore standards that exist for the organization and management of services and the information conveyed by an ESB R EFERENCES   1  Chappell D., 2004. Enterprise Service Bus, Theory in practice O\222Reilly, 1st edition    Fensel D et al  2007 E n abling Sem a ntic W e b Ser v ices  Spr i nger   ISBN 3-540-34519-1    Hepp M  et al  2008 Ontology m a nagem e nt: Sem a ntic W e b  Semantic Web Services and Busine ss Applications. Springer ISBN 978-0387-69899-1    Spackm a n M  et al  2005 Solutions pour l\222 E A I  M i cr osoft Pr ess  France, 1st edition, ISBN 2-10-048764  Studer R. et al., 2007. Semantic Web Services: Concepts, Technologies and Applications. Springer, 1st edition, Germany  5  Halevy A. et al., 2005.Enterprise In formation Integration: Successes Challenges and Controversies. In SIGMOD '05 June 1416, Baltimore Maryland USA 6  Halevy A. et al., 2006. Data Integration: The teenage Years. In VLDB \22106, September 12-15, 2006, Seoul, Korea, ACM 1-59593-3859/06/09    Papazoglou M P   et al  2007 Ser v ice Or iented Ar chitectur es approaches, technologies and research issues. In VLDB Journal, Springer    Schm idt M  T  et al  2005 T h e E n ter p r i se Ser v ice Bus M a king service-oriented architecture real In IBM SYSTEMS JOURNAL, VOL 44, NO 4, ACM    Suther land J et al  2002 E n te rprise Application Integration and Complex Adaptive Systems, In Vol. 45, No. 101, ACM  Vassiliadis P et al., 2002. Con ceptual Modeling for ETL Processes In DOLAP\22202, mcLean Virginia USA, ACM 1-58113-590-4/02/0011 


 White C., 2006 Data Integrati on: Using ETL, EAI, and EII Tools to create an Integrated Enterprise. In Report Expert BI Research, What Works: Volume 21  Vignon O., 2007. Semantic W e b, s o lution es tablis hment for representation and consulting of enterprise repositories, CNAM \226 Lyon 


As an example, Figure 5-1 illustrates the fault stage classification procedure for a sy stem with three fault stages Transient features are a pplied to all GM-HMMs         Figure 5-1 Block diagram for a GM-HMM based  classifier  The fault stage classification can be made based on Bayes\222 Theorem. Denote A c as the event that observation y comes from cluster c We are interested in estimating the posterior probability P  A c  y es\222s Theorem         where c 1, 2, \205 G The observation y belongs to cluster c  if P  A c  y  Max  P  A k  y  k 1, 2, \205 G  6  T EST R ESULTS U SING L AB D ATA  6.1 Data Description  To test the performance of our bearing health monitoring algorithms, we have conducted a series of laboratory experiments and obtained a set of bearing vibration signals The bearing coating thickness is 4800\305 and a load of 150 lbs was applied. The test duration was 2000 minutes Acceleration data were recorded on two channels at 5.0 Hz sampling frequency. Two channe ls provide the chance to limit part of the noise and also provide with information  about the optimum placement of the sensors. Table 6-1 summarizes the operating conditions for this experiment  Table 6-1 226 Operating conditions for one experiment      Figure 6-1 shows the vibration data at one channel. The major change of the accelera tion data occurs after the healthy condition of bearing illustrating high vibration peaks. While bearing working at healthy condition, i.e. the first 600 minutes, the acceleration response is bounded within    6 determines the volume of the k th cluster D k its orientation and A k its shape  261 2V. As the coating wears out, the balls begin to touch the bare metal surface As a result, the vibration signal register \223impact-type\224 shocks that appear as spikes. It should be noted that to extract detailed information for feature analysis, the gain on the system was chosen as 100x based on the healthy working condition, i.e. when coating was available. Hence, when the balls contact the races and spikes occur, the signal exce eds the DAQ board\222s margin and this result in a saturated signal          Figure 6-1 Vibration signal over a period of 2000 minutes  Figure 6-2 shows the friction data collected in the same experiment. From the friction data, we can see the evolution of bearing faults. There are fo ur stages marked as Normal Fault A, Fault B and Fault C, which are not easily observable in the vibration data shown in Figure 6-1. The challenging task is to detect these four stages from the vibration data alone. The friction data is used as the reference signal for the algorithm development only          Figure 6-2 Friction signal collected in the same  experiment and four bearing stages  Microscopic examination of the races at the conclusion of the experiment revealed meta l on metal contact. Shown in Figure 6-3, this evidence is limited to parts of the ball finger print on the race. The ball footprint as can be seen in Figure 6-3 is toward the outer edge of groove. Contrary to the ungrooved bearings, no packing effect can be seen in the turning points of the ball footprint. This is due to the fact that ball cages have 12 balls in grooved bearing contrary to 8 balls in un-grooved ones which with 30 degree oscillations cover the turning points of neighbor ball and prevent the packing  Figure 6-4 shows a close-up of the highlighted area in Figure 6-3. Delaminated plates of oxide layer are formed because of sub-surface cracks propagation. Formation and wear of oxide layer can be regarded as the major friction controlling mechanism        5-8 265\r 265 r y y y y y  013 013   G k kkkk cccc c c f f P AP AP 1      


   7              Figure 6-3 Ball fingerprint on the race of wear track                Figure 6-4 Ball fingerprint on the race of oxidative wear  6.2 Feature Space  The vibration data shown in Figure 6-1 is used to construct the feature space. Both Shan non entropy and infinity-norm of random covariance matrix are estimated. Figure 6-5 shows the DoR measures together with the vibration data and related friction data. In this figure, the third plot shows the temporal trend of Shannon entropy and the bottom plot is the temporal trend of random covariance matrix inf-norm  It can be observed that both Shannon entropy and random covariance matrix inf-norm have accurately captured the bearing fault evolution. Alth ough the four stages are not  clear in the vibration data, they are clearly observable in the  DoR trends. Moreover, the trend shapes of Shannon entropy and random covariance matrix inf-norm are very similar which indicates that the random covariance matrix inf-norm can be used as an effective measure of randomness of random variables  Since randomness of Fault C is relatively similar to the randomness of Fault A and Fault B, we only construct three feature vectors associated with Normal, Fault A and Fault B In fact, based on tribological an alysis, the stage of Fault C is directly related to bearing failure. In other words, when the bearing is in the stage of Fau lt C, the system can no longer operate appropriately                            Figure 6-5 Temporal trend of Shannon entropy 3 rd and inf-norm of random covariance matrix bottom\imated from the vibration data \(top The four stages of bearing faults can be clearly seen in the DoR trends  Figure 6-6 shows three cluste rs in the feature space which are associated with three bearin g stages. It can be observed that these three clusters are well separated, which indicates that the features made of Shannon entropy and random covariance matrix infinity-norm can be used to identify the fault stages of the ball bearing. However, the Fault C cluster is missing, which makes it impossible to classify this stage based on clusters. In our monitoring algorithms, we use GM-HMM to infer this fault stage             Figure 6-6 Feature space with three well-separated feature clusters associated with fault modes  


   8 6.3 Fault Classification Using GM-HMM  We have applied 10% of the data shown in Figure 6-1 for the training of a GM-HMM. Three separate GM-HMMs were trained, each representing one stage  Normal, Fault A or Fault B. They were then fused to generate the final states from the complete model. We then applied all of the data including training data\o the  trained GM-HMM. The state transitions are shown in Figure 67. In this figure, the four fault states are obtained from the analysis of randomness of the signal \(see Figure 6-5                    Figure 6-7 Classification of GM-HMM using the feature space shown in Figure 6-6  From Figure 6-7, we make the following observations  1  GM-HMM made the correct transition from 223Normal\224 to \223Fault A\224. Th ere is a small transient transition period in which states \223Normal\224 and 223Fault A\224 alternate frequently. This phenomenon makes physical sense since mechanical system changes states gradually  2  After the transient tran sition from \223Normal\224 to 223Fault A\224, the bearings are in \223Fault A\224 state. As the bearings are wearing out gradually, they start a  long transition period with states varying among 223Normal\224, \223Fault A\224 and \223Fault B\224  3  Bearing stay at \223Fault B\224 fo r a long period of time  4  As bearings continue wearing out, they enter in a new state which is not modeled by GM-HMM during the training phase. One can see that the states vary between \223Fault A\224 and \223Fault B\224 Based on the tribological analysis, data in this region are associated with bearing failure or \223notuseable\224 stage. Although our GM-HMM does not provide a new state for this region of data, it can clearly be inferred through the frequent transitions between two fault states, \223Fault A\224 and \223Fault B\224  In many industrial applications, the data related to machinery failure are difficult, if not impossible, to get. It is practically important to infer the failure state using nonfailure data. The results shown in Figure 6-7 clearly indicate that GM-HMM can be used to predict bearing failures without actually using the failure data C ONCLUSIONS  We present a feasibility analysis for the development of an online ball bearing fault detection and identification method which can effectively identify va rious fault stages related to the dynamics of vibration related to the contact in the coated ball bearings. To detect the ball bearing faulty stages, we have developed a new degree of randomness \(DoR\nalysis methodology using Shannon entropy and random matrix theory. Test results have shown that DoR can be used to detect the small abnormal tran sient signals associated with the bearing friction and wear evolution. To identify the fault stages, we have further developed a set of stochastic models using hidden Markov model \(HMM\ theory. Instead of using the discrete sequences, our HMM can incorporate the feature vectors modeled as Gaussian mixtures. To facilitate online fault identification, we build a HMM for each fault stage. At each evaluation time, all models are evaluated and the final health determination is refined based on individual detections. Test results using laboratory experiment data have shown that our system can identify coated ball bearing faults in near real-time  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The work is supported by NASA STTR Phase II funding under contract NND08AA57C. We thank Dr. John Vian at The Boeing Company for valuable discussions REFERENCES 1 aid RR, H a b e tler TG  Stack JR 2 003  Stator current analysis for bearing damage detection in induction motors  Proceeding of 4 th IEEE International Symposium on Diagnostics for Electric Mach ines, Power Electronics and Drives, pp. 182 - 187  Dem p sey  P Le wicki DG Decke r HJ 2 0 0 4   Investigation of Gear and Bearing Fatigue Damage Using Debris Particle Distributions NASA/TM 2004-212883  R o em er M J B y i ngt on C S  2 0 0 7  Prognostics and Health Management Software For Gas Turbine Engine Bearings Proceedings of the ASME Turbo Expo. New York: ASME 4 en J, Ka m a rain en  JK, Lin d h  T, Aho l a J, Kalv iain en H, Partanen J \(2005 Diagnosis tool for motor condition monitoring   IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications Volume 41, Issue 4, July-Aug.  Page\(s\963 \226 971 5 a n do  LE \(1 996  Technology Overview: Shock Pulse Method. Joint Oil Analysis Program Pensacola Fltechnical Support Center, ADP010177 6   Pen g YH Y a m R \(2 001   Wavelet Analysis and Envelope Detection for Rolling Element Bearing Fault 


   9 Diagnosis\227Their Effectiveness and Flexibilities Journal of vibration and acoustics, Vol. 123 \(3\ pp. 303 - 310 7 Y a ng  Y  Yu  D J C h en g JS \(2 007  A fault diagnosis approach for roller bearing based on IMF envelope spectrum and SVM Measurement Vol. 40\(9-10\pp. 943 950 8  X F 2 00 7  A joint wavelet lifting and independent component analysis approach to fault detection of rolling element bearings Smart Materials & Structures Vol.16 \(5 pp. 1973-1987 9 n t o n i J R a n d a ll RB 2006  The spectral kurtosis application to the vibratory surveillance and diagnostics of rotating machines Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, Vol. 20\(6\, pp. 308 \226 331 10 Stack JR H a r l ey RG H a b e tler TG   2004  An amplitude modulation detector for fault diagnosis in rolling element bearings IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 51 \(5\, pp. 1097-1102 1 Le ona rd  N E. a n d Kri s hna p r asad P S  1 9 9 2   Adaptive Friction Compensation for Bi- Directional LowVelocity Position Tracking Proceeding of the 31st Conference on Decision and Control, Tucson, Arizona, pp 267-273 12 Ar m s tr o n g H e louv r y B   199 1  Control of Machines with Friction Kluwer Academic Publishers 1 K h ons ari  M M and B o os er, ER  2 0 0 8   Applied Tribology- Bearing Design and Lubrication John Wiley and Sons, 2 nd Edition, Sussex, UK 1 M i y a ke S  and Ta kahas h i  S 1 9 8 7   Small \226Angle Oscillatory Performance of Solid-Lubricant Film Bearings For Vacuum Applications ASLE Transactions, V. 30, pp 248-253  H a n d Mack, RA \(1975 Experimental Investigation of Torque Noise in Satellite Bearings Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets V. 12, pp. 146-150  MN and Ha rris  T A 2001 Fatigue Failure Progression in Ball Bearings Journal of Tribology, V. 123 pp. 238-242 1  Oca k H  L opa r o KA 2 0 0 1   A new bearing fault detection and diagnosis scheme based on hidden Markov modeling of vibration signals Proceedings of  2001 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, Volume 5, 7-11 May 2001 Page\(s\:3141 - 3144 vol.5 1 Z h an g X  Xu R Kwa n C Lian g SY  Xie Q Hay n es L  2005 An integrated approach to bearing fault diagnostics and prognostics Proceedings of American Control Conference, 8-10 June 2005 Page\(s\:2750 - 2755 vol. 4 19 Ling B, Kh on sar i MM \(20 07  Online Tribology Ball Bearing Fault Detection and Identification Proceedings of SPIE Defense and Security Symposium, 9 - 13 April 2007 Orlando, Florida 2 Hic k ey RJ  1 9 8 3  Majorization, randomness and some discrete distributions J. Appl. Prob. 20, 897-902 2  W i gne r E P  19 5 1  On a class of analytic functions from the quantum theory of collisions Ann. Math. 53, 36 22 D yso n F 1 962  Statistical theory of the energy levels of complex systems J. math. Phys. 3, 140 23 Rojk ov  V, Kh alil Y Elmag h rab y A Kan t arzic M 2007 Use of simulation and random matrix theory to identify the state of network traffic 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Signal Processing and Information Technology 24 Plerou  V   G o p i kr ishn an  P, Rosenow B, A m ar al L Guhr T, Stanley H \(2002 Random matrix approach to cross correlations in financial data Physical Review E. Vol. 65 2 R o bert s  E W 19 8 7  The tribology of sputtered molybdenum disulfide film Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Tribology-Friction Lubrication, Fifty Years on, V. 1, pp. 503-510 26 Jayn es ET \(1 957   Information theory and statistical mechanics Phys Rev 106:620-630   Dr. Ling received his M.S. in Applied Mathematics \(1990\ Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering \(1993\, both from Michigan State University. He has served as a Principle Investigator for numerous government funded research projects. He is a co-founder and President & CEO of Migma Systems, Inc. Dr. Ling is a Senior IEEE Member \(1998\nd a part-time faculty member at Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Northeastern Un iversity, teaching graduate courses of engineering mathematics, digital control systems and statistical signal pr ocessing since 2002  Michael Khonsari  received his Ph.D from The University of Texas at Austin. He holds the Dow Chemical Endowed Chaired Professorship in Mechanical Engineering at Louisiana State University \(LSU where he directs the Center for Rotating Machinery \(CeRoM\r to joining LSU, he served as a faculty at The Ohio State University University of Pittsburgh, and Southern Illinois University He also served as a Faculty Fellow at NASA Glenn Research Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force, and DOE Pittsburgh Energy Technology Ce nter. His research interest is in the area of tribology. He has published over 150 archival journal articles in this field  Ataollah Mesgarne jad received his B.Sc. degree from Islamic Azad University in 2005 and his M.Sc from Amirkabir University of Technology in 2007 at Tehran Iran, in Mechani cal Engineering Since 2008 he is pursuing his Ph.D. degree in department of mechanical engineering and is a research assistantship in Cent er of Rotating Machinery in Louisiana State University. Hi s research interests include 


   10 stress analysis of soft thin coatings and prognosis analysis of coated mechanical components  Ross Hathaway is the Propulsion Group Lead in the Aerodynamic and Propulsion Research Branch at NASA Dryden Flight Research Center.  He has over 30 years in the aerospace field with flight test experience on a variety of aircraft such as F-15, F/A-18, AV-8B, C-17 MD-90, X-43 and X-45A. Mr Hathaway received a BS in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Missouri Columbia in 1974 and a MS in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Missouri, Rolla in 1984. Mr. Hathaway has a broad range of knowledge and experience on anything related to propulsion and flight testing.  He was the Dryden Chief Engineer on the Unpiloted Combat Air Vehicle program and is currently the Dryden Chief Engineer on any NASA related C-17 flight testi ng.  He is also the COTR on several SBIR/STTR contracts such as the Online Real-Time Tribology Failure Detection System Phase II STTR  


Information content is improved by identifying key target characteristics such as turning ratio threat level and mul titarget separation Increasing information content while d ecreasing bandwidth is the goal of the Boeing Intelligent Gat eway BIG being developed BIG is an intelligent gateway that uses a highly parallel state machine to implement a set o f distributed services such as intelligent data association for improving the quality of information with reduced bandwidth R EFERENCES 1 S  S  B l a c k m a n   M u l t i p l e t a r g e t t r a c k i n g w i t h r a d a r a p plications in Artech House  1986 pp 357–395 2 P  K  B  S  Y  C h u m m u n M  R   K i r u b a r a j a n T    F a s t data association using multidimensional assignment with clustering in IEEE trans On Aerospace and Electronic Systems  Vol 37 No 3 2001 pp 898–912 3 S  T  K  P  T c h a m o v a A   D e z e r t J    T a r g e t t r a c k i n g w i t h generalized data assocoation based on the general dsm rule of combinaton in Proceedings of Fusion 2004  Stockholm Sweden 4 M  L o o k s  A  L e v i n e  G  A  C o v i n g t o n  R  P  L o u i  J W Lockwood and Y H Cho Streaming hierarchical clustering for concept mining in Aerospace Conference AERO  Mar 2007 pp 1–12 5 R  D u d a a n d P  H a r t  Pattern Classication and Scene Analysis  John Wiley and Sons Mar 1973 6 M  E s t l i c k  M  L e e s e r  J  T h e i l e r  a n d J  J  S z y m a n s k i  Algorithmic transformations in the implementation of kmeans clustering on recongurable hardware in FPGA  2001 pp 103–110 Online  A v a i l a b l e  citeseer.ist.psu.edu/estlick01algorithmic.html 7 M  L e e s e r  J  T h e i l e r  M  E s t l i c k  N  K i t a r y e v a  and J Szymanski Effect of data truncation in an implementation of pixel clustering on a custom computing machine 2000 Online  A v a i l a b l e  citeseer.ist.psu.edu/leeser00effect.html 8 G  A  C o v i n g t o n  C  L  C o m s t o c k  A  A  L e v i n e  J  W  Lockwood and Y H Cho High speed document clustering in reconigurable hardware in 16th Annual Conference on Field Programmable Logic and Applications FPL  Madrid Spain Aug 2006 pp 411–417 9 A  N g  M  J o r d a n  a n d Y  W e i s s   O n s p e c t r a l clustering Analysis and an algorithm 2001 Online  Available citeseer.ist.psu.edu/ng01spectral.html 10 C  E  S H A N N O N   C o m m u n i c a t i o n i n t h e p r e s e n c e o f noise in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE VOL 86 NO 2  1998 pp 447–457 11 J  W  L o c k w o o d  N  M c K e o w n  G  W a t s o n  G  G i b b  P Hartke J Naous R Raghuraman and J Luo Netfpga an open platform for gigabit-rate network switching and routing in International Conference on Microelectronic Systems Education  2007 12 J  L u o  J  P e t t i t  M  C a s a d o  J  L o c k w o o d  a n d N  M c K eown Prototyping fast simple secure switches for ethane in Hot Interconnects  Stanford CA Aug 2007 13 N  D u k k i p a t i  G  G i b b  N  M c K e o w n  a n d J  Z h u  Building a rcp rate control protocol test network in Hot Interconnects  Stanford CA Aug 2007 pp 91–98 B IOGRAPHY John Meier is a Boeing Technical Fellow in the Network Centric Thrust at Phantom Works NCO Thrust He has over 27 years of professional experience in avionic technology development specically working in the area of intelligent networking recongurable computing architectures and wireless network management At Boeing he is currently involved with several key technical activities including a major project on edge computing and intelligent distributed system management Mr Meier earned his BS from Southern Illinois University Carbondale SIU-C MS University of Missouri Rolla UMR and currently working on his PhD degrees from the Department Computer Science Engineering CSE at the Washington University in St Louis He is a member of IEEE and Tau Beta Pi Todd Sproull is a Doctoral Candidate pursuing his DSc in Computer Engineering at Washington University in Saint Louis He is a Research Assistant and member of the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University His interests include peer-to-peer overlay networks recongurable computing and network security He has worked in the industry at Xilinx Research Labs Network Physics and IBM He earned a BS degree in Electrical Engineering at Southern Illinois Univ ersity in Edwardsville and an MS in Computer Engineering at Washington University He is a member of IEEE Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu G Adam Covington is a Research Associate of the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University in St Louis Adam's research interests include recongurable systems articial intelligence clustering and classication and applications of articial intelligence algorithms Upon completing a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Engineering in 2003 Adam earned his Masters of Science degree in Computer Science and Engineering from Washington University in December of 2006 He is currently visiting Stanford to implement data clustering on the NetFPGA platform and help assemble NetFPGA test systems 11 


John W Lockwood designs and implements networking systems in recongurable hardware During 2007 he served as a Visiting Associate Professor at Stanford University to manage the Alpha and Beta releases of the NetFPGA Prior to working at Stanford he led the the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University The RNG research group developed the Field programmable Port Extender FPX to enable rapid prototype of extensible network modules in Fie ld Programmable Gate Array FPGA technology As an Associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Washington University in Saint Louis He has published over 75 full-length papers in journals and major technical conferences that describe technologies for prov iding extensible network services in wireless LANs and in high speed networks Professor Lockwood has served as the principal investigator on grants from the National Science Foun dation Xilinx Altera Nortel Networks Rockwell Collins  and Boeing He has worked in industry for AT&T Bell Laboratories IBM Science Applications International Corpo ration SAIC and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications NCSA He served as a co-founder of Global Velocity a networking startup company focused on high-speed data security Dr Lockwood earned his MS BS and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois He is a member of IEEE ACM Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu 12 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


