Method of DEM data’s processing in flood simulation system  Sun Hai, Wang Cheng, Ren Bo Digital Engineering and Simulation Center, HuaZhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan, Hubei Province 430074, P. R. CHINA Tel /Fax: 15871828937/ \(86\-27-87543992    E-mail: sean0406@126.com  Abstract Flood simulation and forecasting is a hot topic of flood disaster research. DEM as the basic data plays a crucial role in the field. High resolution grid DEM data is able to supply exact terrain model to this work, but it brings on a bothering problem that the data is too big to reduce running efficiency in computer Facing the issue, the paper tries to solve the problem of high resolution DEM data’s processing and transferring. A new flood simulation method is introduced first. It brings a simple and efficient simulate method to simulate flood on high resolution DEM data. And then, a WebGIS based system is designed as flood simulation function’s running platform. Advanced WebGIS technologies lead an efficient transferring way to DEM data and other relative images Keywords-DEM; flood simulation; system structure I  I NTRODUCTION  Flood is a body of water that covers normally dry land Most floods are harmful. They may destroy homes and other property and even carry off the topsoil, leaving the land barren. Sudden and violent floods, which leave people little time to prepare, may bring huge losses. Rivers, lakes, or seas may flood the land. River floods are more common, though lake and seacoast floods can be more serious. So that, the flood simulation and forecasting is an important topic for human being, especially for who lives in the city nearby water resource With the development of hydrology, computer science remote sensing, GIS and others technologies, there are many new methods and advanced concepts using to simulate and forecast flood for people. But most of them are aim at largescale region, such as a big river valley, server provinces and so on In fact, many flood disaster are occur at one or more places on the embankment. If the occur place near the city or downtown, it will lead a terrible disaster to these local people and their homeland. For the reason, downtown flood disaster simulation is another hot aspect On the other hand, DEM data is foundation of the flood simulation. As we know, downtown flood disaster simulation need high resolution grid data as data base, because it is able to supply exact terrain model to simulate accurately flood result But high resolution grid data lead to a bothering problem that the data is too big to reduce running efficiency in computer The paper tries to solve the problem of high resolution DEM data’s processing and transferring. A new flood simulation method is introduced first. It brings a new and efficient simulate method to simulate flood on high resolution DEM data. And then, a WebGIS based system structure is designed for flood simulation function’s running, advanced web technology are lead an efficient transferring and management way to DEM data and other related images II  A LGORITHM OF FLOOD SIMULATION  A  Research background Flood disaster always come form two reasons. The first is rainstorm. In this situation, water is collected by all downfold wholly raining region’s water levels are almost the same. So we called it “no-source flood”. Based on the principle, it is easy to simulate that just used a custom height plane to cover DEM 4  The other flood reason is by break dam or overflow from water source \(e.g.: River, sea, etc.\. Water moves from the accident place and diffuses to aro und place. It is called “source flood”. The method of the flood region confirmed is different to the first situation. It is a complex process that too many factors have to be considered, such as terrain, flux, drain and so on. Aim at this situation, the paper well discus more at later section B  Algorithm principle  According to the basic principle of flood, the paper focuses on the simulation of the “source flood”. Through the submergence phenomenon, we can find that water’s moving is coming form source point. The moving track likes a loop diffusing one circle after another \(as Figure.1\.  It is the basic principle of the “source flood”. On the other side, the expansion operation of mathematical morphology leads an available idea to flood simulation. Water’s moving is able to be described by theory of mathematical morphology 
2008 International Conference on Computer Science and Software Engineering 978-0-7695-3336-0/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CSSE.2008.706 50 
2008 International Conference on Computer Science and Software Engineering 978-0-7695-3336-0/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CSSE.2008.706 50 


 Therefore, learn from the expansion operation of mathematical morphology and basic principle of flood, based on the DEM data’s characteristics, a new flood edge detection method, “Ring” research method are designed. On the grid format of DEM data, the method purposes to simulate the flood diffusing. Point searching begins at the central point accident point\ and the first circle is composed of the 8neighbour points around that. Finished the first circle’s searching and judgment, the second circle’ searching is beginning in a sequence. The second circle contains the points surrounding the first circle. In this order, the “Ring” method is implemented as the figure.2  With the searching way, the second research part is how to judge the point is flooded or not. As we know, water move need two necessary conditions: 1.The region have to connect to flooded area. 2. The region is lower than connective flooded point’s water level. So that, the flood point judgment has to satisfy the two necessary conditions On the grid format DEM data, terrain is described as regular and dispersal units. So that, when judging one point flood or not, we have to get two values: the first is the unknown point’s elevation which gets from DEM and the second values are connective points’ flood values. These values are the water level of the connective flooded points which come from former result. Based on the searching method, there are four neighborhood points value must to be got. As the figure.2, to judge unknown point A, we need to get he A’s around 4 relative points’ values from result array According to the 4 connective points’ values, if the A’s elevation is lower than the minimum of the 4 flooded points water level, A is able to be judged as flooded point. But if the 4 points do not flood yet or they are all lower than its elevation, the point is not able to be flooded C  Algorithm design As the discussing and analyzing to the basic principle of Ring” method above, detailed application flow is design as follow 1  Read DEM data to memory as an array. Register the location of accident point in the array 2  With input parameters, such as time, water flux and other necessary flood parameters, compute the maximum flood region in flood model. The maximum flood region limit maximum search circle number 3  Get the correlative points’ value as contrast array from former circle 4  According to the “Ring” method, search point from 1 to maximum circle and judge every point by contrast array 5  Limit the searching region by maximum searching region. If all points are judged, finish the program In the practice application, there are two mainly problems come out. The first is high resolution grid data can supply exact terrain model, but the data lead to a bothering problem that the data is too big to reduce the efficiency in computer. In the research, the flood simulation is aim at downtown region so high resolution grid data are necessary. To address the problem of large data quantity, partial-read method is chosen As we know that, flood simulation computing do not need all DEM data. Based on that, when get maximum region form flood model’s computing, circum-rectangle of maximum region can be get also. In this way, large DEM data separate to two parts by circum-rectangle, one is available part which input to memory for processing, and the other part is useless part which is out of circum-rectangle and do not need to input Because of the regular structure of DEM, partial-read method is easy to implement The second problem is after once single “Ring” method processing, many error regions exist, which are the points that should be flooded but not register on the result. Facing the problem, a modify function has to be designed in the program The modify function’s implement is based on the “Ring method also. It is running after first “Ring” searching. After the flood simulation compute, first step of modify function is to find error edge points. Edge points are the unflooded points whose 8-neighbour exist one or more flooded point in the flood result. So the error edge point is one edge point which should be flooded but not. The second step is to use “Ring method function to process again with the error edge point as central point. Repeat above two step until there are no error edge point. After modify function process, there are no error point exit on the result III  S YSTEM STRUCTURE  A  system design In recent years, with Internet growing in unimaginable speed and won the general popularity around the world WebGIS, a new technology of information management based on web, have been widely adopted by many fields. There are two obvious characteristics belong to the WebGIS. One side WebGIS, could deal with large quantity of data and supply advanced information management service the same as general GIS 1 the other side, as the Internet can spread information to a multitude of users, WebGIS is available to a wider range of public users though the Internet 3 On the other hand, nicer system structure design lead to high-speed data transfer and high-performance network server which should support the  Figure.1 sketch map  Figure.2 Searching way of “Ring” method 
51 
51 


Web-GIS based flood simulation and information management system. In addition, with the fast development of modern network technology, data transfer won’t be an obstacle anymore in the near future   According to the analysis of technical and application characteristics, the flood simulation and information management system is designed based on web-GIS. It is able to satisfy requirements of data’s transferring and users facility. B/S architecture is adopted as basic framework by system. \(Contrasting to Client/Server \(C/S\ B/S is more flexible and expandable and is easier to maintain, moreover, it can make the information more open to the public 4 The system selects the product ArcServer 9.2 and ArcSDE 9.1 of the ESRI Company as basis development platform and Visual stdio.NET \(.NET\ as development tool The architecture of the information management system is designed according to the multi-tier middleware mode. It is composed of four tiers: data tier, data service tier, web server tier and browser tier. \(Figure.3 Browser Tier In the structure, browser tier is an interface of system to users by browsers. With friendly interface, it is a flexible interaction platform between users and system. Facing the users, browser tier receives requests and return result by pages Browser Tier actions are handled by JavaScript functions Each Client Tool Action on the map and page layout controls such as Circle, Drag Image, and Drag Rectangle, calls a particular JavaScript function. It is the responsibility of the JavaScript function once executed to post back to the control to execute the server-side action Web server tier The tier is composed of web server application and web service. Web server application contains all applications of system modules which are implemented by web application development framework \(ADF\of .NET. Web service is a set of functionality located on a Web server whose methods and properties can be accessed over the Internet. The Web service class methods return values packaged as Extensible Markup Language \(XML\ documents; therefore any application capable of reading XML can call the Web service methods and use the results Data Service tier Data service tier is a service to manager data of system. The functions includes: data accessing, data organization, data security and server-object management Data tier Data tier is used for manage and maintain the spatial data \(DEM, DOM, etc.\ and attribute data by using large database, and data access component access the distributed data resource through ArcSDE and ODBC  Figure.3 System architecture B  Data transferring technology As the Figure.3 illustrated, the former three tiers belong to server side and browser tier belong to client side. Through the Internet, client-side and server-side are connected mainly by Hypertext Markup Language \(HTML\ML and Simple Object Access Protocol \(SOAP\. HTML is the predominant markup language for the creation of web pages. It provides a means to describe the structure of text-based information in a document. SOAP, is a protocol for exchanging XML-based messages over computer networks. It standardizes the way a Web service communicates with a client and allows programs written in different languages and on different platforms to be compatible with each other. SOAP brings together XML and Hypertext Transfer Protocol \(HTTP\ by setting protocols for how Web services and their clients communicate with each other. Within a SOAP framework, a client sends a request in XML over HTTP to the Web service, which, in return, sends a response in XML In the structure, User’s requests are sent to web server from Internet browser program by HTML and SOAP. Then, the application programs of web server are running to deal with the requests and transfer the data requests to data service Accessing data by ODBC or ArcSDE, data service processes the data requests and supports the server application to make a quick response and sent the result back to the server. So that users get the result from browsers after refreshing the page In this way, flood simulation result pictures are transferred by internet easily. Not only flood result pictures, but also all other processed result are able to transfer by this structure IV  S YSTEM DEMONSTRATE  A  Experiment data Experiment data contain: DEM data, region: QiShi segment of Foshan levee; resolution: 2m, cover region area: 4 km2 DOM data, region: QiShi segment of Foshan levee resolution: 1m, cover region area: 4 km2. \(As figure.4\.Data supplied by Foshan Urban Geographic Information Center On the experiment region, the red point means accident place   Figure.4 DOM region 
52 
52 


B  Result demonstrate In the webpage of the client side, initialization parameters are custom by users. In the experiment, parameters set like that: flux: 5m3/s, time: 15 min  As the figure.5, it is the result of flood simulation on the experiment data. On the result page, it is only a result photo instead of DEM and DOM data form server, so that it need less transfer quantity than original data V  C ONCLUSION  As the introducing of the paper, the system structure and flood method are fit to DEM data’s application. After the experiment and many times test, it proves performance well. It is efficiency and practical design for flood simulation’s application However, it should be pointed that there are also many other problems exist in the flood simulation system. How to improve the veracity and efficiency and how to dear with 3D operation in the internet are two mainly keystones of future research A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The study is financially supported by National basic research program of China \(No. 2007CB714107 Thanks for data supported by Foshan Urban Geographic Information Center R EFERENCES   1  Dang Anrong, “Study on sharing digital urban planning information based on WebGIS”, Journal Tsinghua University, Beijing. 2006 2  Yang Jianyu, Ming Dongping, Zhang Xiaodong and Huang Haitao. “A WEBGIS based command control system for forest fire figurehting Journal, Department of Information Management, College of Information & Electronic Engineering, China, 2006 3  Xia Zhang, Deren Li, Xinyan Zhu, and Nengcheng Chen, “Systematic plan of building Web Geographic Information System based on ActiveX contro”, Journal, Wuhan university, Wuhan. 2006 4  DING Zhixiong, LI Jiren, LI Lin. “Method for flood submergence analysis based on GIS grid model” Journal. JOURNAL OF HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING, 2006, \(6\-59 5  LIU Ren-yi, LIU Nan. . “A GIS Based Model for Calculating of Flood Area”. Journal. Journal of Geographical Sciences, 2001, 56 \(1\: 1-6   Fig.5 Flood simulation result 
53 
53 


Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 5 Operation Request Gatekeeper wh ich is a crucial element to the successful remote operation of ITER and a basic requirement of the ITER project, under the direct responsibility of CODAC The prototyping task aims to develop clear structured requirements for the gatekeeper including a description of all transactions to be carried out by the gatekeeper and to provide a working model to demonstrate that these requirements are complete and include all required security for remote exploitation D  CODAC Scheduling System prototype The Scheduling System, a subsystem of CODAC, is responsible for preparing, validating, storing and selecting operation schedules. This includes preparation tools for the end users \(physicists\validation functions, queuing database functions to manipulate the queue and functions to submit schedules for execution. The Scheduling System is partly deployed outside Cadarache site at Remote Experiment Sites and partly on site. Further, the Scheduling System defines the data format and set ability exposed to the end users and therefore generates requirements toward other CODAC systems and plant systems. The prototyping task defined in September 2008 aims to analyze and detail the requirements to perform a detailed design and a prototype implementation of the Scheduling System The ITER device will be operated in an automated way though the scheduling system. A pulse schedule consists of schedule segments. Each schedule segment is unbreakable and has associated parameter data \(e.g. set points, algorithm numbers, and waveforms\. A schedule segment may have multiple output branches, to take into account standard error standard abort and user selectable Fig. 7 illustrates the data flow from schedule preparation validation and execution to production, archiving and delivery of data Fig. 7 CODAC schedule system data flow The physicist responsible for preparing the pulse schedule could be located locally at ITER site or remotely. The user selects and links schedule segments from a standard catalogue specifies parameter data and selectable branching The scientific request is translated into an executable format by the Schedule Preparation System and validated by the Schedule Validation System, before being passed through the Access Gateway System, validated again regarding the operation state and stored in the Schedule Storage In operation mode, the operator selects the appropriate schedule from the queue and triggers its execution using the Schedule Queuing System. The Supervisory Control System acts as a single point of contact to CODAC and plant systems which transform the schedule into scientific data marshaled to the scientific archive and back to the physicist using the Data Access System E  CODAC High Performance Networks survey Some functions of CODAC require deterministic, hard realtime communication and synchronization between distributed nodes. These requirements are addressed by the CODAC High Performance Networks: Synchronous Databus Network, Time Communication Network, Event Distribution Network, and Audio/Video Network A task defined in September 2008 aims to investigate potential commercial off-the-shelf technology solutions and to build small prototypes to demonstrate that requirements can be met. The maximum duration of this task is 25 weeks F  EPICS for Tokamak control study The task defined in November 2008 aims to leverage the experience using EPICS for Tokamak control, to capture the lessons learned, to demonstrate the use of EPICS in an existing device and to investigate a case study of integrating a plant system The first part is to study the feasibility analysis of EPICS as a middleware and software framework for Tokamak control system based on a comparison of using EPICS in Tokamaks and particle accelerators The second objective is to analyze the interface between a plant system, such as Coil Power Supply, and CODAC using EPICS as middleware and software framework. We expect preliminary recommendations on how to integrate the plant system with PSH and HPN Finally, the adaptability of EPICS to Tokamak control system will be verified by demonstrating an EPICS-based control system on an operating device especially focusing on faults on plant operation, data exchange and archiving, data retrieval and presentation to operators/scientists This study has come into force in the first quarter of 2009 and shall last no longer than 32 weeks VI  CODAC  P LANS A HEAD  After elaborating on the actions taken by the CODAC team to move from conceptual to engineering design during the last year, it is time to outline plans ahead As discussed previously, the operation of the ITER machine involves more than 160 plant systems I&C which are mostly procured in kind by ITER parties. In order to assist the IO in specifying, reviewing and following up the Plant System I&Cs along the I&C life cycle from design to integration, an engineering support contract will be setup. It includes support for technical specifications preparation, standardization 


Plenary invited paper at 16th NPSS Real Time Conference 2009, 10-15 May 2009, Beijing, China 6 activity, FAT follow-up, ITER site installation and site acceptance tests  follow-up The implementation plan of the integrated hierarchical control of the ITER plant covers the design, implementation installation, integration and commissioning of CODAC Central Interlock System and Central Safety System. It also covers the definition, support, maintenance and enforcement of standards and interfaces to Plant Systems I&C. The current version of CODAC implementation plan is based on the latest official Integrated Project Schedule dated on May 16, 2008 The first major task of CODAC implementation plan concerns CODAC Core Systems which comprise the hardware and software required to interface and test plant systems I&C CODAC Core Systems are required early in the project to support the development of Plant Systems I&C. The strategy is to encourage the use of PSH and Mini-CODAC as early as possible in the development process. A key milestone is January 2012 with the beginning of factory test. CODAC Core Systems shall be released on a regular basis adding and improving functionality, performance, reliability and usability Backward compatibility and inter version operability shall be guaranteed as part of obsolescence management The second main activity of CODAC implementation plan addresses the network infrastructure which comprises site cabling, hutches, switches and other equipments in CODAC hutch cubicles. The network infrastructure is also fundamental to start receiving plant systems on-site such as cooling water and heat rejection systems which start commissioning in Nov 2013. High Performance Network R&D contracts shall be completed by the second half of 2009 and the design of all networks shall commence CODAC Servers task of the implementation plan comprises the definition and procurement of all computers installed in the computer and control rooms in the control building. To support plant system commissioning commencing November 2013, a subset of the servers must be installed and connected to the network infrastructure. Due to the short lifetime of mainstream servers and the long development and installation time it is foreseen to upgrade most servers before the completion of the construction phase CODAC Application Systems task comprises all software running on the central servers and on the control stations. This includes monitoring, supervising and scheduling functionalities, plant simulators, data acquisition and archiving, cross plant system automation, plasma control system, pulse execution system as well as all tools for configuration, diagnostics and maintenance. Naturally CODAC Application Systems are developed later than the CODAC Core Systems. The strategy is to launch some R&D tasks in critical areas early and develop the production systems later taking advantage of these R&D tasks as well as the development of CODAC Core Systems VII  C ONCLUSION  A major achievement of CODAC current actions is the release of the Plant Control Design Handbook V4 which defines standards, specifications and interfaces applicable to all plant systems I&C. This definition of standards, later to be supported, maintained and enforced, is essential in order to integrate, maintain and contai n cost of the ITER control system. The PCDH is a living document and will be released at regular intervals throughout the construction of ITER. It will also integrate in the proposed catalogues the results of the prototyping and survey activities leading to technology decisions CODAC implementation plan integrates necessary steps to be able to start factory test and the commissioning of the first plant systems. The focus is on the Core Systems to support plant system I&C development, the network design and the basic CODAC servers and applications infrastructure for November 2013 A CKNOWLEDGMENT  IO CODAC team thanks the CODAC Project Management Working Group: Jonathan Farthing \(European Union\, Jiarong Luo \(China\ad Dayrambhai Pujara \(India\nori Kawano \(Japan\, Jhang Hogun \(Korea\, Igor Semenov \(Russia Federation\ and Daniel Ciarlette \(USA IO CODAC team also thanks Jonathan Lister as the originator of the CODAC Conceptual Design R EFERENCES  1  J.B. Lister, J.W. Farthing, M. Greenwald and I. Yonekawa \223Status of the ITER CODAC conceptual Design\224, ICALEPCS, Knoxville, Tennessee USA, October, 2007 2  J.B. Lister, J.W. Farthing, M. Greenwald and I. Yonekawa, \223The ITER CODAC Conceptual Design\224, Fusion Engineering and Design 82 \(2007 1167-1173 3  ITER CODAC Team, \223Plant Control Design Handbook\224 ITER_D_27LH2V v4.0TBD 


of the user and allowing the user to pull services that match As an example consider a parent who needs to find information on their children s school vacation days. This user belongs to a very broad group of citizens with the context dimension.  If we can detect that the user is a parent of children at a specific school then the service need is specific and can be implemented as a specific request belonging to a general category of school-related or even educationrelated services provided by the services dimension.  In addition, the location facet lends itself to hierarchy very well; the need focuses on a certain school, which may be a subset of a school district or located in a certain part of a city. \(We leave the discussion of how this detection of user context is done to future work  Citizen-specific CitiScape  Next we show how a CitiScape architecture accomplishes this by integrating both retrieval and filtering con prov ide th e u s er w i t h  customized e-landscape.  The details are accomplished by the organized portal dimensions, taxonomies, and faceted nodes that are connected dynamically to provide the user with a custom CitiScape as follows To dynamically populate a CitiScape, we use the ideas of faceted classification h eth er a  departmental service belongs to a particular CitiScape is determined by faceted classification.  CitiScapes and Services are both organized based on a collection of categories, called facets.  Each of which has a group of associated default values that describe the information A CitiScape has default facet values.  However, if more specific role and event facet values are known they are used to customize queries that pull to populate more specific services, time, location and value/cost information into the Getting health care  CitiScape.  The long-term characteristics of a user \(e.g lives in a certain neighborhood, is a frequent user of the website, is a parent/senior citizen/college student has certain interests or works in a certain profession can also be combined with their short-term information need to provide a rich user experience. Additional facets may also apply to populate the CitiScapes such as accessibility alternatives Thus, through our notion of CitiScapes, we support the interaction of the user with the system and help the system in making intelligent choices with regard to the services that it needs to push to the user based on how they enter the system, their behavior within the system, system metrics, and other metrics that will be used to define facet values.   This conceptual model helps the government bundle services together to be pr ovided to citizens in the appropriate order and relevance, thereby enhancing the user experience  User experience with Dynamic CitiScapes  The effective organization of services or information items is crucial for the government in order to provide citizens with the enhanced user experience and remain competitive itself.  However the organization of these items is as challenging as much as it is crucial.  This is because each of these items can be of interest fully or partially to more than one user group while a single user group may be interested in a varied collection of items As shown in Table 1, various user groups such as citizens, visitors, families, seniors, safety and health workers would like to interact with the City to access the items of interest to them.  This would be a subset of all the information items and services that the Government has to offer.  The use of the facets as cues for user interest is illustrated next Services such as finding a hospital, doctor, or insurance will probably be most helpful to the user if they take into account the user s location Most of the services and information in the health example are applicable to citizens in general, although finding a Table 1: Sample items pertaining to health-related CitiScapes. - denotes the default value for the facet CitiScape Item Role facet Event facet Time facet Location facet Paying for Healthcare Citizens Finding Healthcare   Find Flu Shots Citizens Finding Healthcare   Make Appointment at Clinic Citizens Finding Healthcare   Find Doctor Citizens Finding Healthcare urgent proximity to user Insurance Search Citizens Finding Healthcare  proximity to user Find Hospital Citizens, Visitors Finding Healthcare urgent proximity to user Nutrition/Diet Info Citizens, health care providers Staying Healthy Exercise Tips Citizens/Seniors/Families Staying Healthy   Staying Healthy in Winter Citizens Staying Healthy winter  Family Health Tips Families Staying Healthy   Evacuation Citizens, safety providers Health Urgent  Sign up for Email Update Citizens Health   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


hospital is an example of a service that might be of interest to visitors as well Exercise tips is an example of a dynamic information object that can take parameters from a CitiScape and return specific information depending on the context of the CitiScape.  Here, different exercise information will be presented, depending on the role of the CitiScape, which in turn depends on the role of the user.  The time facet may be used to determine in which situations or times information is available; for instance, in case of a health emergency, users visiting any of the health CitiScapes may be redirected to a CitiScape dealing specifically with emergency services and information.  Thus, for example, the items from the table above could be dynamically assembled into the identified CitiScapes in Figure 4.  These CitiScapes cater to the interests of different users based on their context of interaction    Figure 4: Example CitiScapes associated with Health  4. Application Benefits of CitiScapes Architecture  In this section we explore the more strategic benefits of the CitiScape architecture further  Business Intelligence Mining  CitiScape architecture realizes that the knowledge of the services that the user needs is available only partially with the user while the Government itself holds a lot of that knowledge.   Hence, a symbiotic interaction is facilitated by CitiScapes between the user and the Government.  With every step in the interaction, the user reveals more of his interest and context of interaction and the system narrows these services and pushes them to the user.  The interaction sequence could be also monitored as follows 1  A user enters the system through a general CitiScape providing value for location and time  2  When a user is identified as a citizen, the system knows that the user could be interested in spaces like Citizen Finding Healthcare, Citizen Emergency, Citizen Staying Healthy, but they could also be interested in other spaces like job opportunities, community events, filing taxes etc They could even be interested in more specific spaces like Senior Health or Family Health.  This provides intelligence on populations and in certain areas  3  If the user indicates interest in finding healthcare the system narrows down the services that it will push to the user. So, the focus now will be on spaces related to healthcare as opposed to spaces related to employment or taxes, for example.  The user may then access an item like general exercise tips or finding a doctor.  Thus, the spaces of Citizen, Staying Healthy, Citizen Finding Healthcare and Citizen Emergency will be relevant for this level of interaction.  Now we have a significant understanding of the users interests The user may choose to stop at this level if their need has been met, or he may continue interacting with the system to get more services.  This type of telescoping can provide significant understanding of trends within populations as well 4  Next if this user is a senior citizen, they could enter the CitiScape for senior citizens and now access additional items or even view the same items from the perspective of a senior citizen.  So if they want to look at exercise tips, they could find those specific to senior citizens in this CitiScape.  They would also be able to find other information such as nutrition, common ailments and access services such as participation in community events for senior citizens.  They could access a general service like finding the nearest doctor or hospital but could also access a specific service such as finding a doctor specializing arthritis, since they are now a part of the Senior Health CitiScape.  Thus, they are now looking at not only those services that they initially thought they wanted, but also related services in which they would now be interested, even if they weren t aware of them initially.  Again, this provides insights into new needs   In summary, this sequence illustrates several aspects 1\he user has an intuitive and progressive interaction with the system that provides needed services, 2\e sharing and reuse of items like exercise tips across spaces and in contexts that are both general \(as in the Citizen Staying Healthy CitiScape\r more specific \(as in the Senior or Family Health CitiScapes\d finally, 3\ the dynamic population of the spaces based on citizen interaction to provides significant intelligence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Dynamically enhanced navigation and user experience In a traditionally organized website, the citizen might begin at the city homepage, and traverse links through a structure that is often organized by department.  We can think of the CitiScape architecture and navigation path as a continual narrowing down of the user s intent until the user arrives at a place where they can complete their intended interaction.  However, even this generalization is optimistic for many government web presences which have become cluttered and disorganized due to the rapid increase in demand for online services and the lack of time and/or experience necessary to keep all of the information contained in a web presence accurate, timely and organized.  In addition, the internal organization structure \(e.g departments\ is not an appropriate structure for navigability.   For instance, given a certain service need, how would a citizen know whether his or her request should go to the Public Service or the Public Safety department?  As shown in the previous section CitiScapes addresses these issues by providing views of services relevant to users, their roles and interests and the additional facets that account for their individual context for using the system  Improved reuse and searchability  The overall approach used at all levels is to dynamically populate the CitiScapes and the items within them with content.  The content objects themselves are all maintained in a self-contained and local fashion and used whenever and wherever they meet the criteria.  This occurs not only when populating the CitiScapes but also when developing content.  To illustrate the point, suppose a content provider role needed to add a new news story to Getting Health Care In the proposed layered CitiScapes architecture, the news story would be a specific independently maintained object with a collection of attributes, such as Title, Author, Date Created, Date of Expiration, Summary, Body, and Subject, along with additional attributes to define its position in an underlying taxonomy and its applicability to various CitiScapes.   Instead of creating all of the attributes values uniquely, the content role will have the opportunity to select from existing objects as values for attributes of the news story object Selecting an object and content that most likely already exists in the system enforces reuse of the existing information, avoids duplication, and specifies a dynamic relationship between the two objects Getting health care and news story.  Next a query can be easily constructed to find any news story releases related to a given subject Moving to such a dynamic approach also allows us to take advantage of semantic querying.  For example logic and ontology languages such as RDF and OWL can be used to express relationships between objects and facilitate flexible queries and searches, as well as inference  Improved services The role facet allows great flexibility of user access to objects in a CitiScape-based system.  It supports the integration of various services using data from the enterprise directory and CMS-based user registration as well as profiles gathered from user behavior and online transaction activity As the users in different roles narrow their intent by navigating and providing values for the different facets that the CitiScapes are built on; the system pulls appropriate service items based on accumulated knowledge about the particular user.  For instance, if there exists some profile or cookie information indicating that the given user has used the website many times to find information on public parks, the system might direct them to a CitiScape having a focus on parks or outdoor activities.  If we know that the user is a citizen of the city, the system will direct them to a citizen-centered CitiScape, as opposed to directing a visitor to a visitor-centered CitiScape. This two-way interaction will help us identify those services that are used often and in what context, those that are not used and even what CitiScapes are effective.  Thus the information can help the government strategically to develop services that are more specific to the citizens  Service Use and IT Traceability A CitiScapes implementation improves the ability to collect and mine relevant information about how when, and where services and information are used For example, we can now track for each object which CitiScapes are being used to access it, and thereby know which user groups and roles are associated with its use.  Combining this information with traditional web presence metrics such as length of time spent viewing information or completing a service navigation patterns, and frequency of access will allow more user-centric performance data to be gathered Deriving patterns from these observations will allow the government organization to truly understand the needs and habits of the citizenry, and incrementally improve the services and information it provides Additionally, we will be able to provide business-IT traceability, because we also know which back-end system each object is residing in, and therefore track the usage of these systems in order to provide better analysis of technology use  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


5  Conclusions  Structuring an eGovernment system around the concept of CitiScapes will provide significant benefits to users of the system as well as administrators and stakeholders.  The dynamic population of CitiScapes presents users with services chosen to match their roles and needs, thereby affording the opportunity to push  highly relevant services to a user in addition to retrieving information to satisfy a given need, while ensuring trustworthiness and security by only providing services that the user can access based on their role.  The organization of services by relevant facets gives users easy access to needed services without having to understand how the government organization is structured.  The support for underlying information objects and relationships provided by the CMS allows the connection to be made between the different dimensions of the portal environment; it is now possible to keep track of when, where, how and by whom services are being used, and gather this information to provide performance feedback to the system for future improvement. In addition, the reusability of information and service objects across multiple CitiScapes increases maintainability of the web presence by centralizing the change process away from pages toward services.  Finally, we envision that eventually the support for CitiScape-type features will be incorporated into CMS systems to enable better socio-technical interactions   6.   References  1 H M G o v e r n m e nt. T r a n sf or m a tiona l G o v e r n m e n t Ena b le d  by Technology. TSO, Norwich, UK, 2005  2 Hille r, Ja nine S., Be la ng e r F. P r iv a c y Stra te g i e s  f o r  Electronic Government. The PricewaterhouseCoopers Endowment for the Business of Government Report, January 2001  3 Mc C l ure  D  G o v e rn m e nt T r a n sf or m a tion: G e tting Joined-Up Governance Right. Gartner, Inc., September 2007  4 D i Ma io, A  G ove rnm e nt a nd W e b 2.0: T h e Em e r g i ng Midoffice. Gartner, Inc., September 2007   DiM a io  A  W h at Do es W e b 2  0  M ean to G o vern men t Gartner, Inc., March 2007  6 D a w e s  S., Eg le ne O  N e w  m ode ls of c o lla bora tion f o r  delivering government services: A dynamic model drawn from multi-national research Proceedings of the 2004 Annual National Conference on Digital Government Research, 2004   I P S V Bo ard Int egrat e d P u b l i c S e ct o r  Vo cab u l ary   Version 2.00. Porism Limited, SW9 8BJ, 2006  8 L a m b e  P  O r g a nis i ng K now le dg e  Ta x onom ie s   Knowledge and Organisational Effectiveness. Chandos Publishing Ltd, Oxford, 2007  9 T o lone W A hn, G P a i, T  H ong S. A c c e s s C ontr o l i n  Collaborative Systems. ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 37 No. 1, March 2005, pp. 29 41  10 Ni ta-Ro taru  C L i N. A Frame w o rk f o r Ro le-Based  Access Control in Group Communication Systems. ISCA 17th International Conference "Parallel and Distributed Computing Systems". San Francisco, CA, USA. 15-17 Sept 2004  11 But l e r T Cole m a n, D  Mode ls of Colla bo ra tio n  Collaborative Strategies, September 2003 http://www.collaborate.com/publication/newsletter/publicatio ns_newsletter_september03.html   12 Ce nte r f o r D i g ita l G o v e rnm e nt. Eng a g e Cre a ting e Government that supports Commerce, Collaboration Community and Commonwealth. e.Republic Inc., 2007  13 Ci ty of  T a m p a  Ta m p a G ov  http www ta m pa g o v ne t  14 Ci ty of  A u rora CO. htt p w ww a urora g o v org   15 Be lk in N. J   Cr of t, B 199 2 Inf orm a tion f ilte ring  and information retrieval Communications of the ACM  35 12\, 29-38  16 Ce nte r f o r D i g ita l G ove rnm e nt http://www.centerdigitalgov.com/index.php   17  Sing a pore I n f o m a p. http w w w sg    18 Ma c M a n us R i c h a r d. EG o v e r n m e nt Me e t s W e b 2.0  ReadWriteWeb, November 5, 2007  19 L i bra r y of Cong re s s  Sum m it on Se ria l s in t h e D i g ita l Environment Glossary http://www.loc.gov/acq/conser/glossary.html   20 USA g ov ht tp www usa gov   21 Dire c t G o v  htt p w ww dire c t g ov uk    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 to request, review, and propose changes to the current state of the science plan Distributed Operations 227 Cassini distributed all aspects of the instrument operations to the science teams. Science Teams were required to develop the spacecraft commanding for pointing the spacecraft. Th is significantly complicated the interfaces and coordination required by the JPL science and sequencing teams. The distribution of internal instrument commanding and monitoring instrument health and safety worked well. Dedicated full-time operations personnel were required at all instrument sites. The liaison between the distributed sites and JPL required definition of a strong JPL Investigation Scientist \(i.e., Experiment Representative\le Distributed operations is a two-edged sword. Scientists personally worked operations and were better able to optimize for their science objectives. Their insight provided the feedback necessary to quickly respond to science discoveries in the science selection and uplink processes This allowed the operations team to capitalize on truly extraordinary opportunities to a degree not thought possible However, this was at the cost of doing science analysis and publishing science results Software Development 227 The Cassini mission deferred most of its ground software development until post launch. In fact, considerable effort was spent accelerating the development of the tools required to plan the Jupiter flyby observations in 2001. For the start of the science integration for Cassini\222s prime mission, many of the ground software planning tools were immature or unavailable. To compensate, homegrown tool development occurred at the instrument sites and within science planning. System engineering of these types of ground software tools was lacking. A better paradigm would have been to develop the operations and ground system\222s architecture, requirements models, and software to a level sufficient to support operations pre-launch. Sufficient project resources needed to be applied to Phase B/C/D development. The science planning tools should be developed to a sufficient level during these phases such that th ey can be used as part of evaluating the ground and flight system requirements and capabilities. Based on this evaluation, refinements could be made during cruise and throughout the mission to the unified ground and flight system architecture and software requirements Programmatic  Project Science 227The orbiter consists of 8 Principal Investigator \(PI\struments and 4 Facility Instrument with corresponding Team Leads. In a ddition, there are 5 different science discipline teams: Rings, Saturn, Titan, Icy Satellites and Magnetosphere. The Project Science leader ship needed to be highly involved in the tactical and strategic science planning activities. The consensus building culture used on Cassini was time consuming. The Project Science support staff should be funded adequately to allow the Project Scientist to participate in the integration process. Clear Project Science guidelines are very helpful Instruments 227 Instrument Flight Rule development must be mature pre-launch. Instruments should be designed to minimize impacts on the operations of the other instruments, e.g., radiator placement. Data compression internal to instruments is vital. For Cassini, the science instruments had internal sequencing memory for storing instrument commanding for upcoming sequence. This allowed the science teams th e ability to send real-time noninteractive instrument commands that bypass the sequencing process by using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP  In-flight Testing 227 The targeted gravity assist flybys provided a unique opportunity to exercise the ground system on realistic science data acquisition scenarios that simulates the operational environment during the Tour phase of the prime mission. This also had the advantage of providing the science instrument teams an opportunity to acquire useful science data for the purposes of instrument checkout and science data analysis. The in-flight exercises should use the processes, procedures, software, and ground system capabilities in the same manner, to the extent possible, as will be used during Tour and Orbital operations The entire flight team \(mission planning, science planning sequencing, spacecraft, naviga tion, and science teams should be fully engaged to provide the maximum benefit to the Project 7  C ONCLUSION  Even though Cassini was a NASA flagship mission maximizing the science return was a challenge to science planning operations. Decisions aimed at saving both prelaunch and operations costs added considerable complexity to both the spacecraft and the ground system. Among the key ones were removing the scan platform, opting for distributed operations rather than co-location, and delaying development of some flight software and most of the ground system until after launch Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed to overcome those challenges as presented in this paper should be of value to other deep space science missions.  Future missions should carefully consider the following advice 200  Pay careful attention to operational scenarios in development cost saving decisions, both spacecraft and ground. Additional, more sophisticated commanding constructs may be required in operations to compensate for lack of spacecraft capabilities. Ground management of stressed or 


  12 degraded spacecraft components will be labor intensive   R EFERENCES    N. Vanderm ey and B G. Paczkowski 223The C a ssi ni Huygens Mission Overview,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Andrew M i shki n and B a rbara Larsen 223Im p l e m e nt i ng Distributed Operations: A Comparison of Two Deep Space Missions,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006 3 Barb ara Larsen 223Bu ilt Bu t No t Used Need ed  Bu t No t Built: Ground System Guidance Based On CassiniHuygens Experience,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Spi l k er, Li nda J \(edi t o r o  a R i nged Wold\224,NASA SP-533, 1997  Jennifer Long Maxwell, W illiam M Heventhal, III, and Shahram Javidnia, \223The Cassini-Huygens Sequence Development Process\224, 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Paczkowski  B G, \223C assi ni Sci e nce Pl anni ng Process\224 2004 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, May 17 21, 2004 200  Recognize that lack of margin in any resource required for science return will require compensatory staffing. Pr edefined, prevalidated options for resource management such a power modes can compensate. Tools that validate resource allocation are essential 200  Anticipate alternative costs for failing to meet MOS development schedules. The ground system needs to have reached sufficient maturity to support key operations tasks before those tasks commence 200  Distributed science operations introduces delays and complications to sequence development, which must be managed in science planning. System engineering will need to deal with overlap in and conflict between ground systems 200  Acknowledge that complexity in any form\227 spacecraft design, science objectives, MOS architecture\227may be managed to enhance science return but the science planning operations must be funded and structured to manage that complexity The processes to develop science commanding will be lengthy and highly iterative In the end, with an appropriate funding profile, adequate and timely staffing, and effective processes and tools all the facets of mission complexity can be managed to extract amazing science return 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work done by the Cassini-Huygens Flight and Science Teams. Without their efforts the unrivaled science collected by the Cassini mission would not have been achieved This work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technol ogy, under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  251 2008 California Institute of Technology. Government sponsorship acknowledged 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


