Service-Quality Criteria of Web Recruiters: A Content Analysis   Elfi Ettinger University of Twente e.ettinger@utwente.nl  Celeste Wilderom University of Twente c.p.m.wilderom@utwente.nl  Huub Ruel University of Twente h.j.m.ruel@utwente.nl    Abstract  Despite the widespread use of ICT systems in erecruiting services, there is little research on how recruiters judge the quality of different e-recruiting 
services. We explore, from the recruiters perspective staffing quality improvements and limitations since beginning to use e-recruiting services, the most frequent requests emailed by recruiters to an external e-recruiting service, and the criteria recruiters associate with high e-service quality and how e-service quality can be enhanced We interviewed 73 recruiters and content-analyzed a large data set of e-mail communications between recruiters and service personnel of an e-recruiting portal for university graduates. Surprisingly recruiters judge the quality of e-recruiting services primarily by the quantity and not necessarily on the quality of applications, high number of visits to the website, clicks on published job ads, page 
impressions, successful placements, the size of the applicant pool, and the quality of cooperation with other media channels so as to reach more applicants  1. Introduction  Traditionally, most service encounters involve one customer and one customer-service employee at one point in time. In recent years, advances in technology have enabled a rapidly growing number of customers to access services through digital communications such as email and using the company s website. As online business transactions 
are increasing, so are the expectations of customers using online channels [16, 17 T h is is e s peciall y  salient in the domain of personnel services such as erecruiting services where a vast number of different providers emerge. Job applicants  as well as professional recruiters and organizations in need of personnel, are increasingly using the intern Service quality has been identified as one of the key factors in determining the success or failure of electronic comme Further, Tong et al 3  note that because employers usually need to pay for 
the services of recruitment websites, their perceptions of website service quality are seen as more important than job seekers views Despite this trend, academic literature on the service quality of different e-recruiting portals is sparse Sev e ral res e arch ers 7, 18 3 3 h a v e  noted the need to gain better understanding of payers  evaluations of e-service quality, not only in a general sense, but to identify determinants of the specific eservice environment. Although it seems obvious that service quality criteria are not exactly the same across 
different internet services \(e.g., compare service quality criteria of an online bookshop with that of internet banking and an e-recruiting site\n service criteria are likely to be the same across different internet services, such as fulfillment and reliability of order and billing, easy navigation on the website, responsiveness and system availability, etc Knowledge of which factors recruiters associate with high quality e-recruiting services may enable erecruiting providers to better serve their customers and help them to differentiate themselves from other 
providers. Hence, in this study we explore the factors that e-recruiters see as important for high quality service in e-recruiting environments. Given the exploratory nature of this study, we elicited the criteria by interviewing full-time recruiters. To interpret the criteria in the context of e-recruiters  daily work, we analyzed the content of all emails directed from recruiters to an e-recruiting portal over the period of one year. This was done to get a further sense of recruiters needs through analysis of the typical and most frequent requests posed by recruiters 
and their personnel. This provided another way of finding out what is important to corporate recruiters when they outsource recruitment The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: we first provide a theoretical background then, we outline our methodology; and finally, we present our results and concluding insights  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 2. Theoretical Background  2.1 Research on e-Recruitment A general market trend is that company recruiters are increasingly using the internet to advertise job postings and search applicant pools, so as to attract a wider set of prospective candidates than traditional recruiting processes allow [15 A l read y i n  2001, Ca rep o rted th at 90 percen t of larg e US  companies were recruiting via the internet. Moreover  h o w ed t h at v i rt u a ll y a ll F o rtu n e 100 co m p an ie s use some form of e-recruiting methods and that 94 of the Global 500 companies use their own company websites for recruitment. According to Cober et al  50 percen t of n e w  h i res in th e US  w e re f oun d  through online sources. Further, Crispin, and Merler  o u n d th at 20 percen t o f e x tern a l  h i res i n th e U S  were selected via corporate websites and 13 percent via commercial job boards. These numbers are expected to increase further and the trend is expected to spread into many other countries. Parry reported on a survey of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development in which it was found that about two-thirds of UK organizations use some form of online recruitment. He notes that of those organizations that currently uses online recruitment methods, around a third expect to increase their use Even though research on e-recruiting is still sparse e g r o w i n g num ber of recent  academic papers show that there is an increase in the attention \(e.g. [1, 2, 24, 36  Until about five years ago, most studies focused on applicant reactions [12 13, 42  Research in this area has been carried out also to find out why companies and recruiters decide to use e-recruiting icall y  W o lters  review of the literature noted the following reasons low costs; recruitment time reduction; larger pool of possible candidates; more information; anonymity higher quality of responses; easy automatic screening and filtering of applications; and the availability of smart agents \(search tools using a number of selection criteria\A 2006 survey conducted by the CIPD reveals that the most important reasons to use e-recruitment are cost reduction \(71 percent broadening of selection pool \(60 percent\d shortening of time required to hire \(47 percent Less research attention has been given to employers or recruiters views on the effectiveness of different e-recruiting services. Recent studies led to the following summarized results. First, Wolters  study on job boards found that there is a negative relationship between the amount of information given about the job and the percentage of suitable reactions  o f oun d t h at ere cru i t m en t is n o long er  reserved for higher-educated or IT-personnel only Secondly, Parry t u d ie d th e adoption of erecruitment methods. He found that employers base their decisions on whether or not to use their corporate website for recruiting purposes on whether companies competitors and target job seekers have adopted this method. The use of commercial job boards is based on both external and internal compatibility, that is the fit with existing organizational systems and culture  2.2 E-Recruiting and its Challenges Seen from the organization s perspective, the primary goal of the recruiting process is to find the best and most suitable candidate for an open position as quickly as possible th i s proces s   m o re a n d  more employers find e-recruiting services indispensable for meeting their staffing needs However, e-recruiting itself is not a fixed  service. It includes several different tools and applications that bring different services and accompanying challenges with them. Major services include general job boards e.g www.monster.com  www.hotjobs.com  specialized niche job sites \(e.g www.dice.com  www.beyond.com sing resume databases or applicant pools www.absolventa.de at rooms newsgroups or networks  e.g www.hrnet.org sing personnel placement services and company websites Similarly, Wolters e d on 14, 24, 2 6   identified the following approaches to internet-based recruiting: using company websites, job boards, erecruiting, media websites \(electronic versions of newspapers and magazines\ship recruiting social networking\nd discussion boards and forums. Also, many professional organizations offer niche job boards, for instance, the Academy of Management \(AoM\for university jobs in management and related business fields. Another example is the Society for Human Resource Management \(SHRM\for HR positions. In order to best meet their staffing needs, much of a recruiting budget is typically spent on internet platforms. Every year, most recruiters face decisions on which erecruiting service and partners to invest in. Already at the beginning of the e-recruiting hype, Cullen noted At one level the success of e-recruiting shows that the application of technology can create huge efficiencies and financial savings in HR. At a higher level, e-recruiting demonstrates the critical need for the redesign and integration of most HR systems and practices  E-recruiting service organizations also face many challenges, such as keeping the applicants profiles up-to-date. Another struggle still tends to be the challenge of delivering semantically accurate search results when offering applicant-pool search functions Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


 Besides this, posting resumes on job boards also calls for consideration of privacy and security issues Often, both an applicant s and recruiter s name address and phone number are displayed for anyone to see. Regarding automated skill tests and using computers to determine whether an applicant should be interviewed, critics argue that such processes seem to not support what HR is actually about peopleorientation pplican t s  m a y als o be m o re li k e l y  to falsify their profile data in online applications than in traditional face-to-face interviews. As a result rather than selecting most qualified applicants resume scanning systems may select applicants who are most capable of intuiting and using the right words in applications oth e r dra w b ack of erecruitment is the danger of being flooded with resumes \(or more in general, the unpredictability of the number of responses\acking difficulties, and the non-availability of the internet to certain segments of the labor ma l t h oug h  h i gh quality e-recruiting services require effective systems as a quasi hygiene factor the true motivator for recruiters when deciding to cooperate with a specific service provider on an ongoing basis may be rather the service offered by the people behind the technology Thus, there is enough  justification for exploring the factors that recruiters associate with high quality e-recruiting service. Given the paucity of academic research on these issues, we will first present the relevant literature  2.3 E-Service Quality Increasingly, rather than face-to-face, customers are interacting with organizations via ICT-mediated channels. Hence, we need to better understand how these developments can best be complemented by the delivery of high quality e-serv h s e r v ice  quality has been found to enhance customer satisfaction, customer retention, and consequently organizational performance e.g 3, 17  n d already high e-service quality has been found to enhance a webpage s attractiveness, hit rates and recommendations T h e cu rren t l iteratu re u s e s  such terms as e-service quality, online service quality, and web service quality to denote services provided on the Internet. A variety of conceptualizations on e-service quality have already been proposed. For instance, e-service quality has been defined as the extent to which a website facilitates efficient and effective shopping purchasing, and delivery of products and services [6 24, 35 in all y 11 di m e ns i o n s of e-s e rv ice q u alit y e-SQ\were proposed: \(1\reliability; \(2 4\lexibility, \(5\ of navigation, \(6\ficiency, \(7\surance/trust, \(8 security/privacy, \(9\ knowledge, \(10\ite aesthetics, and \(11\ customization/personalization More recently, Zeithaml, Parasuraman and Malhotra  redu ced t h os e 11 di m e n s i o n s t o 4 di m e n s i o n s o f  e-service quality and 3 dimensions of e-recovery service quality see Table 1\The e-recovery dimensions were proposed for non-routine encounters and only play a role when facing service failure While some of these e-service quality and e-recovery service criteria are the same in traditional service quality dimensions \(e.g., fulfillment, reliability of the service received\ers are unique or more typical of e-service contexts \(e.g., privacy issues in e-recruiting portals Table 1. E-Service Quality Parasuraman et al., 2005  E-Service Quality 1. Efficiency Ease and speed of accessing and using services 2. Fulfillment Extent to which promises about order delivery and item availability are fulfilled 3. Privacy Degree to which the service is safe and protects customer information 4. System Availability Correct technical functioning of the service E-Recovery Service Quality  1. Compensation Degree to which customers are compensated for problems 2. Contact Availability of assistance though telephone or on-line representatives 3. Responsiveness Effective handling of problems  As e-service quality is a multidimensional and context-dependent concept, online service providers must take care to understand what specific needs their customer segments have ile s o m e  online services complement traditional face-to-face service with e-service, \(much of the banking industry,\hers focus exclusively on e-service \(e.g amazon.com\n order to satisfy an organization s recruiters needs and consequently establish high customer value, providers of e-recruiting services need to understand their users and offer the things that are most desired. This paper s goal is to enhance this understanding. Specifically, we aimed to explore four main research questions 1\hat improvements and limitations in the quality of the staffing process do corporate recruiters experience since using external e-recruiting services 2\hat are the most frequent kinds of email requests that recruiters approach an external erecruiting service for Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 3\hat are the characteristics of high service quality in e-recruiting services 4\ can the service quality of external erecruiting be enhanced  3. Research Design  This explorative study follows the interpretive approach to qualitative research; we conducted semistructured interviews and analyzed the content of recruiters digital communications for contextual meaning. We followed Klein and Myers s e t of principles for interpretive field studies in conducting IS research. In order to start answering our research questions, we interviewed 73 recruiters, consisting of 46 females and 27 males. Most of these 73 recruiters were employed at larger companies with high demand for university graduates at diverse levels. We also collected and content-analyzed all email communications directed from recruiters to a university recruiting service over the entire year 2007. The digital data was obtained in order to help us answer our second and third research question Research question 1 and 4 were answered by analyzing the interview data. Both methods of data collection were helpful in exploring the meaning of high service quality in e-recruiting services  3.1 Interviews Over a period of two years, two persons conducted 73 open-ended interviews at 12 similar university career fairs in Austria and Germany Ahead of time, we piloted the first version of the interview guide and feedback resulted in revisions to the guide. The interviewers first observed the recruiters at the career fairs and made sure to only approach them when they were standing alone waiting for potential applicants; and appearing to have time. On average, our interviews with recruiters lasted between 10-20 minutes. In most cases, it was not possible to interview the recruiters longer than 20 minutes since applicants came and waited in line to talk with them. However, after the first site visits, the interviewers realized that the best time for the interviews was either early in the morning or around lunchtime. Hence, in several cases, the recruiters could be interviewed more than 20 minutes During all interviews, comprehensive field notes were taken. Researchers such as Van Maan regard field notes as the secret papers of social research which comprise the most important observations. After each individual interview, the interviewers supplemented their notes with everything that they remembered from the conversations. In addition, after each career fair day the 2 interviewees met, compared their field notes and discussed their impressions h e in ter v ie ws were analyzed right after finalizing all interviews when interviewers still remembered much of the data that were orally conveyed to them by the interviewees. We analyzed common themes related to our research questions. These categories were then broken into sub-categories, based on the responses of the recru In lin e w i t h t h e cons tant  comparison method of data analysis, we continually modified the preliminary categories, eliminating old ones and adding new ones to account for newly acquired eviden   3.2 Digital Communications Another comparative data set was derived from digital communications, namely, e-mail exchange between recruiters and service personnel of an Austrian e-recruiting portal for university graduates All incoming emails directed from recruiters to the university e-recruiting service \(from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007\ere collected. We made every effort in deleting disqualified emails, e.g spamming messages, advertising, duplications messages with empty text body, and any messages sent from other individuals or organizations that were not recruiters or marketing personnel \(e.g., emails from students or graduates directed to the university portal\rally, we excluded all automated response mails such as registration confirmations undelivered messages, out of office replies subscribed newsletters or new password requests. In order to get a sense of the kind of requests recruiters make when approaching an e-recruiting portal, we analyzed all proper emails: in total n=1638 Content-analyzing this digital communication is likely to enhance our understanding of the day-to-day work of recruiters, their expectations, complaints, and feedback on their services usage. Together, it will show how recruiters evaluate e-service quality In developing the initial text-analysis categories two researchers collaborated in reading the first 200 incoming messages from recruiters. Discussion between the coders was necessary to resolve different understandings and disagreement o r in s t a n ce  we coded all emails that dealt with recruiters emarketing-related orders with e-marketing order  instead of using separate labels for ordering online company presentations, e-newsletter, event invitations, company image banner, candidate relationship management etc. After we had agreed on the coding scheme, we independently coded another set of 100 incoming emails from recruiters Intercoder reliability between the 2 coders was Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 calculated using the percentage agreement statistic 11  A satisfying level of 0.92 was achieved, so we decided that one coder would code the remaining emails.  Next, one of us calculated the frequencies of the different kinds of email communications  The so-derived data presents the categorized reallife context of recruiters digital communications directed at a university e-recruiting service. We grouped emerging service criteria into relevant factors, most of which were defined by the reviewed previous studies. Since some of the identified service quality criteria could not be assigned to the criteria discovered in previous studies, we added a few new categories. We thought through existing theory of eservice quality d i n f o rm at i on sy s t e m s su ccess  an d h o w un iqu e s e r v i ce criteria or pattern s  thereof may apply to the specific context of erecruiting services. We presumed that researchers must also intrude into the recruiters` world to more comprehensively understand recruiters email communications. Pure content analysis of the recruiters emails would not have this explorative effect that we achieved by analyzing explorative interview results in addition to the email communications. Similarly, Ngwengama and Lee s  t u d y of inf o r m a tion rich n e s s in e-m a i l  communication also used interpretive methods to enhance the findings. Hence, both methods contributed to gain insights below the surface of recruiters perceptions  4. Results  We present the findings in line with our four key research questions. We illustrate these with quotes from the recruiters to show the richness of our data The first research question concerns improvements and limitations of the staffing quality process due to using e-recruiting services. Importantly, every interviewed recruiter makes active use of \(external\recruiting services. All were able to identify improvements in their staffing process due to this erecruiting \(Table 2\iters frequently note that they receive more applications, reach more applicants, and have better possibilities for emarketing initiatives such as employer branding since their use of e-recruiting services Certainly, the greatest quality enhancement of our staffing process is that we have more possibilities to select the best candidate, since we receive many more applications than via newspaper ads And Since using e-recruiting services, our ads reach a much larger potential audience or It s not only that we get more resumes, we also can market our company to more potential employees  Table 2. Staffing quality improvements since using e-recruiting  Frequency Improvements 66 More incoming applications  53 Wider reach of applicants  42 E-marketing incl. employer branding candidate relationship management, event announcements, newsletter etc 26 Cost savings  19 Longer online availability of job ads 15 Time savings  8 Possibility for more precise job ad descriptions compared to newspapers  Most recruiters were also able to identify limitations in their staffing process since using erecruiting services \(Table 3\ Specifically, they noted that actual behavior, appearance and communication skills of the candidates can t be observed via online recruitment Sure, I need to meet the applicants and get to know them in person, this is essential before making any placement decisions Although saving time has been frequently reported in major studies on e-recruiting e.g is f i ndin g  w a s n o t conf ir m e d  by all of our interviewees; Fifteen recruiters mentioned saving time due to the use of e-recruiting whereas 11 recruiters claimed that saving time was not obvious.  One recruiter claimed You have to bear in mind that the amount of applications from people who are not fitting the job description is higher by using online services. It is easy for applicants to send one email application to everybody. Usually, I sort out those careless applications right away, however it also takes time to sort through your mailbox   Table 3. Staffing quality limitations since using e-recruiting  Frequency Limitations 54 Can t judge actual behavior, appearance of candidate 32 Can t judge communication  skills  such as observed  in assessment centers 27 Incomplete or inappropriate profiles responsiveness and timeliness 18 Less data ownership/flexibility in resume forms by using external agencies compared to own company career sites 11 Time consuming to update databases collect additional data; and control testimonials 7 In-house systems may not easily link to external providers; cost limitation for internal ICT development 6 Difficult to reach certain la bor gr oups Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 Other issues that were both positively and negatively assessed in the context of staffing quality concern the possibility to search in applicant pools and the matching of job to applicant profile Our second research question concerns the most frequent kinds of requests that are asked of an university career service, see Table 4\. In almost a quarter of the emails \(23 %\iters request information or pose questions to the e-recruiting service personnel. Most frequent questions deal with the average amount of webpage visitors per day and month \(or other time frames\ the average amount of visitors clicking on individual job ads, page impressions, the size and growth of the registered applicant pool, and inquiries on possibilities for emarketing to specific user groups \(i.e., employer branding, candidate relationship management, event announcements, newsletter\hen recruiters from larger companies visit the recruiting platform the first time, many try to get free trials to publish one or two job ads. They do this in order to monitor how many applications they receive by using a new e-recruiting service. Such requests for test use are very common among recruiters. Paradoxically, what seems to matter the most to recruiters is the quantity of applications received though using new services. The following examples illustrate those requests   Dear Customer Representative I am interested in publishing job ads on your platform. How large is your database of applicants and how many companies have access to this database? How many of your registered applicants have master degrees? I could not find media data such as total number of visits to your page. Please provide us with this information and make an offer so that we can test the rebound of applicants Best regards, Denise Hall, Human Resources   Dear Mr. Hofbauer I wanted to collect some information about your graduate portal. I am a professional scout and I always search for the best applicants for our customers. In order to evaluate a potential cooperation, I would like to know the average visits on your site per day and per month. I already have visited your price page. In order to make a quick decision, I would appreciate your response soon Kind regards, Petrus Kollabe, Recruiting  Nearly twenty percent of the emails were regular orders \(different job-related services\en recruiters make orders, they either send the job descriptions as attachments in different formats such as doc, pdf, or ppt, or send the job description within email text field. They may also send links to their company site and want that the external recruiting services publishes those ads on its website so as to reach a larger audience. When looking through the orders, it becomes obvious that most recruiters write focused and very short messages, probably to save time. The next two emails illustrate typical orders  Dear ladies and gentlemen Please search for appropriate candidates for us, as described in the attachment. Also, publish this info on your career service. You can get in touch with me if you have any further questions. With best regards Sylvia Kerndl, Staffing Coordinator   Dear Ms. Berger I m ordering the classic package for 1.800,-- as advertised on your website. The takeover of job ads should be done automatically and daily from our company site. If you need any further information you can contact me at any time. Thanks and kind regards Angela Lohneberger, Human Resources   Many recruiters want to combine e-recruiting with emarketing initiatives. In 13 % of the emails, recruiters requested marketing-related services \(e.g advertisements to specified target groups; company banner and logo advertising; e-newsletter announcements of company events on the webpage The following example illustrates this  Dear Ms. Velders I wanted to find out if it is possible to send information to the graduates? If yes, how many lines how often can we advertise and how many graduates from what fields\ will get the newsletter Thanks in advance and best regards Brigitte Pokkl, Human Resources Administration  Further 11 of the emails reflect changes or cancellations of orders, e.g. if a position has already been filled and recruiters wa nt to deactivate the ad Also, sometimes recruiters want to adjust some wording in the description. Another 9% are designated for order confirmations and thank you messages. Also 9% concern technical or service questions \(i.e., errors, login problems, adjustment of job ad indexing, improve publishing picture quality company logo too small etc.\The following email presents such a technical question Dear Mr. Mayer Can you please let me know in what category you published our job ad? I can t find it by searching for technical jobs. It should be assigned to the category Technical Jobs or it should be found by the keywords "Service Technician, Mechatronical Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


 Engineer, Synthetic Technician...." Can you still change this? Regards, Miriam Polter, HR Assistant   Only 4% of the recruiters emails could not be fit into the defined categories \(Table 4\Those emails dealt with, for instance, meeting arrangements or invitations or updates. Finally, 3 % of emails came from public bodies \(like associations, educational institutes, clubs etc.\d private firms \(banks insurances, travel agencies etc.\esting cooperation agreements, and 1% dealt with complaints  Table 4. Email themes in e-recruiting services  Percentage Frequency Themes 23 373 Request information 19 304 Regular \(re\rder \(publish jobs, search and suggest candidates  13 219 E-marketing order 11 184 Change or cancellation of order 9 147 Confirmation of order thank you notes 9 141 Technical or service questions, errors  8 125 Billing contact details, price negotiation, payments 4 72 Other 3 52 Public bodies and private firms requesting cooperation agreements 1 21 Complaints  100 1638   In order to answer our third research question on distinguishing characteristics of high service quality we compared the e-service quality criteria of Parasurama d t hos e of t h e L o n e a n d Mc  Lean m odel w i t h o u r re s u lt s s ee T a ble 5  captured the essence of the scales rather than reporting on every scale item. Comparing the criteria we see they overlap in many cases. Some differentiations emerged: The independent dimension Information Quality by De Lone and Mc Lean is not classified as separate quality criteria in the Parasuraman cale bu t in cl u d ed in dif f e re n t  dimensions such as the Efficiency criteria. The frequently cited Privacy criteria have neither been identified in our interviews, nor in the email communications as important. We can assume that privacy is assumed to be a hygiene factor for recruiters. Also, many recruiters are interested in publicly advertising for their organization; hence they put all their personal contact data out so that applicants can easily contact them.  In these cases privacy concerns seem of minor importance to recruiters. And when asked about the data they want to see in a CV, indeed many recruiters requested that it would be good to get more personalized data from the applicants such as age, gender and telephone number. Surprisingly, the most frequently mentioned distinguishing quality criteria that strongly influence company recruiters decision to cooperate with an external recruiting service had not been identified by the two criteria sets in the literature. This quality criterion is represented by Statistics in Table 5 Recruiters clearly associate service quality with the recruiting services ability to attract many visitors to the website; page impressions; high number of clicks on published job ads and company logos; the number of incoming applications; number of up-to-date profiles; successful placements within a certain time frame; the size and growth rate of the applicant pool if available; and the quality of cooperation with other media channels \(i.e. newspapers\o as to reach many potential applicants. Moreover, the criterion Range of services selection has not been defined by the two scales. This includes if, for example, a recruiting service provides only basic functions such as job publishing or also supplementary services such as search, full placement, e-marketing services such as employer branding, skill tests etc While Parasuraman et plai n t h at t h e e recovery criteria Compensation, Contact and Responsiveness were developed for non-routine encounters and only play a role when the organization is facing service failure, our findings show that these three criterion apply throughout the process of e-recruiting service delivery. In fact, as shown by our content-analyzed results for how to enhance the service quality in e-recruiting, the improvement in responsiveness and reliability scored highest \(mentioned by 52 out of 73 recruiters, see Table 6\ Another quality related point worth mentioning is that most e-recruiting services publish their prices online. The recruiters emails reveal that many of them try to negotiate prices for using job services. Often, they make comparisons with other services explaining benefits they receive when cooperating with other providers, or try to get a cheaper price by communicating that other providers have more visitors, clicks, a larger applicant pool or more flexible service options. By looking at the actual booking behavior of services with and without granting deductions, the negotiation behavior seems more of a common work practice than a factor of importance to use a certain service. Hence, getting a cheap cooperation agreement with e-recruiting services or the price of services seems of lower priority in differentiating service quality Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 Table 5. E-recruiting service quality criteria: Comparison of interview and email data with the literature  Parasuraman et al. \( 2005 De Lone & Mc Lean 2003 Interviews Emails Efficiency Relates to System, Service and Information Quality Automatic and daily job ad updates,  easy navigation, accurate search, fast and easy resumes download, speed Quick registration, easy purchase process, automatic and daily job ad updates, easy navigation Fulfillment Service Quality Order accuracy, billing accuracy up-to-date profiles, customization Order accuracy, billing accuracy up-to-date profiles and ads flexibility to adjust orders various payment options Privacy System Quality No No System Availability System Quality Hygiene factor, presumed that systems work, fast loading page, integration with eHRM systems Technical queries, improve workflow/interfaces, HR-XML Compensation Service Quality Candidate replacement if leaving before 6 months in a job Price reduction if not enough applications received, longer online availability of job ads Contact Service Quality Different contact possibilities, email phone, in person, online request forms Phone frequently preferred for first arrangements Responsiveness Service Quality Not only as e-recovery \(problems\riteria rather general, fast and reliable communications, timeliness Not only as e-recovery \(problems criteria, rather general, fast and reliable communications Included in several of the above criterion Information Quality Up-to-date web site with relevant information, transparent info, find information quickly, FAQs, ratings and reviews from other recruiters who have used the service Transparent info, automatic daily updates of job ads, updates on new registered, suitable candidates profiles that have been already viewed   Range of services selection, only job publishing or full placement, skill tests etc and marketing services such as announcements of company events banners, image buttons etc Range of services selection, emarketing offers, employer branding, e-relationship building with potential candidates, enewsletter etc   Statistics \(# visitors, # page impressions incoming applications, # cooperation with other media channels Statistics \(# visitors, # page impressions, # successful placements, # incoming applications, # applicant pool  In the interviews, recruiters were also asked how the service quality of \(external\recruiting could be enhanced. To this question, we got a wide range of answers \(Table 6\ Foremost significant, and identified by 52 of all 73 recruiters, is to enhance the responsiveness and reliability of the service personnel and the applicants answers to recruiters requests Recruiters complained frequently of time loss due to applicants not answering in time or recruiting agencies needing too much time to suggest suitable candidates. Particularly dissatisfying is the response rate when searching in applicant databases. Some recruiters suggested services that differentiate between actively and passively searching candidates In regard to applicant search functions, 42 recruiters emphasized that the accuracy of matching between applicant profiles and job descriptions needs much improvement. Several recruiters explained that they prefer to get applications directly sent to them instead of searching databases and headhunting candidates who might not be interested in the open job anyway Further, 37 recruiters suggested to extend the spectrum of services. Also frequently mentioned were the following service criteria: keep applicants  profiles up-to-date; don t overload recruiting websites with irrelevant information; improve navigation in order to find things quickly and easily automatic daily updates of job ads on e-recruiting sites when corporate pages are updated; offer different possibilities of how to index job ads; and improve workflow/ integration with external eHRM systems. Besides these rather frequently identified improvements, several recruiters came up with the following service quality ideas: enhance niche recruiting services to target applicant segments more specifically; possibility to co-determine what data is collected; open recruiting platform listing all open jobs and all potential applicants in a specified region improvements in data exchanges such as HR-XML and multilingual job postings Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 Table 6. Enhancing the quality of  e-recruiting  Frequency   52 Enhance responsiveness and reliability to recruiters requests 42 Improve applicant search functions 37 Provide more services 32 Keep applicants profiles up-to-date 26 Don t overload recruiting websites with irrelevant information 21 Improve navigation, make registrations easier and faster 17 Automatic daily updates of job ads on erecruiting sites when corporate pages are updated 13 Offer different possibilities on how to index job ads 9 Improve workflow/ integration with external eHRM systems  5. Conclusions  In this study, we interviewed 73 recruiters and content-analyzed a large data set of e-mail communications between recruiters and service personnel of an e-recruiting portal for university graduates \(throughout 2007\pecifically, we analyzed recruiters perceptions of improvements and limitations in the quality of the staffing process since beginning to use e-recruiting services. We further explored the most frequent requests emailed by recruiters to an external e-recruiting service. Finally we revealed characteristics of high service quality in e-recruiting services and how the service quality can be enhanced Recruiters frequently note that they receive more applications, reach more applicants, and have better possibilities for e-marketing initiatives such as employer branding since beginning to use erecruiting services. However, they found that actual behavior, appearance and communication skills of the candidates cannot be observed via online recruitment Recruiters most frequent kinds of emails include information inquiries about the recruiting portal regular \(re\ such as publishing jobs online or suggesting candidates; e-marketing orders; change cancellation or confirmation mails; technical, servicerelated and billing questions An e-recruiting portals e-service quality has been clearly associated with its ability to attract many visitors to the website; page impressions; high number of clicks on published job ads and company logos; the number of incoming applications; number of up-to-date profiles; successful placements within a certain timeframe; the size and growth rate of the applicant pool, if available; and the quality of cooperation with other media channels so as to reach many potential applicants.  This e-service quality criterion has been labeled statistics Also range of services selection i.e. does the site provide only basic functions such as job publishing or also supplementary services such as search, full placement, employer branding, skill tests\ has been related with high e-service quality. Finally, recruiters suggested ways as to how e-service quality can be enhanced. Of foremost importance is the need to enhance the responsiveness and reliability of the service personnel s and the applicants answers to recruiters requests. Other e-service quality enhancements include: improve applicant search functions; provide more services; keep applicants  profiles up-to-date, don t overload site with irrelevant information, improve website navigation, provide automatic daily updates of job ads, offer different possibilities on how to index jobs and improve workflow/integration with external eHRM systems  6. References  1 A nde rs on, N   Applicant and recruiter reactions to new technology in selection: a critical review and agenda for future research  International Journal of Selection and Assessment Vol. 11, pp. 121-136, 2003 2 Ba ue r, T  N T r ux illo, D.M P a ro nto, M  E., W e e k le y   J.A. and Campion, M.A Applicant reactions to different selection technology: Face-to-face, interactive voice response, and computer-assisted telephone screening interviews  International Journal of Selection and Assessment Vol. 12, pp. 135-148, 2004 3 Berry L  an d  P a rasu ram a n  A  Listening to the Customer The Concept of a Service-Quality Information System  Sloan Management Review Vol 38, No. 3, pp. 65-76, 1997 4 Ca ppe lli P Making the most of online recruiting  Harvard Business Review Vol. 79, No. 3, pp. 139-146 2001 5 Cobe r, R  T Brow n, D  J K e e p ing  L  M., a nd L e vy   P. E Recruitment on the Net: How do organizational Web site characteristics influence applicant perceptions  Journal of Management Vol. 30, pp 623-646, 2004 6 Collie r, J.E. a n d Bie n stoc k   C.C Measuring service quality in e-retailing  Journal of Service Research  Vol. 8, No. 3, pp. 260-275, 2006 7 Cox  J. a n d Da le B  G  S e r v i c e qua lity a nd e commerce: an exploratory analysis Managing Service Quality Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 121-31, 2001  Cri sp i n  G  an d M e rl er M   Career X R o ad s 20 06 Sources of Hire Study, www.careerxroads.com retrieved June 15, 2008 9 Culle n  B E re c r uiting is driv i ng HR s y st e m s  integration  Strategic Finance Vol. 83, No.1, p. 3 2001 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 10 D e L one  W  H  a n d Mc L e a n E.R   T he D e L one a nd McLean Model of Information Systems Success: A Ten-Year Update Journal of Management Information Systems Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 9-30, 2003 11 D e nz i n N  K  a nd L i nc o l n, Y  S Handbook of Qualitative Research Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA 1994 1 Di n een  B  L i n g  J  A s h  S  an d Del V ecch i o  D   Aesthetic properties and message customisation Navigating the dark side of web recruitment  Journal of Applied Psychology Vol. 92, No. 2, pp. 356-372 2007 13 Fe l d m a n, D  a nd K l a a s B Inte rne t j o b h unti n g  A  field study of applicant experiences with online recruitment Human Resource Management Vol. 41 No. 2, pp. 175-201, 2002 14 G a la nk i, E The decision to recruit online: A descriptive study  Career Development International  Vol. 7, No. 4, 2002 1 G u eu t a l  H G  an d S t on e D  L    The Brave New World of eHR: Human resources management in the digital age Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, 2005 16 H a da y a  P  a nd Et hie r J  Online purchasing of simple goods: the impact of e-service quality as provided by electronic commerce functionalities  Proceedings of the 41 st Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2008 1 G r  n r oo s C   Service Management and Marketing Customer Management in Service Competition 3rd Edition, Wiley & Sons, Chichester, 2007 18 Ho llow a y  B.B. a nd Be a tty S.E Satisfiers and Dissatisfiers in the Online Environment: A Critical Incident Assessment  Journal of Service Research  Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 347-364, 2008 1 Kl ei n H K and M y ers M  D  A S e t o f P r i n ci p l es for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems MIS Quarterly Vol 23, No. 1, pp. 67-93, 1999 20 Kri ppe nd orf f  K Reliability in content analysis some common misconceptions and recommendations  Human Communication Research Vol. 30, pp. 411433, 2004 21 L e e  I The evolution of e-recruiting: A content analysis of Fortune 100 career web sites  Journal of Electronic Commerce in Organizations Vol. 3, No. 3 pp. 57-68, 2005 22 Le e  T W   Using qualitative methods in organizational research Sage, Thousand Oaks, 1999 2 Ngw e n g a m a O K and A  S  L ee  Communication Richness in Electronic Mail: Critical Social Theory and the Contextuality of Meaning  MIS Quarterly  Vol. 21, pp. 145 167, 1997 2 L i even s F  an d Harris  M   Research o n I n tern et  recruiting and testing: current status and future directions, In: Cooper, C., Robertson, I. \(Eds International Review of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Vol. 18, pp. 131-165, 2003 25 L i n, C S. a nd W u  S Ex pl oring t h e im pa c t of on line  service quality on portal site usage Proceedings of the 35th Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2002 26 Mc Cu ne J  C Good help is hard to find  Management Review Vol. 86, No. 6, pp. 30-31, 1997 27  Mile s   M.B. a nd H ube rm an, A  M Qualitative data analysis: An expanded sourcebook Thousand Oaks CA, Sage, 1994 28  P a rasu ram a n  A Zeith am l, V  A  an d Mal h o t ra A ES-Qual: A Multiple-Item Scale for Assessing Electronic Service Quality Journal of Service Research Vol. 7, No. 3, pp. 213-233, 2005 29 P a rry  E Drivers of the adoption of online recruitment an analysis using diffurion of innovation theory In Bondarouk, T.V., Ruël, H.J.M. \(Eds\E-HRM in theory and practice. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2008 30 a tto n  M.Q  Qualitative research and evaluation methods Thousand Oaks, CA, Sage, 2002 31 R odg e r s  W N e g a s h S. a n d Suk  K  The moderating effect of online experience on the antecedents and consequences of online satisfaction  Psychology Marketing Vol. 22, No. 4, pp. 313-331, 2005 32 R o w l e y J An Analysis of the E-Service Literature Towards a Research Agenda  Internet Research Vol 16, No. 13, pp. 339-359, 2006 3 Ru st  R T  an d Kann an   P  K   E-Service: A New Paradigm for Business in the Electronic Environment  Communications of the ACM Vol. 46, No. 5, pp. 3742. 2003 34  Sa c h a f P  a n d Oltm a nn, S M Equality and e-service quality  Proceedings of the 40 st Hawaii International Conference on System Science 2007 35 Sa n t os, J E-service quality A model of virtual service quality dimensions  Managing Service Quality Vol.13, No. 3, pp. 233-246, 2003 3  S m i t h  A  D an d Rup p W  T    Managerial challenges of e-recruiting  Online Information Review Vol. 28 No. 1, pp. 61-74, 2004 37 St one D  L Sto n e Rom e r o, E. F  a nd L u k a s z e w s k i  K Factors affecting the acceptance and effectiveness of electronic human resource systems  Human Resource Management Review Vol. 16, No. 2, pp 229-244, 2006 38 T ong J D u f f y  V Cros s  G  T s ung F. a nd Y e n, B Evaluating the industrial ergonomics of service quality for online recruitment websites  International  Journal of Industrial Ergonomics Vol. 35, pp. 697711, 2005 39  Va n Ma a n e n J  A n End of I nnoc e n c e T h e Ethnography of Ethnography," In: Representation in Ethnography, J. Van Maanen \(ed.\ge, Thousand Oaks, CA, pp. 1-35, 1995 40 W o lf inba rg e r M. a nd G ill y  M.C eTailQ Dimensionalizing, measuring and predicting etail quality  Journal of Retailing Vol. 79, No. 3, pp. 183198, 2003 41 W o lte rs M The Effectiveness of job board Internet Recruitment Proceedings of the First European Academic Workshop on e-HRM, The Netherlands 2006 4 Z u sm an  R an d L a n d i s R   Applicant preferences for web-based versus traditional job posting  Computers in Human Behaviour Vol. 18, pp. 285-296, 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Alan Little is the MEDLI Project Manager at NASA's Langley Research Center He previously served on a variety of earth remote sensing missions and recently served as the NASA-CNES interface manager and the payload assembly integration and test manager on the joint NASAICNES CALIPSO Mission that was launched in April 2006 He has a MS in Optics from the University of Rochester Neil Cheatwood earned B.S MS and Ph.D degrees in aerospace engineering from NC State University He has played key roles in a number of NASA's planetary atmospheric flight programs and is a nationally recognized expert in aerosciences and flight mechanics for planetary entry systems He is currently serving as the Hypersonics Project Scientist for the Fundamental Aeronautics Program with NASA's ARMD Dr Cheatwood is also the Principle Investigator for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project In recent years he led NASA LaRC efforts to develop inflatable aeroshell technologies He served as CoInvestigator to Claude Graves of NASA JSC on the NASA ESMD ESR&T Inflatable Aeroshell and TPS Development IA TD Project He served as the Principle Investigator for NASA LaRCs Inflatable Reentry Vehicle Experiment IRVE as well as the follow-on Program to Advance Inflatable Decelerators for Atmospheric Entry PAI-DAE Dr Cheatwood was responsible for aerodynamic databases of Stardust Mars Microprobe Genesis and Mars Exploration Rovers He has also contributed to the Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Sample Return flight projects Dr Cheatwood is an AIAA Associate Fellow and the principle author or co-author of 60 technical publications in the fields of fluid dynamics atmospheric entry and systems engineering Jeff Herath serves as the Lead Systems Engineer and Chief Engineer for the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI He also serves as the Assistant Head of the Atmospheric Flight and Entry Systems Branch AFESB to plan direct and coordinate Branch activities in the areas offlight and entry systems research and development Mr Herath previously was the Acting Assistant Branch Head for Electronic Systems and served as the branch leadfor new business activities proposals and their development He was also the Principal Investigator PI for the Radiation Tolerant Intelligent Memory Stack RTIMS Project which successfully developed and demonstrated an in-flight reconfigurable radiation tolerant stacked memory array He co-founded Vianix LC a company developing and licensing voice compression technology and served as its Chief Technology Officer He developed the company's voice compression technology and was responsible for all research  development engineering personnel and production efforts He has 6 patents As Manager of Hardware Development at Arc Second Inc he designed and built a unique laser based three-dimensional positioning system which opened new markets for the company At E-Systems he successfully completed several military avionics programs and payload that were classified and consisted of system box and board level designs Michelle Munk has been a NASA employee for nearly 20 years first at the Johnson Space Center then at the Langley Research Center She has been involved in Mars advanced mission studies for many years both robotic and human contributing interplanetary trajectory analysis and entry and descent analysis She has managed the delivery of International Space Station hardware and was on the Mars Odyssey aerobraking operations team In 2002 Ms Munk accepted a detail assignment to become the Lead Engineer for Aerocapture Technology Development under In-Space Propulsion at Marshall Space Flight Center She managed the technical work of ISP Aerocapture for nearly 5 years before becoming the Project Area Manager and returning to Langley in 2007 Ms Munk is also a subsystem leadfor the Mars Science Laboratory Entry Descent and Landing Instrumentation MEDLI project and contributes to other NASA projects developing entry system technologies She has a BSAE from Virginia Tech and completed graduate coursework at the University of Houston Frank Novak is an Assistant Branch Head for Remote Sensing Flight Systems Branch RSFSB at the NASA Langley Research Center LaRC in Hampton VA He serves as the MEDLI Subsystem Manager for the Sensor Support Electronics SSE system Mr Novak has over 20 years of experience in the design development and test of spaceflight electronics He served as the lead development manager for the EVA IR Camera Project lead engineer for the visible imager for the GIFTS project lead electronics engineer for the pointing spectrometer for the Mars ARES project lead integration and test engineer for the SAGE III project and lead engineer for the interface adaptor module for SAGE III He earned a BS in Physics from Christopher Newport University in 1999 11 


Ed Martinez is a Project Manager/Lead Scientist/Project Engineer with 20 years experience in the aerospace and electromechanical field He is responsible for leading the Thermal Protection System TPS instrumentation programs for the NASA Ames Research Center As Project Manager he simultaneously managed multiple teams of scientists engineers and engineering technicians responsible for TPS projects including test analysis and technology advancement As Lead Scientist he was engaged in the characterization and operations of the world's largest shock tube This facility produced simultaneous overpressure and thermal environments at shock speeds up to Mach 5 As a Project Engineer his experience included project initiation coordination and providing design and instrument criteria for operating multi-100 million dollar DoD facilities Mr Martinez also managed data handling performed analysis reporting of test results and maintained technical proficiency in shockwave phenomenology 12 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


