Note Taking and Note Sharing While Browsing Campaign Information  Scott P. Robertson  University of Hawaii Information & Computer Sciences Department Ravi Vatrapu University of Hawaii Information & Computer Sciences Department George Abraham Drexel University College of Information Science and Technology  scott.robertson, vatrapu }@hawaii.edu,  george.abraham@ischool.drexel.edu 
  Abstract  Participants were observed while searching and browsing the internet for campaign information in a mock-voting situation in three online note-taking conditions: No Notes, Pr ivate Notes, and Shared Notes.  Note taking significantly influenced the manner in which participants browsed for information about candidat es. Note taking competed for time and cognitive resources and resulted in less thorough browsing. Effects were strongest when participants thought that their notes would be seen by others. Think-aloud comments indicated that participants were more eval uative when taking notes 
especially shared notes. Our results suggest that there could be design trade-offs between eDemocracy and e-Participation technologies   1. Introduction  The internet has grown into an important political information tool. Usage by candidates and citizens in the United States has grown tremendously over the last several election cycles [1 m it h   Ra in ie [3 report that 46% of Americans have used the internet to get news and information about the 2008 U.S presidential campaign. According to Kohut of Americans \(42% between the ages of 18-29\aid 
that they used the internet regularly to gain campaign information Politicians and citizens have also begun to use a wide variety of internet tools. Just as the Howard Dean campaign gained credit for innovative use of organizational internet tools, blogs, and online referenda in 2000 [5,6 e cu rren t ca m p ai gn of Barack Obama is gaining a reputation as an innovator on social networks such as MySpace and Facebook  ou gh a ll ca m p aigns h a v e e f f e cti v el y us ed these social networks e m o n e y  rais e  
awareness, and build constituencies [see also  Hillary Clinton used web video to announce her candidacy, and YouTube has assumed a central role in the debates for the 2008 presidential election Evidence suggests that wired voters are exposed to more points of view about candidates and issues than voters who do not use the internet, and that internet users do not narrow information consumption to their own special interests Growth in use of internet-based information sources and technologies is so rapid that theory 
development and empirical study is lagging behind We have argued for a design science approach to the study of technology-enhanced political information behavior [10-12 w h ic h in v o lv e s  continuous cycles of development and empirical study of information systems for e-Democracy however in practice we are discovering that these cycles must be quite rapid.  Robertson, Wania Abraham, & Park e n t ed data on a s t u d y o f a drop-down interface to a search query engine and 
showed that the interface encouraged more issuebased consideration of the candidates. Here we extend our study of this interface to include an annotation component. Before discussing our study we briefly review issues related to note taking in general and web annotation in particular  1.1 Note Taking and Web Annotation  Debriefing sessions from our previous studies have often revealed a desire among browsers of political information to make point-by-point 
comparisons of candidates, an activity that should be enhanced by the ability to take notes. Also participation in political blog s and candidate-centered social networking sites suggests that many web users are eager to share their thoughts about political issues with others and curious to view the thoughts of others. We therefore studied several users of our previously-designed drop-down search query interf n d er v a ri ou s  w e b ann o tation conditions Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


Note taking is a way to select important pieces of information from a larger set of items and transfer that information to a local external memory for later use.  Note taking may also enhance retention or understanding by helping learners focus their attention and concentrate on important information Note taking is common in learning situations [13  and many attempts have been made to develop annotation systems that can be used during web browsing l t h ough n o t e t a k i ng s e e m s intuitively helpful, empirical studies suggest that its usefulness depends on a number of factors related to the learning task and the structure of the notes themselves [15 A co m m o n f i n d in g is th at n o te taking takes a toll on cognitive load and can interrupt attention in ways that are often not inconsequential 16Notes can be private or shared. Shared notes are often found in workgroup situations where individuals can use them to communicate with each other about what different members find to be important and what individuals think other group members should notice. Shared notes are often associated with information artifacts \(e.g. marginalia and sticky-notes\he web has offered new opportunities for shared annotation, and many shared annotation systems in which web pages can have notes associated with them have been developed [19  g ai n  al t h ough  w e b a n n o t a t i o n s e e m s l i k e a  promising direction for developers [13, 21 t u d i e s of web-based annotation systems have shown only marginal improvements in learning, [22, 23 h ared  annotation environments, however, might have the consequence of creating communities of interes  1.2 Current Study  In this study we concentrated on how note taking might influence information browsing behavior when participants are seeking information about political candidates in order to make a voting decision. If note taking requires greater cognitive effort that competes with the learning task, then participants who are taking notes should show less effective browsing behavior. On the other hand, if note taking enhances learning, then we should see more effective browsing behavior. We were also interested in how private notes intended for oneself might differ from shared notes intended to be seen by others ared n o tes  serve a more public purpose and might require greater thought Figure 1: VotesBy.US Portal: The drop-down search interface allows users to select candidates from one list and issues from a second list. Menu selections result in automatic Google searches Results are returned in s results list with tabbed categories \(Web, News, Blog, Video, Book Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


Our primary experimental purpose was to study annotation, however we also added features to a developing voter-browser environment as part of an iterative design exercise. Added features, described below and pictured in Figure 1, were a visible query box, topically organized issue list, and content-tabbed results pages  2. Method  2.1 Participants  Thirteen participants were recruited, using information flyers, from areas around Drexel University in Philadelphia, PA. Data was collected from July 05, 2007 to August 07, 2007. Each participant was paid $35 for their time The age of the participants ranged from 20.0 years to 48.0 years with an average of 33.4 years. One participant each reported high school and 2-year College education whereas nine participants reported 4-year College with the remaining 2 participants reporting an education level of graduate school Three participants self-reported as Mixed Race  one participant self-reported as Native American or Alaskan another participant selected the category of Puerto Rican American \(Commonwealth and the remaining nine participants selected the category of White \(non-Hispanic  Five participants reported being affiliated with the Democratic Party, three as Independents, one participant as affiliated with the Green Party and the rest of the four selected the category of Other  Ten out of the thirteen total participants selfreported as having voted in a federal, state, and/or city election in the past. These ten participants further reported that they had cast their vote in the USA general election of 2004. Of the ten participants with positive past electoral voting participation, seven reported that they voted in most elections while the remaining three reported voting in all elections When asked about how often they use the Internet from home, nine participants reported several times a day one participant reported once a day one participant reported once every few weeks and the remaining two participants reported using the Internet less often than every few weeks. With respect to the use of Internet at work, five participants reported several times a day three participants reported once a day one participant reported once every few weeks and four participants reported using the Internet less often than once every few weeks Figure 2. Google Noteboo k allowed users to make notes. In this example a participant has copied text from a web page that they are browsing into a Notebook shown in the smaller window Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


Figure 3. Total Session Time in Minutes Regarding the use of Internet for political information seeking, only one participant each reported several times a day and once a day. Five participants reported using the Internet for political information seeking once or twice a week four participants once every few weeks and two participants reported using the Internet for looking up political information less often than once every few weeks Participants were assigned randomly to one of three note-taking conditions No Notes  Private Notes or Shared Notes Four participants \(2 female, 2 male\were assigned to No Notes four participants were assigned to Private Notes and five participants 1 female, 4 male\were assigned to Shared  Notes   2.2 Materials and Procedure  All participants were given a scenario about a mock-voting situation and instructions on how to use a drop-down search interface \(Figure 1\earch the internet for campaign information. The scenario asked subjects to imagine that they had just moved to Louisiana where a gubernatorial election was coming up. The participants were informed that there were four candidates for Louisiana Governor: Bobby Jindal, Walter Boasso, John Georges, and Foster Campbell. These were actual candidates in an upcoming election at the time the study was conducted.  Participants were told that they were going to vote for one candidate for the governor of the state of Louisiana and that they should use the search interface to find out what they needed to know in order to make a choice. Materials that participants  discovered and browsed on the internet were real and current campaign materials Participants in the two annotation conditions were instructed about taking notes with Google Notebook Figure 2\articipants in the Shared Notes condition were told that their notes would be available for other users to see when those users were browsing the same materials, whereas participants in the Private Notes condition were told that their notes were for their use only In order to search the internet, participants used an interface with two drop-down selection menus, one listing the candidates names and another listing a set of issues \(see Figure 1\obertson et al described the initial design of this drop-down  search interface and showed that it results in more thorough and complete searching and browsing than a free-form query box. Selections from the dropdown lists generated queries which were visible in a query box and which were automatically sent to Google. Selection of a candidate resulted in a search query consisting of that candidate s name and the office \(e.g Bobby Jindal Governor Louisiana  Selection of an issue resulted in a search query consisting of the issue keyword \(e.g taxes hen menu items were selected from both lists the result was a combined query \(e.g Bobby Jindal Governor Louisiana taxes  An AJAX API to Google was utilized to display search results on pages with the following content categorization tabs Web, News, Blog, Video and  Book Participants could page through results lists, or look at the results lists under each tab, or open web pages from the results lists While carrying out the tasks described in the scenario participants were encouraged to think aloud Software was used to capture and integrate the search behavior and verbalizations of the each participant An experimenter remotely tagged the capture file while the participant was searching for information These tags were adapted from previous studies we conducted on online political information seeking behavi Participan ts  w e re g i v e n as long as they wished to search and instructed that they should tell the experimenter when they were ready to vote After voting, participants were given a recall survey and an exit questionnaire  3. Results  3.1 Time  Participants were allowed as much time as they needed to complete the task. They made the choice of when to stop browsing and vote.  On average Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


Figure 4. Frequencies of Searching and Browsing Activities the Three Annotation Conditions participants spent 53.36 minutes browsing, and there was no significant difference in time spent across the three annotation conditions \(see Figure 3  3.2 Confidence in the Final Vote  Participants rated their confidence in their final vote on a Likert scale from 1-5 where higher values signified greater confidence. The average confidence rating was a 2.61, and there was no significant difference in confidence across the three annotation conditions  3.3 Searching and Information Browsing   We conducted an analysis of the screen recordings of participants activities. Morae Observer TM was used for the coding of the participant sessions for following events: search queries, website visits return to the search results, think-aloud comments making annotations, and reviewing annotations. The resulting screen recordings along with the marker data were analyzed using Morae Manager TM 2.0 We compared several searching and browsing activities across the three annotation conditions. In each case we conducted an overall ANOVA on the means in the three annotation conditions, a planned comparison of the No Notes condition with the combined annotation conditions, and \(if the ANOVA was significant\ post-hoc comparison \(Tukey HSD test\ of means. Dependent measures that we examined in this way were number of search queries, number of websites visited, number of returns to the results list, and number of think-aloud comments made. Figure 4 shows the means for all of these measures across the three annotation conditions  3.3.1 Search Queries  Possible search queries were categorized as being Candidate Name selecting a candidate name from one of the drop-down lists without selecting an issue Issue selecting an issue from one of the drop down lists without selecting a candidate\r Candidate+Issue selecting a candidate name and an issue to a combined search\ Participants made no  Issue searches. A within-subjects comparison showed that participants made significantly more Candiate+Issue searches \(mean=13.15\an Candidate Name searches \(mean=4.23 t 12\2.65 p 05. This is consistent with our prior work [10, 11  showing that the drop-down interface encourages more complex queries about where candidates stand on various issues The number of Candidate Name search queries that participants made differed significantly across the three annotation conditions, with means=1.7, 5.5 and 5.2 queries per participant for No Notes  Private Notes and Shared Notes conditions respectively F 2,10\64 p 05.  The contrast test between No Notes and the combined note taking conditions was significant t 10\3.05 p 01\. Tukey HSD post-hoc comparisons showed that the annotation conditions did not differ from each other, but that both annotation conditions differed from the No Notes  condition p 05 for No Notes versus Private Notes  and p 06 for No Notes versus Shared Notes  The number of Candidate+Issue search queries that participants made differed significantly across the three annotation conditions, with means=21.2 14.7, and 5.4 queries per participant for No Notes  Private Notes and Shared Notes conditions respectively F 2,10\10 p 05.  The contrast test between No Notes and the combined note taking conditions was significant t 10\2.22 p 05 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Tukey HSD post-hoc comparisons showed that the No Notes condition differed significantly from the Shared Notes condition p 05  3.3.2 Websites Visited  The number of websites visited decreased across the three annotation conditions, with means=39.5, 27.0 and 18.2 websites per participant for No Notes  Private Notes and Shared Notes conditions respectively.  The overall trend did not reach significance at the .05 level, but could be considered suggestive with such a small n F 2,10\2.75 p 11 The contrast between No Notes and the combined note taking conditions was also suggestive t 10\07 p 07  3.3.3 Returns to Results List  The number of returns to the results list decreased across the three annotation conditions, with means=33.0, 25.0, and 14.0 returns per participant for No Notes  Private Notes and Shared Notes  conditions respectively, F\(2,10\22, p<.05.  The contrast between No Notes and the combined note taking conditions was significant t 10\27 p 05 Tukey HSD post-hoc comparisons showed that the No Notes condition differed significantly from the Shared Notes condition p 05  3.3.4 Comments  The number of comments appeared to increase when participants were taking notes, with means=28.2, 39.5, and 39.6 comments per participant for No Notes  Private Notes and Shared Notes  conditions respectively, although this effect was not significant  3.3.5 Correlations  The number of Candiate+Issue queries, the number of returns to the results lists, and the number of websites visited were all highly positively correlated with each other \(Table 1\The number of Candidate Name queries was negatively correlated with the number of Candidate+Issue queries, but this is an artifact of the interface \(since the usual method of making Candidate+Issue queries was to select a candidate first and then follow it with selections of several issues, which generates a single Candidate Name query for every set of Candiate+Issue queries The number of Candidate Name queries was also negatively correlated \(though not significantly\ with number of returns to results and number of websites visited. Though marginal, together these negative correlations suggest that Candidate Name searchers were not as thorough as Candidate+Issue searchers Number of comments was positively correlated with both confidence r 13 p 05, and session time r 13 p 06, although confidence and session time were not correlated with each other  3.4 Content of Think-Aloud Comments  Transcription of the think-aloud comments resulted in 457 individual comments. Following [11  e com m e n t s  w e re coded in to 10 categ ories by  two coders \(RV and AJ\ndependently. Cohen s Kappa for assessing inter-coder reliability was initially 0.62, which translates to moderate agreement  T h e coders recon c iled dif f e re n ces a n d  eventually assigned each comment to a final category as follows \(see Figure 5     Goal \(3 A statement about what the participant plans to do, e.g I am going to see if there is anything noteworthy here OR I am going to delve into some things in more detail    Action \(9 A statement describing what the participant was doing, e.g I am trying to look at the local news on this page OR I am looking at his website    Question \(3 An interrogative statement, e.g What does he say about war OR Why is Blanco here    Evaluative General \(20 A general evaluative remark but not related to the ballot item, e.g I am going to stay away from blogs OR This looks out of date    Evaluative about an issue \(18 Evaluative comment but cannot be determined positive or negative about a political issue, e.g He is for single gender classrooms, which I don t know is good or bad OR He suggests instituting a tax on oil and gas   Candidate Issue Returns to Results Websites Visited Candidate Name r 13\.70  p 01 r 13\.50  p 08 r 13\.41  p 17 Candidate Issue  r 13\65  p 01 r 13\55  p 05 Returns to Results  r 13\94  p 001 Table 1. Correlations between querying and browsing activities  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


Figure 5: Frequencies of Think Aloud Comment Categories in the Three Annotation Conditions   Positive about an issue \(5 A good evaluative comment in support of a political issue, e.g I like how he worked for hurricane and stuff OR Strikes me better than the other candidate, talks about other important issues    Negative about an issue \(8 A bad evaluative remark about a political issue, e.g He voted yes on wire tapping, I don t like that either OR He can t even impress me with his own website    Fact Discovery \(12 A statement of a nonevaluative piece of information about one of the candidates, e.g It is an open seat, that s what I thought OR Oh, he is a state senator    Issue \(8 A non-evaluative statement about a particular political issue, e.g I am curious about their stance on Illegal Immigration, but not finding much OR He seems to be focused on resolving the crime issue, more so than the others    General Statement \(14 A non-evaluative comment not specifically about a candidate, e.g I am new to the state so don t know a lot of stuff OR I am beginning to understand this   By far the largest percentage of comments \(51 were evaluative in some way. Figure 5 shows the distribution of comments across the three annotation conditions. In general, when there are large discrepancies among the three annotation conditions they tend to be in the direction of more commenting when taking notes, especially shared notes. The greatest variation across annotation conditions involves the Evaluative General and Evaluative Issue comments.  In both cases, note taking increased commenting, and Shared Notes elicited twice as many evaluative comments about issues than Private Notes   4. Discussion  4.1 Summary  Our results can be summarized as follows    Participants did not take more time when they took notes, which meant that they had to use less time for searching and browsing in the annotation conditions   Participants performed more Candidate+Issue  searches than simple candidate name searches   Participants never searched just on issues   Candidate + Issue searches resulted in more activity and exposure to more information   Taking notes, especially shared notes, resulted in a reduction in number of searches   Taking notes, especially shared notes, resulted in fewer returns to examine results lists   Taking notes, especially shared notes, resulted in exposure to less information as evidenced by number of websites visited   Taking notes resulted in more reflection on action as evidenced by number of comments   Reflection on action, as evidenced by number of comments, increased confidence in the final vote   Participants were primarily thinking about evaluative issues while searching and browsing Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


  Taking notes, especially shared notes, increased evaluative reflection  Taken together, these results show that note taking has a powerful influence on the type of searching and browsing that people do when making a voting decision. The fact that note taking reduces the extent and thoroughness of searching and browsing is perhaps a negative influence. However note taking does seem to increase evaluative thought and so could also be shifting cognitive effort from information foraging and gathering to information analysis and synthesis 4.2 Voter-Browser Design A major goal of our series of experiments in this area [12, 26, 28, 29 to dev e lop a br ow s i n g tool to help voters using iterative prototyping based on empirical data. In previous res w e  developed the drop-down interface and demonstrated its efficacy for increasing the depth and complexity of searches beyond the typical candidate-name-only query. In this study we have replicated our finding with regard to increased issue-based searching, and we intended to introduce a new annotation component to the browser. Our results, however, give us pause in suggesting that adding an annotation feature is a good idea We also hoped to gain some understanding about how annotation sharing might be integrated into a voter browser. The introduction of sharing moves the application into the realm of a socio-technical system. Even in this impoverished situation where the voters know little about the candidates and issues and where they do not know who will see their notes they behaved quite differently when they thought their notes would be shared. How much more of an impact on searching and browsing might there be in real situations where the voters are more engaged with the issues and where they are sharing their notes/thoughts with a community of interest? Shared notes have a communicative purpose that private notes do not.  Our results suggest that voters wish to share their evaluative analyses. This is a significant added feature to the task of gathering information about how to vote. However, this is precisely the added feature on which social networking sites and blogs capitalize, and the use of these sites in political discourse is increasing dramatically A second design feature that was added to the drop-down interface in this study was the content category tabs. These tabs organize results into Web News, Blog, Video and Book categories \(see Figure 1\hile we did not concentrate on the tab feature in this article, it is worth noting that participants did not use it much and that some participants even explicitly mentioned that they were going to stay away from blogs Reluctance to use the tab feature is yet another indication that searching and browsing in order to make a voting decision is a demanding task from which users do not want many distractions We speculate that avoidance of blogs may have to do with the perceived value of political dialog in final decision making. Vatrapu, Robertson, & Dissanayake 30 h a v e p o i n t ed o u t th at p o litical b l o g s o p e rate as both public spheres and partisan spheres. Blog information could be most useful for forming general impressions or developing opinions over time in social contexts, but less useful for actually deciding something. Again, this is a contrast of deliberation versus decision tasks, and may provide  a meaningful caution to designers interested in combining social technologies with decision support tools. On the other hand, many of our participants made considerable use of Wikipedia, another social technology, but one that is perceived as more objective Thus, when considering integration of social technologies in a voter-browser, the type of discourse and style of collaborative information management is important  4.3 E-Democracy Versus E-Participation When generalized, the issues discussed above raise a larger question of whether there will be important tradeoffs between e-Democracy \(involving information gathering and choice making\d eParticipation \(involving discourse and social deliberation\ technologies. Tradeoffs include design decisions for developers \(e.g. Will the addition of a chat feature decrease searching and browsing?\or users \(e.g. Will I get more out of using a candidate s social networking site or their website?\d theorists \(e.g. Does technology that emphasizes participation negatively impact information Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


consumption? Or conversely, does information overload negatively impact civic participation While many researchers have noted dramatically increased participation of politicians and voters especially younger voters, in social networking contexts, we have yet to find out if this will translate into being better informed or into actual voting Individuals vote, communities don t. While voting decisions are influenced by others and by one s socially constructed identity and culturally constituted subjectivity, the nature of the secret ballot is such that the individual is the dominant decision maker when the ballot is cast. In previous research  e disco v ered th at s i m p l y i n te g r ating a n on li n e  ballot with a political information browser was rejected by users possibly because they do not feel that these are similar activities. The success of integrating social technologies with information browsers will depend on the degree to which information sharing and political discourse is considered to be different by nature from information gathering and decision making 5. Future Work  This study serves a second purpose as a pilot study for examining integration of personal and social information management tools with a voterbrowser. In terms of continued development of the drop-down interface \(which currently resides on the web at http://www.VotesBy.US\we intend to examine personalization of the drop-down items in future research. We also intend to explore how discourse and deliberation components such as chats and blogs might impact use of the browser. The current results suggest that these technologies will have very significant impacts on browsing behavior and that the collaboration environment and style of discourse will have an impact on their acceptance and usefulness With the increased use of social networking tools in this year s election cycle in the United States, we have also been studying users of Facebook s political applications. This is an example of an application that is primarily social and deliberative and secondarily informational Finally, we feel that the question of tradeoffs between technologies for e-Democracy and eParticipation is a surprising and important one, and we intend to explore this in more detail as well  6. Acknowledgements  This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. IIS0535036 to the first author.  Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation   7. References  1 L  Rain e, J. Ho rrig a n  an d M  Co rn f i eld   The Internet and Campaign 2004", Pew Internet and American Life Project Report, Washington, DC, 2005. Available at http://www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/PIP_2004_Campaign.pdf 2 A  P  W illia m s a nd J. C  T e de sc o, T h e Inte rne t Election: Perspectives on the Web in Campaign 2004 Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2006 3 A  S m ith, a nd L  Ra ine  The Inte rne t a nd the 20 08  election", Pew Internet and American Life Project Report Pew Research Center, Washington, DC. 2008. Available at http://www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/PIP_2008_election.pdf 4 A  K ohu t S oc ia l N e tw ork i ng a nd O n li ne  Vide os T a k e  Off: Internet s Broader Role in Campaign 2008", Pew Internet and American Life Project Report, Pew Research Center, Washington, DC, 2008. Available at http://www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/Pew_MediaSources_jan0 8.pdf, 2008 5 M. C o rnf i e l d T he Inte rne t a nd C a m p a i g n 2004: A  Look Back at the Campaigners", Pew Research Center Washington, D.C, 2005. Available at http://www.pewinternet.org/files/Cornfield_commentary.pd f 6 J. T r ippi T h e Re v o lutio n W ill Not Be T e le v i se d Democracy, the Internet, and the Overthrow of Everything Regan Books, 2004 7 A  Sulliv a n   B a r a c k Oba m a is Ma ste r of the Ne w Facebook Politics", Sunday London Times, May 25, 2008 Available at Times Online http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/andr ew_sullivan/article3997523.ece 8 B. W illia m s  a nd G   G u la ti  The Political Impact of Facebook: Evidence from the 2006 Midterm Elections and 2008 Nomination Contest Politics and Technology Review  vol. 1, pp. 11-21, 2008 9 J. Ho rrig a n  K. G a rrett, an d  P. Resn ick   The Internet and Democratic Debate", Pew Internet and American Life Project Report, Washington, DC, 2004. Available at Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


http://www.pewinternet.org/pdfs/PIP_Political_Info_Repor t.pdf 10 S  P  Ro b e rtso n   Voter-Centered Design: Toward a Voter Decision Support System", ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction \(TOCHI\ol. 12, no. 2, pp 263-292, 2005 11 S P. Robe rts on D e s ig n Re se a r c h in Dig ita l Government: A Query Prosthesis for Voters", Proceedings of dg.o2008: 9th Annual Conference on Digital Government Research, New York: ACM Press, 2008 12 S P. R o be rts on, C  E  W a nia  G   A b ra ham  a nd S.J   Park Drop-Down Democracy: Internet Portal Design Influences Voters' Search Strategies Proceedings of the 41 st Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2008 13 C  C Marshall  Annotation: From Paper Books to the Digital Library", Proceedings of the Second ACM International Conference on Digital Libraries, pp. 131-140 1997 14 L  D e noue a nd L  Vig noll e t Personal Information Organization Using Web Annota tions", Proceedings of the WebNet 2001 World Conference on the WWW and Internet, pp. 279-283, 2001 15 L  B  Ig o, K   A  K i ew ra  a nd R  B r uning  Individual Differences and Intervention Flaws: A Sequential Explanatory Study of College Students' Copy-and-Paste Note Taking", Journal of Mixed Methods Research, vol. 2 no. 2, pp. 149-168, 2008 16 R. E  May e r, an d R. Mo ren o  Nine Ways to Reduce Cognitive Load in Multimedia Learning", Educational Psychologist, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 43-52, 2003 17 T  Oliv e  R. T  Ke llog g   a nd A  P i ola t  T he  T r iple Task Technique for Studying the Process of Writing", In T Olive and C. Levy, eds., Contemporary Tools and Techniques for Studying Writing, pp. 31-59, Dordrecht Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001 18 A  P i ola t T  Oliv e   a nd R. T  K e llog g   Cognitive Effort During Note Taking", Applied Cognitive Psychology, vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 291-312, 2005 1 I G l o v er Z  Xu  an d G  H a rd aker  Online Annotation Research and Practices", Computers Education, vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 1308-1320, 2007 20  P  L  R a u  S  H  C h e n  a n d Y  T  C h i n   Developing Web Annotation Tools for Learners and Instructors Interacting with Computers  vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 163-181 2004 21  X Fu, T  C i s z e k G  Ma rchio n ini  a n d P   Sol o m on  Annotating the Web: An Exploratory Study of Web Users  Needs for Personal Annotation Tools", Proceedings of the 68th Annual Meeting of the American Society for Information Science & Technology, 42. Charlotte, NC 2005 22 W  Y  H w a n g  C  Y  W a n g  a n d M  S h a r p l e s   A Study of Multimedia Annotation of Web-Based Materials Computers & Education, vol. 48, no. 4, pp. 680-699, 2007 23  P  Nok e la ine n M. Mie tti ne n, J. Kurhila  P. Flore e n   and H. Tirri   A Shared Document-Based Annotation Tool to Support Learner-Centred Collaborative Learning British Journal of Educational Technology, vol. 36, no. 5 pp. 757-770, 2005 24 J  J  C a diz  A  G upta  a n d J  G r udin Using Web Annotations for Asynchronous Collaboration Around Documents", Proceedings of the 2000 ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, pp. 309-318 2000 25 C  C  Ma rs ha ll a nd A  J  B  B r us h Exploring the Relationship Between Personal and Public Annotations Proceedings of the 2004 Joint ACM/IEEE Conference on Digital Libraries, pp. 349-357, 2004 26  S P. R obe rts o n, C  E W a nia  a n d S J   P a rk  An Observational Study of Voters on the Internet Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2007 2 J L a n d i s and G  Ko ch   The Measurement of Observer Agreement for Categorical Data", Biometrics vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 159-174, 1977 28 S   P  R obe rtso n Digital Deliberation: Searching and Deciding About How to Vote", Proceedings of dg.o2006 7th Annual Conference on Digital Government Research New York: ACM Press, 2006 29 S P. Ro be rts on P. A c ha na nupa rp, J  L  G o ldm a n  S.J Park, N. Zhou, and M. J. Clare  Voting and Political Information Gathering on Paper and Online", Extended Abstracts of CHI '05: Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York: ACM Press, pp. 1753-1756, 2005 30 R  Va tr a pu S P. R o be r t s on, a nd W  D i s s a na y a k e   Are Political Weblogs Public Spheres or Partisan Spheres International Reports on Socio-Informatics, in press   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


BIOGRAPHY Sonia Vohnout Sonia Vohnout is Systems Engineer at Ridgetop Group Inc She received her Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from the University of Costa Rica and Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Systems Engineering from the University of Arizona In the past she has worked for Modular Mining IBM and AT&T Bell Laboratories She previously owned and operated a manufacturing facility in Mexico She is an expert modeler and has extensive expertise in software and computer systems Ms Vohnout has over 20 years of experience in systems engineering quality systems management and business development and management Douglas Goodman Patent Review Roundtable Doug Goodman founded Ridgetop Group Inc in 2000 and has over 30 years experience as an Electronic Engineer including work at Tektronix and Honeywell He earned a BSEE from California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo and an MBA from the University of Portland He has published over 20 papers on instrumentation and control and was a Member of the Tektronix Mr Goodman is a co-founder and President of Opmaxx the firm that developed the first commercially available Analog Built-In Self-Test BIST product line including selfcontained IP for measuring the performance of ADCs PLLs Gain Stages and other mixed signal modules He has extensive experience in low noise instrumentation design stemming from a 14-year stint at Tektronix Inc He was Vice President of Engineering at Analogy Inc an Analog/Mechatronic Simulation Tool firm which after a successful IPO on the NASDAQ became part of Synopsys Inc a large Electronic Design Automation EDA firm At Ridgetop Group Mr Goodman is the Principal Investigator on a number of electronic prognostics and radiation-hardened IC-related projects in addition to his executive duties Justin Judkins is Director of  Research and oversees the research and implementations of electronic prognostics His research interests involve applying sensor array technology to various reasoning engines to provide optimum performance for electronic modules and systems He previously held senior-level engineering positions at Bell Labs and Lucent involving high-reliability telecom transmission He received a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Arizona Mladen Kozak Mladen Kozak is a Design Engineer and Technical Staff Member for Ridgetop Group Inc He is instrumental in eve oping inovative solutions supporting Ridgetop's prognostic and ePHM efforts related to Power Electronics Switching Power Supplies and Electro-Mechanical Actuators His technical background includes circuit design and complex control system simulations He received his BSEE from the University of Arizona and is currently pursuing an MS Ken Harris Ken Harris is the senior technical writer at Ridgetop Group An expert in usability and crosscultural communication he has served as plenary speaker and symposium chair for advanced topics in technical communication and information design Over a 25year career he has become an award-winning writer designer and illustrator with awards ranging from academic contests to juried national and international competitions Mr Harris worked as senior writer technical illustrator and information product designer at Lucent Motorola NCR and Cingular Wireless before moving to Arizona and joining Ridgetop Group He received a BA in English from the University of New Mexico graduating cum laude and with departmental honors He has taught graduate technical writing and graphic design at Georgia Tech and Southern Polytechnic State University and is a senior fellow in the Society for Technical Communication 11 Justin Judkins 


  12 the PL is intended to fulfill, thus many requirements and specifications that would be found in a PL design specification would need to be provided by the specific PL procurement agency. The ORS Phase III standards can be downloaded from http://projects.nrl.navy.mil/busstandards  Communications Interfaces  A key external interface for th e space segment \(bus and PL is RF communications to the ground. This topic investigated standardization for SC command and control \(C&C communications link and the tactical communication link Figure 11 presents a basic high-level view of the RF communications pathways envisioned in the standards Other issues investigated related to both current and future approaches the military is planning for RF communications including, data flow, frequency band definitions modulation techniques, data rates, communication security COMSEC\and basic defi nition of ground interface locations. Given the current maturity of the general military SC C&C network, the presen t SGLS architecture and the expected Unified S-Band \(USB\architecture were established as the standard. Fo r the tactical links, standard UHF was established for LDR application, and the Common Data Link \(CDL\ocol was established as the HDR standard Ground Support Checkout Interface In support of the rapid call-up scenario, standards for interfacing spacecraft bus and the payload, and processing the integrated space vehicle though launch, is one of the unique activities under the IS ET derived ORS system design. The need to develop an approach for this effort in sufficient detail in order to derive requirements that would influence the spacecraft bus design is critical. The approaches developed have design and manufacturing ramification on the bus, such as the ability to install batteries late in the flow, rapid \223built-in-test\224 capabilities periodic checks, and access a nd safety implications Data Interfaces: Bus to Payload and Ground This document defines the data exchange protocols, data transport formats, packet definitions and field definitions for the bus/PL interface. Underlying electrical interface for the bus/PL interface is the HDLC and SpaceWire. The bus/PL interface is defined such that the HDLC interface SpaceWire interface, or both can be used. The bus design will provide support for both interfaces. The PL may choose to implement either one or both. The bus/PL interface is defined to dynamically suppor t either or both interfaces without needing bus reconfiguration \(i.e., FSW changes This document also defines the data exchange protocols data transport and packet template for the space/ground interface. The space to ground interface definition assumes the use of a flight side SGLS transponder integrated with COMSEC slices. The SGLS forward link assumes a flightside Cardholder COMSEC slice. The SGLS return link  Figure 11 Radio Frequency Communications Architecture  


  13 assumes that the SGLS transponder supports both the narrow-band and wide-band inte rfaces. While a return link COMSEC is required, this document assumes that the return link COMSEC does not levy any blocking or packaging constraints for the return link This interface standard was developed as part of the ORS Phase 3 Bus effort. This interface standard was adopted by the ORS Phase 3 Bus and COMMx payload elements. As a result, the TACSAT-4 spacecraft implemented the encl osed interface standards for its bus to payload and space to ground interfaces This document is limited to and currently defines the interfaces between the spacecraf t bus and the payload, and between the spacecraft bus and the ground. Subsequent releases will define the add itional internal interfaces. The depth of detail required for in terface standardization and the need for coverage of additional interfaces is an ongoing assessment effort by ORS s upported standards definition efforts. The intent is to levy interface standards where these standards will lead to efficien t system integration, robust operational capabilities, and improved system flexibility while reducing overall system cost 4  C ONCLUSION  Both the STP-SIV and the ORS ISET efforts have developed standards that provide options for cost-effective capable, flexible spaceflight. Pathfinder SC buses are currently in development for both efforts and will have flight heritage within approximately one year Through the efforts of ISET and the associate prototype teams, the ORS program ha s successfully produced an extensive and well-documented set of ORS bus standards consistent with the ORS concept of operations \(CONOPS and classes of missions. The process used to produce these standards has resulted in technically sound standards which are understood, with buy in from industry. Business factors were also strongly considered to improve the transition of these standards into successful acquisition under a subsequent operational phase While ORS must provide the business foundation, these technical standards are intended to be more broadly useful in order to further volume production, standards acceptance, and the industry business cases. The ORS standards are readily available to Government organizations and payload developers SDTW employs lessons learned from decades of space flight to standardization of STP-SIV design. Flexibility is planned from the beginning and missions are adapted within the range of the SC\222s capability. Development of SC standards requires upfront investment in order to achieve a return on investment once multiple missions have been built and flown. The more PL provi ders who are willing to adopt the STP-SIV interfaces and deve lop experiments applicable to the capabilities of the SC the more successful this program will become R EFERENCES   National Research Council The Role of Small Satellites in NASA and NOAA Earth Observation Programs National Academy Press, Washington D.C., 2000  G F Squibb, \223Meeting the Needs of the Space Technology Industry,\224 ISO Focus, Oct 2005   T. P. Nosek, \223The EOS Aqua A ura Experi ence  Lessons Learned on Design, Integration, and Test of EarthObserving Satellites,\224 AIAA 2004-6060, Space 2004 Conference, Sept. 2004  Mark Barrera, Aerospace Co rp., \223Briefing: Experience from Past Spacecraft Standard ization Efforts,\224 STP-SIV Kickoff Meeting, Ball Aerospace, 27 April 2006 5 D. Bren izer, S. An d r ews, G. Ho g a n   223A Stan d a rd  Satellite Bus for National Security Space Missions,\224 MIT Lincoln Laboratory, March 2005   C Garner, M Hurl ey G. Sandhoo, E. Fi nnegan, P Stadter, B. Kantsiper, \223ORS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS4-2006-3005, AIAA 4 th Responsive Space Conference 2006, Los Ange les, California, April 24-27, 2006   G. Sandhoo, M Johnson, W R a y nor, M  Hurl ey  P Stadter, C. Schein, C. Garner, "ORS/JWS Phase III Bus Standards Status." AIAA-RS5-2007-3002, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007   P St adt e r, G. Sandhoo, M Hurl ey S. Vernon, P Schwartz, B. Williams, "Responsive Spacecraft Bus Implementation for Unique HEO missions Based on Standard Interfaces." AIAA-RS5-2007-4004, AIAA 5 th  Responsive Space Conference Los Angeles, California April 23-26, 2007  Responsiv e Space Mission Requirements and Concept of Operations \(CONOPS\SBS-001 Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-DSB001  Res ponsive Space Launch Vehicle Interface Standards \(LVIS SBS-004, Naval Center for Space Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB002  Responsiv e Space Payload Developers Guide \(PDG Technologies Report NCST-IDS-SB001  Responsiv e Space General Bus Standard GBS\er for Space Technologies Report NCST-S-SB00 


  14 B IOGRAPHY  Capt. Chris Badgett is a System Engineer for the STP-SIV at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. He previously served as developmental engineer at Air Force Research Laboratory Munitions Directorate working on a weapon data link and F-16 small munitions dispenser. He has a B.S.E.E. from University of Tennessee and an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STP-SIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology Mike Hurley is the Spacecraft Development Section Head at NRL in Washington DC. Mr. Hurley has helped shape and implement ORS and TacSat experimentation since 2002. Beginning April 2003, he was Program Manager for the Secretary of Defense\222s \(OSD\ ORS initiative, as well as the Principle Investigator for Office of Naval Research\222s \(ONR\ TacSat Innovative Naval Prototype \(INP program. In 2005 he received the DOD Civilian Meritorious Medal for his work in ORS and TacSat experimentation. He is an engineering graduate of Virginia Tech and holds an M.B.A. from George Mason University  Paul Jaffe is an electrical engineer and the Integration and Testing Section Head at the Naval Center for Space Technology at NRL. He has worked on NASA and DOD space missions, including Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory STEREO\ and TacSat-1. Recently he developed standards and led spacecraft computer hardware development for TacSat-4 as part of the DOD ORS effort He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University Hallie Walden is an Advanced Systems Manager at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. She worked as the STP-SIV Capture Manager and as the Deputy Program Manager from program inception through the Preliminary Design Review. Prior efforts include thermal, fluids, and thermodynamic analyses and design for Ball Aerospace, Lockheed Martin, and AlliedSignal \(now Honeywell\. She holds B.S.M.E and M.S.M.E. degrees from Stanford University  Alan Lopez is currently a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. in Boulder CO since 2005. He received his undergraduate degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois and began working at TRW in Redondo Beach, CA in 1985. After completing his M.S.E.E. degree at the University of Southern California in 1990, he began working at Hughes Space and Communications in El Segundo, CA  Mike Pierce is a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. He is the Chief System Engineer for the STP-SIV program and wrote the STP-SIV PLUG. Prior efforts include system modeling and simulation, mission operations, and mission design working for Spectrum Astro \(now General Dynamics\ and the USAF At Spectrum Astro, he was a key member of Discover II Space Based Infrared System\( SBIRS\ Low and Near Field Infrared Experiment \(NFIRE\ programs. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder  David Kaufmann is Program Manager for STP-SIV at Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp He also served as Program Manager for DARPA Orbital Express NextSat Commodity Spacecraft program. He previously served as a Thermal Engineer at Hughes Space and Communications Co. in El Segundo, CA. He holds a B.S. from Stanford University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in Mechanical Engineering 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


