Active Learning in the Security Classroom   Dino Schweitzer US Air Force Academy dino.schweitzer@usafa.edu David Gibson US Air Force Academy david.gibson@usafa.edu  Mike Collins ITT mike.collins@itt.com    Abstract  Information assurance is a critical topic in undergraduate education and has received a lot of attention in recent literature.  At the United States Air Force Academy we have taught multiple security courses for several years and have tried different 
approaches to make the material interesting and meaningful to the students.   One approach that has proven effective is the ap plication of active learning techniques.  We have developed interactive visualization tools for in-class use, designed handson laboratories, created an inter-school assessment competition, and employed active learning activities in the classroom.  All of these techniques are designed to engage the student in the learning process; to develop a deeper understanding of security concepts; and to act as a motivational tool This paper will describe the different tools and techniques used and how they fit into an active 
learning approach.  We will present our experience with using the tools, thei r effectiveness, and student reactions.  Finally, we will describe our future plans for the security courses    1. Introduction   There has been a great deal of emphasis over the past decade on the importance of information security in higher education. This emphasis is a result of an increased awareness of security issues and vulnerabilities, expanded resources for security research, an increasing number of highly publicized attacks, and an increasing awareness of computer 
related legal issues.  Along with this increased awareness comes the demand for more effective means to teach the fundamental concepts of security  The application of active learning techniques is one means of motivating and engaging students in the learning process.  In its simplest form, active learning has been described as involving students in the classroom in activities other than listening that are meaningful and make them think about what they are doing T h is paper w ill d e scribe m eans th a t ou r 
institution has taken to incorporate active learning into the security curriculum  Many institutions have made great strides in developing active Information Assurance curriculum at all levels. Purdue s Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security CERIAS\n particular, has even produced lesson plans and other materials for K-12 education. Every one of their lessons for the K-12 audience is based on some form of active learning.  At the collegiate level some of the most highly noted methods include 
regional and national level cyber defense and offense competitions. At our school, we have incorporated the preparation for such exercises as part of a course in order to allow students to actively reinforce the core security education objectives that they are expected to meet. MIT offers a free security camp as one means of providing awareness and education to the general public. The camp is very similar in venue to that of a conference or workshop and the degree of active learning will likely vary as it does from conference to conference  Institutions also fuel interest and motivation by 
involving students in research projects. While research clearly provides a student with hands-on active learning, such projects at the undergraduate level require faculty supervision and focus in order to ensure security concepts are learned beyond the research skills acquired  All of these practices speak to the importance of keeping the target audience and the educational objectives at the forefront of the curriculum Information assurance education offers unique challenges to instructors from this perspective including the multi-disciplinary nature of the subject 
and the draw of mass appeal from movies, novels and spy stories which may include preconceived notions of security concepts. At a senior undergraduate level, critical and skeptical thinking are often key over-arching objectives. In security education, it can be challenging to enable students to be able to evaluate the strength and weaknesses of a Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3 2009 U.S. Government Work Not Protected by U.S. Copyright 


security system if all they are interested in is a checklist on how to configure a system or use a tool  The Department of Computer Science at the Air Force Academy has been teaching Information Assurance since 1996.  Over the past 12 years, it has developed a variety of IA curriculum, tried numerous approaches to teaching specific concepts, developed IA labs for education, and participated in Information Assurance competitions.  In 2005, our institution pursued and was recognized as one of only two undergraduate-only institutions to achieve the status of a Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education  This paper will relate some of our lessons learned and some of our current successes in focusing on critical thinking and fundamental security concepts through active learning techniques.  This paper first describes recent advances in education based on active learning and recent studies related to active learning.  We will then show how these concepts have been applied in the context of information assurance education at our institution with specific emphasis on techniques targeting more complex and abstract security concepts. We end by summarizing our experience and ideas for future investigation  2. Active learning  The term active learning was popularized in the 1990s to refer to teaching techniques which seek to actively engage students in the learning process in the classroom ny ed u cators adv o cate activ e  learning techniques as contrasted to traditional lecture-based teaching in which the primary student role in the classroom is passive listening.  Ideally active learning techniques supplement rather than replace lecturing  Examples of active learning techniques include student discussions, student presentations, in-class exercises, student role playing, and game-based learning.  Paulson provides a list of 29 active learning techniques which can be applied to classrooms for any academic discipline   2.1 Advantages of active learning   Advocates of active learning approaches cite several advantages of using active learning techniques in the classroom.  One advantage of welldesigned active learning activities is that they may be more motivational to students and thus hold student attention longer than lecturing alone W h en u s ed  at periodic intervals during a lecture, short active learning activities may also be useful in breaking up the lecture and regaining lost student attention  Because many active learning techniques require students to solve problems and reflect upon what they have done, these techniques may lead to a deeper level of student understanding and better retention of the concepts being taught.  Finally, active learning techniques are likely to be well-suited to kinesthetic learners who are most effective at learning by doing as opposed to learning by listening  Prince also points out that assessing the benefits of active learning in general is very diff   Still, a number of studies conclude that the use of active learning techniques increases student learning and retention  2.2 Objections to active learning   Despite the cited benefits of active learning, not all faculty members are eager to introduce active leaning techniques into their instruction.  First incorporating active learning activities into classroom teaching represents a change to how many instructors themselves learned.  If listening attentively to the instructor and taking notes while in class worked well for me, why should that not work well for my students  As with any newly adopted technique, there is an inherent risk.  An active learning activity may fail to adequately engage student interest or foster learning of the desired concepts.  Planning, and preparing active learning activities takes time which may be a significant addition to normal lecture preparation Also, developing or purchasing materials in support of active learning activities may require additional resources.  Finally, spending valuable class time on active learning activities is likely to reduce the number of topics that can be covered during a scheduled class time  2.3 Overcoming objections to active learning   All of these potential objections to active learning are easily overcome as long as the instructor is willing to try new strategies in an effort to increase student learning.  Most of today s students have grown up actively engaged with video games, cell phones, and the internet.  Active engagement is a familiar and preferred way of learning for many of them  Instructors seldom need to develop active learning activities from scratch since countless examples are easily available on the internet and in Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


educational literature for a wide variety of disciplines.  While finding an appropriate active learning activity and adopting it to a specific course will take time, if the activity is successful, that time should be amortized over many uses  Dedicating class time to active learning activities at the expense of covering additional content can be a difficult choice.  The justification for doing so clearly depends on the effectiveness of the activity relative to the alternative, usually lecturing.  For well-planned and executed activities, the time required can be kept relatively short.  Some active learning advocates recommend keeping these activates as short as a few minutes [7  H o w e ve r   w i t h se t up a n d a c t i v i t yspecific instruction, some active learning activities may require substantial class time.  In that case, the depth of learning and retention fostered by the active learning activity must exceed the benefits of delivering additional content in the classroom  In the next section we present our experiences applying active learning techniques in computer security courses  3. Applying active learning in security   Students in our security courses enjoy classroom discussions about computer viruses, spreading worms, malicious attacks, and vulnerabilities.  They are intrigued by popular press articles regarding privacy issues, denial of service attacks, and hacker activities.  However, a large part of security education is understanding the concepts and theory behind these more visible end results.  Students become less excited in the classroom when formally proving theorems about safety or studying an abstract formal model of access control.  Instructors have reportedly heard students groan when told they would be reviewing Turing machines in preparation for formal reasoning about security provability Relegating these important topics to dry lecture or long readings can de-motivate students resulting in lower levels of understanding and knowledge retention  To maintain student interest in security concepts while covering more complex topics, our institution has made a concerted effort to incorporate motivational active learning techniques in our security classrooms.  An example of a traditional active learning type activity can be found in our Information Warfare class.   In an introductory lecture on threats and vulnerabilities, combination padlocks are passed out and students are asked to attempt to open them.  A discussion follows as to how secure the padlock needs to be, what is the threat, and what is the risk \(e.g., what is the impact if it is compromised?\he instructor concludes the discussion by demonstrating a method for opening the padlock without the combination.  This activity generates a lot of interest and discussion the key ideas behind active learning.  In addition to the more traditional active learning approaches, such as role playing and classroom activities, we have developed a series of interactive classroom visualizations participated in a cyber-defense competition and an inter-school vulnerability assessment exercise, and created hands-on laboratory exercises to allow students to experiment with and experience security tools and practices in an isolated environment.  Each of these activities will be further described in the following sections  3.1 Interactive classroom visualizations   Interactive classroom visualizations \(ICV s lecture support tools designed to provide a visual demonstration of a concept or algorithm Visualizations have a long history in computer science with several examples in algorithms, data structures, graph theory, computer graphics, automata theory, and programming languages.  Many examples abound on the web with varying levels of interactivity, formats, and complexity  At our institution, security ICV s have been designed specifically with active learning in mind That is, they are designed for use in the classroom not as standalone tutorials. Table 1 shows the specific ICV s that have been developed for security concepts.  A complete description of the individual tools is not practical here, further information on specific tools can be found in the literature [5,8,9,10    Table 1. Security ICV s  ICV   Description  GRASP security protocol visualization  demonstrating handshaking and  attacks Ciphers interactive applets for seven  different cipher algorithms  showing how they work  characteristics, and attacks PKIVis game-like environment for  demonstrating how PKI works Take-Grant tool for demonstrating a formal    access control model and its  limitations HRUVis tool for demonstrating the Harrison Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


   Ruzzo, Ullman access control    model, and using it to prove the  undecidability of safety CodeBlue a version of Core War with small    programs in memory battling each    other demonstrating  offensive    strategies and relocatable code  Designing ICV s for use in the classroom is different than designing visualizations for standalone use or independent study.  Some of these design characteristics include   High level of interactivity   Easily understood abstraction   Limited number of concepts   Relevance to lecture topic   Robust user interface  Interactivity is critical for demonstrating causeeffect relationships.  Rather than simply visually demonstrating a concept, it is important in active learning for the student to be able to control the environment by setting parameters, specify input data values, and stepwise control the action of the ICV By interacting with the ICV, the student participates in the demonstration and is not just an observer.  An example of such interaction as part of a cipher visualization tool is shown in Figure 1.  In addition to being able to set the input plaintext and key information, the student has widgets, such as the slider bar, that interactively shows changing letter frequencies and allow the student to break the cipher    Figure 1. Interactive cipher visualization tool   Another design consideration is level of abstraction.  Abstraction is an inherent part of any visualization.  An example of an abstraction in security is representing letter digraph distributions in encrypted text with a colored 2-D heat map.  When designing ICV s for classroom use, it is important that such abstractions be quick to comprehend and easy to use.  An example of a simple abstraction is the Take-Grant graph-based access control ICV shown in Figure 2.  The model is a simple graph of objects and subjects connected with rights.  Students interact with the graph to set up the rights system and create commands to prove properties about the model.  They are able to quickly understand the representations and actions.  Consistency in abstract representation is also important when presenting different tools with similar concepts.  For example several cipher applets have the same general layout as shown in Figure 1; all follow a similar look and feel for encryption, decryption, and cipher characteristics    Figure 2. Take-Grant ICV   Another feature that is important when designing ICV s is to limit the number of concepts being demonstrated.  Active learning activities are intended to be short in duration to supplement lectures, not replace them.  One approach to keep the focus on a narrow concept is to use tabs, each tab focusing on a separate concept, such as the cipher ICV shown in Figure 1.  Different tabs can be shown at different points in the lecture to describe features and/or vulnerabilities of the cipher being studied  Relevancy is always important in lectures, but especially when presenting interactive activities There is always a danger that highly interactive visualizations are seen as more gee whiz than meaningful to the lesson if the concept being demonstrated is not clear or the interaction is trivial While there may be some benefit in providing a break from straight lecture, activities that are seen as trivial or irrelevant waste valuable class time and can lead to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


student disinterest.  To ensure our security ICV s are relevant we carefully select which concepts to represent based on topics that are difficult to grasp benefit from a visual representation, or can be easily grouped together with similar concepts  A final design consideration is to ensure a robust user interface.  When used in the classroom, the instructor may be standing at a podium or trying to use the keyboard under less than ideal conditions Minimizing typing and making extensive use of GUI widgets help.  For tools that require text commands such as the protocol language shown in Figure 3, the capability to save and restore data files is incorporated allowing the instructor to pre-build demonstrations.  It is also important to make sure that any erroneous input is handled gracefully.  This is to avoid frustration by the student when they are using the tool, and to avoid instructor embarrassment when demonstrating the ICV in front of the class ICV s are designed for use in the classroom as an active learning activity.  Typically, the instructor demonstrates the tool as part of introducing the concept and then lets the students use the tool in the class on their laptops, in front of the class, or as an out-of-class assignment.  A common way of using the tools is to play what-if games in the class where the instructor sets up a scenario and asks the students to predict what will happen, or asks the students to come up with a scenario to cause a certain event.  An example is the protocol visualization tool, GRASP shown in Figure 3.  Students can be asked how an eavesdropper, Eve, can attack the protocol using a man-in-the-middle attack, and how to modify the protocol to counteract the attack    Figure 3. Security protocol visualization tool  3.2 Security competitions  ICV s provide one form of active learning activity for the classroom that is short, focused, and highly interactive.  Another form of activity to engage students in security concepts is to make use of competitive type activities such as Capture the Flag events.  While shortened forms of these can be done in the classroom or lab, a more common approach is to dedicate a day, or several days, to participating in a competition with other institutions.  These types of competitions can be highly motivational to students and reinforce critical concepts in a real-world type environment  Traditional cyber competitions, such as the UCSB international event, involve teams composed of individual schools employing both offensive and defensive strategies to attack and defend networks The Cyber Defense Exercise, or CDX, is a competition between the service academies that focuses on network defense [1    T h e N a t i o na l  Security Agency serves as the red team attacking the networks.  A version of CDX has been created to broaden participation by more schools in an intercollegiate competition   These types of competitions can engage students in an active learning manner.  However, care must be taken to ensure that the focus is on the underlying concepts, and not simply the use of tools or strictly the competitive nature of the events.  To address these concerns, we developed a regional assessment competition with other schools in our area known as CANVAS, the Computer and Network Vulnerability Assessment Simulation [4 NV AS is u n iq u e  from other security competitions in its inclusion of all experience levels, team makeup, and emphasis on analysis and communication  To help maximize participation by students at all levels of experience, there is no minimum experience required to participate.  Students with several security classes participate along with students having had no classes, but an interest in the topic.  Some of the students have extensive network and system administrative experience and have participated in other competitions; others are only experienced as users on their own machine.  When students sign up to participate in the day-long event, they self-rate their experience level  To compensate for the wide variety in student experiences, and to mitigate any overcompetitiveness associated with the event, teams are not comprised of students from individual schools but rather teams are formed on the fly from a mixture of schools and experience levels.  Ideally each team has no more than a single student from a Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


given institution.  This approach serves several purposes.  It eliminates the lengthy preparation time that some competitions encourage while individual students may practice with the allowable toolset before the competition, there is no extensive strategy planning or team practicing.  This approach to team structure also adds an interesting component to the competition; that of learning to work with peers that you have never met before and may have very different skills and backgrounds than you.  While initially a little intimidating for some, the social aspect of meeting and working with other students becomes a positive aspect of the event.  Finally, this method of forming teams significantly reduces the pressure to win by a given school.  While each team wants to outdo the other teams, there is no school pride or reputation to uphold.  This allows students to participate in a more relaxed manner and learn from their peers  The final distinction between CANVAS and other competitive events is the way in which results are conveyed and tallied for a final score.  In other competitions, points are awarded for captured flags for successfully attacking an opponent, or for successfully defending against an attack.  The premise in CANVAS is that each team is evaluating a contrived system for vulnerabilities using standard offensive tools.  The goal is not to attack the system but to discover the vulnerabilities and report them along with an analysis of the potential consequences of the vulnerability, and a recommended fix.  Some flags are placed in the system so students know they are on the right track, but simply collecting flags is not the emphasis.  At the end of the exercise, teams are given a period of time to write up their discoveries in a report format to submit to the CEO and CTO of the fictitious company.  Faculty members from the participating schools read each of the reports and rank order them based on completeness, technical correctness, and the quality of the analysis and recommendations  We have successfully held the CANVAS exercise for three offerings.  Participation has been around 40 students from five to seven regional undergraduate institutions.  Participant surveys have been highly positive on the value of the experience and over 94% of participating students would like to do it again and/or would recommend it to others Students enjoy using the offensive tools, learning how to evaluate a system, and working with other students in a social atmosphere.  They are less excited about writing up their results for final evaluation.  Students give mixed reaction to the team composition strategy with some students saying they enjoy learning from their peers, while others would prefer to be teamed with their classmates Participating faculty agree that the team make-up forces peer-level interaction and teamwork that students will find valuable in a future real-world situation.  Faculty also agree on the value of the final report and getting students to see the bigger picture beyond just hacking to compromise a system  3.2 Hands-on laboratory exercises   The final active learning activity that we have incorporated in our security courses is an emphasis on hands-on laboratory and project exercises.  Many security programs use laboratory exercises as a motivational means to give students hands-on experience with current tools and first-hand practice with different techniques.  While these exercises engage students in an active learning way, it is important to ensure the focus is on the underlying concepts and not just the tools.  For example, a laboratory exercise in password cracking can be accomplished as simply running a software tool However, a greater education benefit is achieved if the student understands how the tool works, what its capabilities and limitations are, and how to design systems and passwords policies that would defeat the tool.  Having students perform an analysis on the size of password space, the theoretical amount of time needed to search the space, and proposing alternative password schemes can provide a much deeper understanding of the concepts involved  In addition to laboratory exercises, our Information Warfare course uses hands-on final projects as a means to engage students more fully in an active learning way.  For the project, the student selects a security topic of interest, such as graphical passwords, steganography, or digital camera forensics.  Part of the project is the necessary background work to understand the issue, approaches that others have taken, and a proposed approach for study.  Rather than simply being a research paper each project must include some implementation associated with the topic for analysis.  For example, a steganography project may include a tool for detecting the presence of it in an image.  Another example is the creation of gummy bear fingers to try and defeat a fingerprint scanner.  The major emphasis in the project is not the implementation itself, but rather the analysis of the implementation For example, how successful is the steganography detector, what types of images does it not work well on, and why.  The implementation phase of the project engages the students while the analysis Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


portion requires them to examine the underlying concepts  4. Our experience / future plans   It is difficult to perform a formal evaluation on the effects of these active learning approaches given the small number of classes and limited number of students per class.  We have attempted to quantify some of the effects of the various ICV s with mixed results.  In our large freshman course, for example we used the PKI visualization tool in some sections but not others.  There was no measurable improvement in performance on PKI related questions on the exams.  In our Information Warfare class, we evaluated the effect of the formal model tools based on class performance on exams and found students performed better when they had experience with the tool.  A related informal feedback from the instructor was that he was able to reduce class time on the concepts as students seemed to get it  quicker.  Student responses on course surveys are almost always positive about the tools  Evaluation of the effectiveness of the security competitions comes primarily from participant surveys.  Students overwhelmingly rate them as highly enjoyable, informative, and worthwhile Surveys and student reactions to hands-on laboratories and projects are similarly popular and enjoyed by the students.  Quantifying the educational benefit in terms of improved learning is difficult and has not been attempted  Perhaps the greatest testament to these approaches is the motivational aspect.  Effective use of ICV s in the classroom has an energizing effect, is seen as a fun activity, and engages students in the topic at hand.  At competitions, students get excited in the discovery process and interacting with others In hands-on laboratories, students get a sense of accomplishment in successfully breaking something or achieving some specific goal.  In all three cases students are active participants in the learning process and not simply passive vessels absorbing the wisdom of their professors  In the future, we plan on continuing our active learning approach in the security curriculum Additional ICV s are in the planning stages, and we are continually refining existing ones based on our experience and feedback from others.  We are planning on continuing the CANVAS exercise and expanding participation with more schools.  Minor adjustments to the exercise are planned based on participant suggestions.  Similarly, we will continue to use hands-on exercises and projects in our security courses.  One area that we are investigating for improvement is the use of virtualization to expand the exercises while reducing actual hardware requirements.  Another improvement we are implementing for the hands-on project is to have more pre-defined projects for students to select from.  We found that at the undergraduate level many students did not have a good sense of the scope and level of difficulty of self-selected projects and they spent an inordinate amount of time going in nonproductive directions.  Having better defined projects up front will allow them to focus on the implementation and analysis phases of the project  Overall, our experience is that active learning is an effective way to motivate students and engage them in the learning process.  Applying active learning techniques to security can improve student education in this critical field  5. References   A u gu st i n e T  an d Do d g e R   Cyber defense exercise meeting learning objectives thru competition in Proceedings from the Tenth Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education, June 2006  2 Be g e l, A G a rc ia D a nd W o lfm a n, S Kinesthetic learning in the classroom In Proceedings of the 35th SIGCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education, SIGCSE '04. pp. 183-184   Bon w e l l  C  and E i s on  J   Active learning: creating excitement in the classroom.  ASHE-ERIC Higher Education Report 1, 1991  4 Col lins  M Sc hw e itz e r D a nd Ma s s e y D   CANVAS: a regional assessment exercise for teaching security concepts in Proceedings from the 12th Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education June 2008  5 Ebe l ing  D  a nd Sa ntos  R Public key infrastructure visualization  J. Comput. Small Coll. October 2007  6  P a uls on D  a n d Fa us t, J    Active learning in the college classroom Journal on Excellence in College Teaching  vol. 9 \(2\, pp. 3-24, 1998   7  Prince, M Does active learning work? A review of the research Journal of Engineering Education, 93:3 pp. 223-231, 2004   8 Sc hw e itz e r D  a nd Ba ird L  T he de s i g n a nd us e of  interactive visualization applets for teaching ciphers Proceedings of the 7th IEEE Workshop on Information Assurance, June 2006  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


9 Sc hw e itz e r D Ba ird L Coll i ns M Brow n W  Sherman M., "GRASP: A visualization tool for teaching security protocols," Proceedings of the 10th Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education, June 2006  10 hw e itz e r D Colli ns M  Ba ird L  A  v i s u a l  approach to teaching formal access models in security Proceedings of the 11th Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education, June 2007  11 W h ite G  a n d Dodg e  R  The national collegiate cyber defense competition in Proceedings of the Tenth Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education June, 2006   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  9 University and an M.S. in Geological Sciences from the University of Southern California Damhnait Gleeson is a Ph.D candidate in the Department of Geological Sciences at the University of Colorado at Boulder currently carrying out research at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Her research explores the potential for life in icy, sulfur-rich environments such as may exist at Jupiter's moon Europa, and investigates the detectability of such life by the study of analogous terrestrial field sites. She is co-advised by Alexis Templeton at the University of Colorado and Bob Pappalardo at the Jet Propulsion Lab Dr. Rebecca Casta\361o is an Assistant Manager of the Instruments Software and Science Data Systems section at JPL. She received her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois with her dissertation in the area of computer vision. Dr Casta\361o has been advancing the state of the art in onboard science methods for the past five years and has been lead author on numerous publications in this field. From 1999 \226 2001 Dr Casta\361o served as the application lead for phenomenological computational field geology efforts in the MLS Group. She is the technology lead for science data processing for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment on the New Millennium Program\222s ST6 project. Dr. Casta\361o is also the Team Lead of the Onboard Autonomous Science Investigation System \(OASIS\ project and the subtask lead for Data Analysis on the automated Multirover Integrated Science Understanding System \(MISUS\. Her research interests include machine learning, computer vision, and pattern recognition Dr. Steve Chien is a Principal Computer Scientist in the Mission Planning and Executi on Section at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and Adjunct Associate Professor with the Department of Computer Science of the University of Southern California. He holds a B.S. with Highest Honors in Computer Science, with minors in Mathematics and Economics, M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science all from the University of Illinois. Dr. Chien is a recipient of the JPL Lew Allen Award for Excellence and two NASA Exceptional Achievement Medals for his work in research and development of planning and scheduling systems for NASA. He is the Principal Investigator for the Autonomous Sciencecraft Experiment, a co-winner of the 2005 NASA Software of the Year Award Dr. Carla E. Brodley is a professor in the Department of Computer Science at Tufts University. She received her Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Massachusetts, at Amherst in 1994 From 1994-2004, she was on the faculty of the School of Electrical Engineering at Purdue University West Lafayette, Indiana. Professor Brodley's research interests include machine learning knowledge discovery in databases and computer security In 2004-2005 she was a member of the Defense Science Study Group. In 2001 she served as program co-chair for the International Conference on Machine Learning \(ICML and in 2004, she served as the general chair for ICML Currently she is on the editorial board of the Journal for Machine Learning Research and an associate editor on the Machine Learning Journal. She is a member of the Computing Research Association's Committee on the Status of Women in Computing Research \(CRA-W  


Development K. Kendall, K. Lyytinen, and J. DeGross Editors. 1992, North-Holland: Amsterdam. pp. 241-270 6 n e r K R an d C K P r a h alad  A Resou rce-b ased  Theory of the Firm: Knowledge Versus Opportunism Organization Science, 1996. 7\(5\: pp. 477-501 7 op er D J  et al  S ed ime n tation an d Tran sfo rmation in Organizational Change: The Case of Canadian Law FirmsŽ, Organization Studies, 1996. 17\(4\. 623-647  a ve npor t, T.H a nd L. Pr u s a k Worki ng k now le dge   1998, Boston: Harvard Business School Press 9 an ctis G and M S  P o o l e Cap t u ring t h e  Complexity in Advanced Technology Use: Adaptive Structuration TheoryŽ, Organization Science, 1994. 5\(2 pp. 121-147  ohe rty  N  F a nd G  D o ig A n A n a l ys is of the  Anticipated Cultural Impacts of the Implementation of Data WarehousesŽ, IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 2003. 50\(1\. 78-88  Eis e nha rd t, K  M  B uild in g The orie s fr om Ca s e Stu dy  ResearchŽ, Academy of Management Review, 1989. 14\(4 pp. 532-550  a ll upe B  K n o w l e d g e m a na ge m e nt s y s t e m s   surveying the landscapeŽ, International Journal of Management Reviews, 2001. 3\(1\: pp. 61-77  i dde ns  A T h e C ons t i t utio n of S o c i e t y 19 84  Berkeley: University of California Press  r a n t, R  M  T ow a r d a K now le d g e ba s e d The or y o f  the FirmŽ, Strategic Management Journal, 1996. 17: pp 109-122  r a y P.H  T he im pa c t of know le dge re pos i t orie s o n  power and control in the workplaceŽ, Information Technology & People, 2001. 14\(4\. 368-384  G r e e n w o od, R  C  R  H i n i n g s  a nd J  B r ow n T he P 2  Form of Strategic Management: Corporate Practices in the Professional PartnershipŽ, Academy of Management Journal, 1990. 33: pp. 725-755  e dl un d, G  A m ode l of k now le d g e m a n a g e m e nt a n d  the N-form corporationŽ, Strategic Management Journal 1994. 15: pp. 73-90 18 Jasp erson  J   et al   Rev ie w: P o wer and I n fo rmation Technology Research: A Metatriangulation ReviewŽ, MIS Quarterly, 2002. 26\(4\ pp. 397-459  lin g, R Soc ia l a n a l ys e s of c o m putin g: the ore tic a l  perspectives in recent empirical researchŽ, Computing Surveys, 1980. 12: pp. 61-110  c k e n z i e  K V irtu a l Positio ns a nd Powe r   Management Science, 1986. 32\(5\: pp. 622-643  rk us, M.L  P owe r, Politic s, a n d MIS  ImplementationŽ, Communications of the ACM, 1983 26\(6\p. 430-444  rk us M.L. a n d D  R obe y   I nform a tion Te c h nol og y  and Organizational Change: Causal Structure in Theory and ResearchŽ, Management Science, 1988. 34\(5\ pp. 583-598  r lik ow s k i  W I nte gra t e d Inform a tion E n v i ro nm e n t  or Matrix of Control? The Contradictory Implications of Information TechnologyŽ, Accounting, Management Information Technology, 1991. 1: pp. 9-42  r li kow s k i, W  U s i n g Te c hnol og y a n d C ons tit uti ng  Structures: A Practice Lens for Studying Technology in OrganizationsŽ, Organization Science, 2000. 11\(4\ pp. 404428  r lik ow s k i, W  a nd D  C. G a s h  T e c hnolo gic a l  Frames: Making Sense of Information Technology in OrganizationsŽ, ACM Transactions Information Systems 1994. 2: pp. 174-207 26 Orli k o w s k i W  and  C S  Iaco no  Research  Commentary: Desperately Seeking the "IT" in IT Research A Call to Theorize the IT ArtifactŽ, Information Systems Research 2001. 12\(2\: pp. 121-134  r l i k o w s ki W. a n d D  R obe y I nf orm a tio n  Technololgy and the Structuring of Organizations Information Systems Research, 1991. 2\(2\pp. 143-169  s t e r loh  M. a nd B.S  Fre y  M otiva ti on, K n ow le d g e  Transfer, and Organizational FormsŽ, Organization Science 2000. 11\(5\: pp. 538-550 29  P each ey  T  D J Hall an d  C Ceg ielsk i  Kn o w ledg e  Management and the Leading Information Systems Journals: An Analysis of Trends and Gaps in Published ResearchŽ, International Journal of Knowledge Management, 2005. 1\(3\: pp. 55-69  o well, W., Hy b ri d Or ganizational A rrangements New Form of Transitional Development?Ž, California Management Review, 1987. 30\(1\. 67-87  o be y, D  a nd A  A z e v e d o  C ultura l A n a l ys is  of the  Organizational Consequences of Information Technology Accounting, Management & Information Technology, 1994 4\(1\. 23-37  obe y, D  a n d M.-C  B o ud re a u  A c c ounti ng for the  Contradictory Organizational Consequences of Information Technology: Theoretical Directions and Methodological ImplicationsŽ, Information Systems Research, 1999. 10\(2 pp. 167-185  u g g le s  R T he Sta te  o f the N o ti on: K now le d g e  Management in PracticeŽ, California Management Review 1998. 40\(3\: pp. 80-89  hultz e  U  a nd D  E  Le id ne r S tu dyi ng K now le d g e  Management in Information Systems Research: Discourses and Theoretical Assumptions MIS Quarterly, 2002. 26\(3 pp. 213-242 35  S c h u l tze U and W   Orlik o w sk i  A P r actice Perspective on Technology-Mediated Network Relations The Use of Internet-Based Self-Serve Technologies Information Systems Research, 2004. 15\(1\p. 87-106 36 S e ng e, P  M T h e F i fth Discip lin e. 19 90 New Yo rk   Currency Doubleday  Ste in E.W a n d V  Zw a s s   A c t ua liz ing O r ga niz a tio na l  Memory with Information SystemsŽ, Information Systems Research, 1995. 6\(2\: pp. 85-117 38 To f f l er  A  Th e Ad ap t i v e Co r p or at i o n 19 85  New York: McGraw-Hill  o ffle r A  P o w e rs hift K now le d g e  We a lth a n d  Violence at the Edge of the 21st Century. 1990, New York Bantam 40 Yates J an d J Van  M aan en  I n fo rmation T echn o l o gy and Organizational Transformation - History, Rhetoric, and Practice. 2001, Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications Inc  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11  Impact \226 Strauss\222s Derivative of Moore The impact of such a simple statement is at the same time beautiful and difficult to realize.  What this is telling the designer is that 223For any technology selected, mass and power of any data recorder design will remain relatively constant even as mission data demands increase from one generation to the next.\224  What it Means For all intents and purposes, the \223fit\224 of the SSR can remain relatively constant throughout the years \226 that as the required capacity doubles, the media meets the challenge at the same pace.  Therefore, assuming a recorder of Size X  bits today and performing mass and volume predictions on that design, moving that recorder ahead several generations will result in the same mass and volume, even though the capacity of the data recorder increases exponentially Technology Comparison Table 2 is a compendium of known, published technologies in use or in development today enabling a comparison of any one technology listed for specific attributes against another.  In this stoplight chart, red indicates disfavorable attributes, green equals favorable, and yellow indicates cautionary acceptance.  It can be easily seen that in terms of memory technology for space, the selection is limited \226 especially so when it comes to non-volatile radiation hardened devices Part II 6  H IGH C APACITY S OLID S TATE R ECORDER  The impetus of this paper was the assignment to predict mass, power, volume, and cost for multi-terabit data recorders of the capacities shown in Table 3 with deliveries occurring in the year given [2   Table 3 - Data Recorder Capacity Requirements YEAR DATA CAPACITY 2010 2.88 Tb 2020 30 Tb 2030 130 Tb  This part of the paper presents a design of a 130 Tb NonVolatile data recorder which could be built for delivery in the year 2030, based on the information presented in Part I In developing the SSR design, technology selection was limited to the two technologies examined in detail in Part I Flash and NROM\nd a technology freeze date of 36 months in advance of delivery was assumed  SSR \226 Flash & NROM Based designs Table 4 - ITRS predicted device capacity \(Gb for three technologies Year 2015 2018 2021 2025 Technology CRAM 0.032 0.064 0.064 0.128 NROM 4 8 16 32 Flash 64 128 256 512  In this particular case, the year 2025 is selected as the freeze date and appropriate device capacity is used.  The ITRS is predicting that by the year 20 25, CRAM-based devices will have a capacity of 128 Mbit per die; NROM will have 32 Gb per die. Flash will be available at 512 Gb per die [9 Table  5 highlights the number of die necessary of three discussed technologies to achi eve a recorder of specified capacity in the timeframe given Table 5 - Minimum Device Count by Technology to achieve a Data Recorder of Specified Capacity in the Year shown.  \(Example, a 30 Tb recorder being designed in the year 2020 would require 468,750 CRAM devices or 1,875 NROM devices, or 118 Flash devices  Therefore, a 130 Tb data recorder designed using devices predicted available in the year 2030, would require the following number of devices \226 not including any additional devices used for Error Detection and Correction \(EDAC\ or sparing and word control 200  CRAM: > 1 million devices Year Recorder Capacity CRAM 4Mb NROM 1Gb Flash 16Gb 720,000 2,880 180 64Mb 16Gb 256Gb 468,750 1,875 118 128Mb 32Gb 512Gb 1.02E+06 4,063 254 Required Not Reqiured Required EDAC Technology / Device Capacity /Chip Count 2010 2020 2030 2.88 Tb 30 Tb 130 Tb 


 12  200  NROM: approx 4060 devices 200  Flash: approx 256 devices By examination, it can be easily seen that developing a high capacity data recorder as pr oposed using CRAM technology is impractical Error Detection and Correction Codes  All technologies are subject to lo ss of information, be they the loss of a single bit or the loss of an entire chip, the inclusion of Error Detection and Correction is an appropriate action by any system designer Just by using EDAC, there is an associated bit-penalty ranging from a few percentile to over 25 per cent   The exact selection of most-appropriat e Error Correction codes is highly dependent upon error phenomena not only for each  rt ain aspects of the exact part being considered as well as the environment to be encountered [2  25  F o r t h e reco rde r  de scri be d bel o w a Reed-Solomon code was selected.  It is important to note that this may not be the prime candidate, but was chosen for known characteristics Selection of a more appropri ate EDAC code [2 w oul d  most assuredly, bring about a reduction in recorder mass and power One final, important, distinction between the two prime technologies is required The NROM devices analyzed for this paper have built-in an incredibly powerful error detection and correction machine, capable of detecting four bits in error in a single word, and correcting three bits per word [10  W i t h th is m e th od t h e Bit Error Rate is calculated by the manufacturer to be less than 1.18E 19  errors/bit-day \226 equivalent to 3 unrecoverable bit errors every 550 years for the entire recorder; therefore, the package numbers presented here do not include extra devices required for EDAC other than that provided by the chip itself Table 6 - HC-SSR Basic Features 200  Redundant SpaceWire interfaces 200  Redundant Power Converters 200  Redundant Controllers/Supervisors 200  Multi-plane Non-volatile storage 200  Error detection and correction 200  Device isolation to the EDAC Word  Figure 18 - HC-SSR Conceptual Block Diagram 


 13  7  H IGH C APACITY SSR  D ESCRIPTION  Block Diagram  A block diagram of a recorder meeting all requirements listed in Table 6 is shown as Figure 18.  The recorder features cross-coupled SpaceWire interfaces as well as redundancy down to the memory plane Cross-coupled controllers w ith shared memory ensure operation without the need to re-build memory allocation tables should a fault occur Recorder Summary  Using conservative packaging techniques, two recorder designs were developed: one using Flash memory and the other using NROM.  A summary of their characteristics is provided in the tables below.  A more detailed discussion of design and implementation follows Board Design  Figure 19 - One side of 8Tb Memory Slice using NROM Technology The NROM-based solution is presented as Figure 19.  In the figure, nearly two hundred 2-Gbit NROM devices are installed on each face of the 9U card.  \(The whitespace is preserved in this example for passive components and design margin.\e time of this writing, the availability of chip-stacked NROM devices was uncertain and omitted from the trade space Design of a Flash-based memory card would be of similar ilk.  Device density would permit the use of a 6U card Compare the number of devices required for each design as given in Tables 7 and 8 Table 7 - NROM-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 9U  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  14 ea Size, 9U 6  Approx 40 x 33 x 30 cm \(h, w, d Mass  10 kg 7  Power  30 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel Space Wire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(Sparing extra Devices  4060 32 Gb die    6 IEEE 1101.1-1998 7 Assumes worst case devices are operable to expected regime without shielding 


 14  Table 8 - Flash-based HC-SSR Characteristics ITEM  Quantity  Units  Size, 6U  Approx 28 x12.7 x 25 cm \(h, w, d Number of PWBs \(slices  4 ea Mass  3.5 kg  Power  6 W, \(not incl uncertainty Interface  Dual Channel SpaceWire  Capacity  129.6 Tb \(EDAC Sparing extra Devices  254 512 Gb \(not incl EDAC  Controller Board  Figure 20 - Controller Card Layout \(Violet = Shared Memory  Figure 20 shows one of many possible methods of design for an IO controller slice.  The IO controller slice provides redundant SpaceWire interfaces and redundant interfaces to the backplane.  Alt hough there are two controllers shown there is, in this concept, a single set of Shared Memory which is common between both controllers One of the main functions of the active controller is to build and maintain a directory of memory sector-to-physical address translation tables.  Having the table stored in Shared Memory assures timely restart of the recorder function should it become necessary to activate and swap to the alternate controller Interfaces  The Data Recorder interfa ces with the Command Data Handling \(CDH\ubsystem via the standard SpaceWire interface 8 Utilizing conservative design techniques, a sustained Write speed of at least 200 Mbps into memory is guaranteed.   The recorder is capable of supporting simultaneous Writing and Reading of data subject to usual certain timing restrictions imposed by the memory devices themselves Standard 28 Volt bus power is applied to the SSR which features two power convert er units for redundancy Redundancy & Fault Tolerance The execution of good systems engineering practice is recommended and will, most likely result in a physical  enlargement of the SSR in one dimension.  This may consist of addition of spare memory to each memory slice, or the addition of one or more spare memory slices to the entire design With respect to Fault Tolerance, aside from the use of redundant interfaces and contro llers, described above, the HC-SSR is designed such that individual blocks of words as determined by EDAC boundaries can be tagged as Do Not Use.  An example of an EDAC word with embedded control bits is included as Figure 21  Figure 21 - EDAC Word Bit-Level Assignments File System The HC-SSR contains built in File Management system supervised by Interface/Controlle r ASICs.  File storage is compatible with the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP thereby reducing the need for processing and packetizing data externally   8 ESA Standard ECSS-E-50-12A 96 bits 26 -->||<-- 6 EDAC Ctl/Hdr/ID Data 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


