   Evaluation of the Impacts of a Provider-Focused Telehomecare Intervention: A Pre-Post Study   Guy ParÈ, Ph.D HEC MontrÈal guy.pare@hec.ca  Claude Sicotte, Ph.D University of Montreal claude.sicotte@umontreal.ca  Mohamed Chekli, M.D., M.Sc HEC MontrÈal mohamed.chekli@hec.ca 
 Mirou Jaana, Ph.D University of Ottawa jaana@telfer.uottawa.ca  CÈline De Blois, R.N CSSS Haut-Richelieu-Rouville celine.deblois@rrsss16.gouv.qc.ca   Abstract  This study presents a pre-post evaluation study of the individual and organizational effects resulting from a provider-focused telehomecare 
intervention. The project consists of the implementation of a software application aimed at optimizing the organization of clinical activities delivered at patients homes. Data collection was performed over three periods \(one pre- and two post-implementation periods\. Nurses were satisfied with th e quality of the information stored 
in the system. The software permitted the allocation of one additional hour to direct patient care, as opposed to one hour less for documentation and paperwork. Eight months after the implementation of the telehomecare application, the number of treated patients increased by 6% \(p=.04\, the average number of home visits by nurses increased by 0.7 visits per 
day \(p=.02\, and the time allocated for direct patient care increased by 14% \(p=.003   1. Introduction  Population ageing is a global phenomenon affecting most of the regions around the world including Canada. As we age, the incidence and prevalence of chronic diseases increase. The burden of chronic diseases on healthcare resources 
and the resulting costs incurred provide a powerful incentive to find effective ways to care for these patients. The challenge has become even more complex in many developed countries, including Canada in light of the increasing shortage of health care providers, especially outside large urban areas 
   In this perspective, the provision of care at the patient s home has become an alternative patient management approach which can ensure appropriate monitoring and treatment of patients while reducing costs if the appropriate care model and resources are made available. All the Canadian 
commissions that have examined the problems and challenges faced in the provincial health systems have concluded that providing home care must Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


   become a priority [2o r m ation techn o log i e s  IT\ are perceived as key mechanisms by which these changes can be implemented [5w  delivery mechanisms, such as telehomecare  defined as the application of information and communication technologies to bring health care to the home environment are emphasizing care in the home as an alternative to acute care and as a complement to primary care. Given the potential benefits associated with the use of this approach funding sources, such as the federal Canadian Health Infoway agency, as well as the Canadian provinces and territories, have declared telehomecare a priority in which large amounts of money are being invested to make it a reality [5    Despite the potential of telehomecare for improving quality, access and cost effectiveness there seems to exist a disparity between what we know about telehealth and what we can really achieve in terms of healthcare system improvement 7,8 which comes down to what works and what does not work. To address this gap, this paper presents an in-depth evaluation, based on a longitudinal case approach, of the individual and organizational outcomes resulting from a telehomecare intervention implemented in an oncology and palliative care unit in Quebec Canada  2. Forms of telehomecare interventions  The continuous increase in health care costs and the shift towards outpatient care have triggered the search for alternative techniques that can keep the patient away from the hospital, while closely monitored. Telehomecare, a particular form of telehealth intervention, can be defined as the use of information and communication technologies to enable effective delivery and management of health services like medical diagnosis, treatment consultation and/or health maintenance that occur between a patient s residence and a health care facility or professional. Previous work in this area showed that two generic forms of telehomecare interventions or models are emerging in developed countries The first generic type of telehealth home intervention, commonly known as home telemonitoring, is conceived for patients who utilize electronic devices to monitor their clinical conditions. For instance, in a large randomized control trial, cardiovascular patients in the intervention group used telephone-linked home monitoring devices on a daily basis to measure their weight, blood pressure heart rate and oxygen saturation lev T h ese patien t f o cu s e d dev i ce s transmit information to a central home telehealth management system which collects, stores, and displays clinical data and assessment documentation. Clinicians then utilize providerfocused information systems to access the data to monitor multiple clients, and provide timely interventions  A recent systematic review shows that home telemonitoring of chronic diseases appears to be a promising patient management approach that produces accurate and reliable data, empowers patients, influences their attitudes and behaviors and potentially improves their medical conditions  T h ere is als o clear ev i d en ce related to th e  benefits of home telemonitoring at the clinical level, and specifically, for patients suffering from hypertension and diabetes [1 S u bs equ e n t l y   telemonitoring systems have become an important progressive approach in health care, which involves creative user-friendly technologies that empower patients and support monitoring of their health status from home  A more recent telehomecare intervention model, which is the focus of this evaluative study targets home care health providers as its main users. This second generic type of telehealth home intervention is mainly a tool for ensuring effective management and care delivery. While the former generic type of device allows data monitoring and intervention at a distance the second type allows clinicians to integrate the care process on site at the patient s home. In this perspective, the second generic type allows patient clinical data management on site, visit scheduling, care planning and data sharing with the care team  These devices \(personal digital assistants notebooks, tablet PCs, etc.\ can access clinical information from a distance or update the patient record or care plan in real time. The objectives of this mode of intervention are mainly to achieve greater productivity among the clinical staff and improve the quality and continuity of the care provided through better clinical management  Contrary to home telemonitoring, we are not aware of any empirical study which has attempted to formally assess the impacts of provider-focused telehomecare interventions on healthcare organizations, care providers and patients, and this is where the present study makes a contribution    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  Table 1. Generic types of telehomecare models  Patientfocused telehomecare Providerfocused telehomecare Who primary users of technology Patients Healthcare home providers mainly nurses What nature of data Patientsê selfmonitoring care plans including vital signs symptoms health status measures medications lifestyle, and treatment compliance Care providers clinical pathways including provider care activities, vital signs symptoms health status measures medications lifestyle, and treatment compliance Why main purpose Systematic follow-up and monitoring of patients condition and care plan compliance from a distance Coordinate and facilitate systematic follow-ups of home-based interventions and patients condition When frequency of system use Mostly daily or weekly Anytime mostly during home visits Where From home and monitored from a distance Anywhere mostly from the patientês home the clinic, and on the road  In summary, the two telehomecare models seem complementary and similar in that they both originate at the patient s home and are aimed at supporting the care process. However, they have different underlying modalities in terms of how they function. Table 1 synthesizes these similarities and differences. Any information gathered is related to the patients and any resulting intervention also targets them. Regardless of who enters the data, the patient or the healthcare provider, the technologies in question revolve around patients and providing quality care  3. Methodology  3.1 Overview of the site and context  The telehomecare project assessed in this study was carried out in an oncology and palliative care unit in Quebec, Canada. The unit provides health care services to the region's cancer patients. Most of the unit's services are provided in the home and have been delivered by seven registered nurses and four physicians. The nurses' role is to visit patients in their homes in order to make assessments of their health status, provide the care they require document each intervention \(including the nursing plan\ a paper-based cardex system and, finally update the therapeutic care plan. The physicians role consists essentially of caring for and providing support to end-of-life patients, providing pain relief and pronouncing death  Since its creation, the care unit has witnessed a marked increase in the demand for services in an environment characterized by an aging population labor shortages and ever tighter controls over health spending. At the start of the project, the unit served 200 patients and received between 12 and 15 requests for home care services per week. The unit's assistant head nurse evaluates and approves requests for services and assigns nurses to the established schedule of home visits. In order to be able to respond to the rising demand for services the unit's management uses the services of additional nurses from private agencies, a solution that is very costly to the health facility  Prior to the deployment of the new software solution, a nurse visited three to four patients in a typical day, with each visit lasting approximately 40 minutes. As few as two visits could be made per shift when a nurse visited new patients \(opens new files\ or visited patients in their terminal phase. In both cases, their interventions naturally take more time. After visiting patients, the nurses usually return to the unit in the beginning of the afternoon to document their morning's work and plan the following day's visits \(e.g., determining their needs in terms of medical supplies and equipment\he care unit has a computerized system for entering and storing patient identification data and information on service requests, but it is not used as a clinical information system. Clinical documentation is handled by a manual system that relies on a dozen different paper forms. This has created an administrative burden and problems related to duplication of effort and poor information availability  3.2 Description of the intervention  In 2006, the unit s management team decided to invest in a project that would reduce the time being spent in clerical tasks, particularly Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


   documentation, so that more home visits could be completed per shift and patients could receive better care from the oncology and palliative care unit. The hospital's administrators were not alone in feeling that reform was needed; the unit's nurses, who would be the main people affected also felt that they needed more modern work tools  A $300,000 budget was allocated to the project, which was officially presented to the nursing and medical staff on April 16, 2007. The core of the project was an implementation of the SyMO TM software application from PG Govern This computer application optimizes the process by which the clinical activities taking place in patients' homes are organized. More specifically, it captures clinical data on patients at their source and immediately sends the information to the other care providers involved. Management decided that use of the new system would initially be limited to the main group of care providers involved, i.e., the nurses. The application was deployed at the start of June, and each nurse was provided a tablet PC with a stylus  SyMO has several distinct modules. It has a dictionary of interventions as well as a dictionary of typical intervention plans. Using the Intervention Plan module, the nurse enters the list of actions to be taken with the patient. The Case Load module is used to assign patients to care providers. Once a patient has been assigned to a care provider, the Schedule module automatically plans the visits required according to a predetermined visit rate. The nurse may at any time make changes to a schedule proposed by the system. System access is either asynchronous using the data stored in the tablet PC\ or synchronous through the network mode \(from the unit\PN \(virtual private network connection  3.3 Data collection  A pre-post research design was developed to measure the scope of the effects associated with the deployment of the SyMO application Outcomes of interest were nurses satisfaction with the software application as well as individual and group productivity. With regard to productivity, the main objectives were to increase 1\e number of patients treated by all the nurses involved in the program, 2\he average number of home visits made by a nurse per shift, and 3\he percentage of time nurses spent providing direct care to patients. It must be noted that there was no intention to reduce the number of home visits made to individual patients  Three successive periods of data collection were planned in order to assess all of these effects The first observation period was focused on the pre-deployment period \(August 2006 to May 2007\The analysis also covered two postdeployment periods in the 8 months following project deployment. The first post-deployment period \(Post 1\rom July to October 2007, dealt with the short-term effects of the new system Finally, a second post-deployment period \(Post 2 from December 2007 to February 2008, covered the medium-term effects associated with using the SyMO application  We collected data using three different types of tools: 1\ semi-structured interviews, 2\ structured questionnaires, and 3\anagerial reports. First, a total of 18 interviews were conducted to evaluate changing perceptions in terms of system quality satisfaction and perceived effects on individual and group productivity. Excerpts of the interview guides are presented in Appendix A and B Interviews were conducted with five nurses and three key project stakeholders, namely, the project manager, the champion, and the analyst and information resource manager. As shown in Table 2, interviews were conducted at three different times: at the end of May 2007 \(Pre Deployment in mid-October 2007 \(Post 1\and at the beginning of February 2008 \(Post 2  Table 2. Number and distribution of interviews  Pre Post 1 Post 2 Interviews with nurses  4 \(5 3 \(5 Interviews with team members 4 \(3 3 \(3 1 \(2 Interviews with hospital managers 2 \(1  1 \(1 Total number of interviews 6 7 5 The numbers within parentheses represent the total number of participants. Both individual and group interviews were conducted  The interviews were conducted face-to-face in the participant s office and all interviewees were informed of the confidentiality of the information they shared with the researchers and signed a consent form. Both individual and group interviews were performed  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  In order to triangulate the observable effects we also asked the nurses to complete a structured questionnaire dealing mainly with their use of SyMO and its perceived effects. This questionnaire was distribu ted twice: once in the middle of October 2007 \(Post 1\d again at the end of January 2008 \(Post 2\ll seven of the nurses completed the questionnaire at Post 1, and six of them were able to return a completed questionnaire at Post 2  Finally, we captured and analyzed the data provided by the hospital's information management system on client care at four different times: August-September 2006 \(the Pre-1 period January-February 2007 \(the Pre-2 period\ AugustSeptember 2007 \(the Post 1 period\d JanuaryFebruary 2008 \(the Post 2 period\. The data allowed us to examine the effects of the intervention on the productivity criteria presented above  3.4 Data analysis   First, all of the interviews were recorded and transcribed, resulting in 158 pages of verbatim transcript. The contents of each interview were coded according to the nurses perceptions of the new software solution \(system adoption satisfaction, and effects on individual and group productivity\. Qualitative data were reduced using matrices and tables as suggested by Glaser and Strauss d Miles an d Huberm a n 15    Second, questionnaire data were analyzed using descriptive statistics \(mean and standard deviation as well as t tests to check for differences between the pre- and post-deployment periods. Since survey instruments were mainly developed to collect data that would either confirm or refute our interpretation of the interview material, i.e. for triangulation purposes, no reliability and validity tests were performed. In any case, results of such tests would have been difficult to perform and interpret given the very small number of respondents. The survey instruments used before and after system deployment are available from the first author upon request Third quantitative data provided by the hospital s information system was analyzed using descriptive statistics and OLAP cubes in SPSS version 15.0  4. Results  This section presents detailed information on the findings of the evaluative study. The information is in two distinct sections: 1\ nurses attitudes toward and satisfaction with the SyMO application and, subsequently, the use they were making of it; 2\he perceived \(subjective\ects associated with system use in terms of individual and group productivity  4.1 Nurses satisfaction with and use of the new software solution  As mentioned above, the software was deployed in June 2007, a few weeks before summer vacations, such that when their vacations began, the users had not fully climbed the learning curve. Their return to work in August was therefore not easy in terms of system use. Several of the nurses and the care unit's management reported that SyMO was not being rapidly picked up when the nurses' returned to work. Some of them even mentioned that they wanted to return to their former habits, meaning documenting their work on paper. This problem was exacerbated by the fact that the personnel assigned to provide system support were not present when the nurses returned from their vacations  Table 3. Nurses' satisfaction with the SyMO software application   Mean \(SD\ on a Scale of 1 to 10 Post 1 Post 2 Do y ou feel that th e S y MO s y stem in y our uni t   Is easy to use 7.9 \(1.1 8.7 1.2 Requires computing knowledge that you already have 7.1 \(1.2 8.3 0.8 Is clear and understable 7.4 \(1.4 8.3 \(1.2 Rarely goes temporarily offline 8.1 \(0.7 7.9 \(1.3 Has a rapid response time 6.6 \(1.5 7.3 1.5 Overall mean 7.4 \(1.2 8.1 \(1.2  Do you feel that the clinical information contained in SyMO is  Reliable and valid 8.7 \(0.8 8.0 \(0.4 Complete 8.1 \(1.1 8.2 1.0 Relevant 8.3 \(1.0 8.5 \(0.8 Readable and understandable 8.9 \(1.2 9.2 1.0 Presented in a clear and useful format 8.4 \(1.5 8.7 1.2 Safe and confidential 8.4 \(1.3 8.2 1.6 Available when you need it 7.3 \(2.3 8.5 \(0.8 Overall mean 8.3 \(1.4 8.5 \(1.0 1 = strongly disagree and 10 = strongly agree    However, by the beginning of September 2007 continued improvements to the system were having a very positive effect on motivation levels among the nurses. Only three months after SyMO deployment \(the Post 1 period\he same nurses were reporting high levels of satisfaction with the computer tool. Interviews held in the beginning of February 2008 \(the Post 2 period\ealed that the overall level of satisfaction with the software application had again risen above levels reported for the previous period. Overall, the users found that the tool was user-friendly and powerful and that it provided high quality information \(see Table 3  Eight months after system deployment, all the nurses were using the therapeutic module as a Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


   valuable checklist when performing patient assessments and therapeutic interventions. Almost all of them were entering their observation notes directly in the home, although one of the nurses still preferred waiting until she was in her car as she did not like documenting her visit in the presence of the patient and/or spouse. However not one of the nurses was systematically updating her patients' care plans in the home. Rather they performed this task at the end of the day, since the care plan could only be reactivated from the hospital when making the assessment  Even though the data in Table 3 show that levels of satisfaction with the system and the quality of the information it contained rose slightly from the Post 1 period to the Post 2 period, the change did not prove to be statistically significant A possible explanation might be that only minor improvements were made to the system between the Post 1 and Post 2 periods  4.2 Effects of SyMO on individual and group productivity  As shown in Table 4, the nurses indicated that since SyMO had been introduced they were spending one hour more per shift providing direct care. The averages calculated from respondents estimates \(self-administered questionnaires indicate that the time spent on direct care grew from 3 hours and 24 minutes \(before system deployment\o 4 hours and 20 minutes \(after deployment, Post 1\o 4 hours and 24 minutes after deployment, Post 2\he difference recorded between the Pre and Post 2 periods was not however, found to be significant t 2.2; p=.079  Table 4. Perceived Effects of SyMO on Individual Performance  Pre Mean \(SD Post 1 Mean \(SD Post 2 Mean \(SD  Time spent per shift on direct care \(in hours and minutes 3hr 24min 54 min 4hr 20min 30 min 4hr 24min 48 min Number of home visits per shift 4.2 0.4 5.0 0.6 5.1 0.2 Time spent on documentation per shift \(in hours and minutes 2hr 15 min 36 min 1hr 9min 18 min 1hr 18min 14 min    Directly associated with this finding, the number of patients visited during a shift had also increased since system introduction. The nurses who had completed the questionnaire reported visiting an average of 4.2 patients before using SyMO, compared to 5.0 patients in the Post 1 period and 5.1 patients in the Post 2 period. This difference between the Pre and Post 2 periods was statistically significant t 9.0; p=.003 summary, the nurses reported that they were visiting one more patient per shift since SyMO had been introduced  According to the questionnaires, the nurses travelling time remained relatively unchanged Mean travelling time in a typical work day fell from 54 minutes \(the Pre period\o 48 minutes \(the Post 1 period\d then rose to 65 minutes \(the Post 2 period\ The differences were not statistically significant. However, it must be remembered that the average nurse was visiting one more patient per day after the system was deployed, which implies travel to one more patient's home per shift for each nurse surveyed. The gain in travel time per visit between the Pre period and the Post 1 period was therefore significant, falling from 13 minutes to less than 10 minutes per visit. The change observed between periods Post 1 and Post 2 is mainly attributable to the difficult winter conditions in Quebec in early 2008  SyMO implementation also resulted in a dramatic reduction in the amount of time spent documenting care. While the time spent on this task averaged 2 hours and 15 minutes per shift before SyMO was introduced, it was now 1 hour and 18 minutes t 3.8; p=.02\ain we need to remember that more patients were being visited per shift. Approximately 32 minutes were spent per file documented in the Pre period, as compared to 16 minutes per file in the Post 2 period. In summary, the trends observed in the Post 1 period were confirmed in the Post 2 period. It would appear that the SyMO deployment allowed the nurses to spend an extra hour per shift providing direct care, and one hour less on documenting their work  Next, we asked the nurses about SyMO's effect on the overall performance of their care unit. In particular, we asked about the level of communication achieved between nurses and between the nurses and the unit's physicians, as well as the quality and continuity of care provided to patients. The results on perceived organizational benefits are shown in Table 5  Table 5. Perceived benefits at the departmental level To what extent has deployment of the SyMO system had a positive effect on the following Mean \(SD\ on a scale of 1 to 10 Post 1 Post 2 Communication between unit nurses 7.1 \(1.8 7.0 \(1.3 Communication between nurses and physicians 5.9 \(1.2 6.2 \(2.1 Time spent providing direct patient care 7.4 \(1.7 7.8 \(2.1 Time spent proving patient care or treatment 6.4 \(0.9 6.0 \(2.5 Quality of care provided to patients 7.3 \(1.4 8.0 1.5 Continuity of care 8.6 \(1.0 8.7 1.2 Quality of the nurse-patient relationship 6.3 \(1.7 7.2 1.8 Appropriateness of nursing interventions 8.1 \(1.1 8.5 0.8 Overall mean 7.1 \(1.5 7.4 \(1.7 1 = very negative effect and 10 = very positive effect   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  We observed that eight months after system introduction, the perceived benefits in terms of the individual performance appeared to be greater than the perceived benefits for the group as a whole One possible explanation for this finding is that up until this point the implementation strategy had focused on appropriation of the technological tool by individuals rather than on group benefits Furthermore, the fact that the physicians were not yet using SyMO may also explain the modest results in terms of improved communication between the care unit's nurses and physicians  As a final step, we compared the nurses  perceptions using objective data obtained from managerial reports. We obtained managerial reports for four 28-day periods: two periods preceding the SyMO deployment \(12 months and 6 months before deployment\ and two periods following system deployment \(3 months and 8 months after deployment\. We used the same weeks of the year in order to control for seasonal variations  Based on the results in Table 6, we were able to draw a certain number of conclusions concerning the actual benefits eight months after the SyMO deployment. First, system use increased the number of patients treated, which rose from 211 \(in the Pre periods\ to 223 \(in the Post periods\ince the total number of days worked was virtually unchanged after the SyMO deployment, this change represents a 6% net increase in the number of patients treated t 2.3; p=.04  Second, we observed that the average number of home visits made by a nurse during her shift also rose; if we compare the data from periods P1 and P3 \(August-September\, we see that the average number of home visits made by a nurse per shift rose by 0.5 visit t 2.2; p=.04\The results are even more significant when we compare periods P2 and P4 \(January-February\, since the increase was approximately 0.7, on average t 3.1; p=.02\ addition, we note that the average number of home visits continued to rise from the third to the eighth month of use, at a rate of 0.4 visit. This finding is even more encouraging, given the fact that new case referrals \(which require creating patient files, a task that is considerably more time consuming than a regular case management visit\ peaked in the Post 2 period when they represented 60% of all active patients  Table 6. Effects of SyMO on Individual and Group Productivity   Pre-deployment Post 1 Post 2 Period P1 Period P2 Period P3 Period P4 Number of active patients 101 110 115 108 Number of new cases 48 62 37 65 New cases / number of active patients 48 56% 32% 60 Number of regular nurses \(# of days 9 \(68 7 \(95 7 \(60 6 \(95 Nursing assistants \(# of days  1 \(2\ \(1\ \(2 Number of agency nurses \(# of days 3 \(24 4 \(4 3 \(31 1 \(5 Total number of days worked 92 101 92 102 Availability for direct care \(# of days 87 96 87 97 Number of home visits 311 368 361 438 Number of visits / active patient 3.1 3.3 3.1 4.1 Average # of visits / nurse / shift 3.6 3.8 4.1 4.5 Average visit length \(in minutes 44 42 47 47 time spent in direct care 44% 43% 52% 57 P1=Aug 19 to Sept 15 2006; P2=Jan 7 to Feb 3 2007; P3=Aug 19 to Sept 15 2007; P4=Jan 8 to Feb 2 2008 This corresponds to the number of days available for direct patient care. It has been estimated that 5% of a nurse's total working time is spent in other activities, including discussing cases and other meetings training, recovering and returning patient files from archives, and entering data on their interventions in their unit's computer system. The average number of visits and the percentage of time spent in direct care have been calculated on the basis of the time available for direct care    Third, we examined the system's effect on the percentage of time the nurses spent providing direct care to patients. If we compare the data from periods P1 and P3 \(August-September\d those of periods P2 and P4 \(January-February\, we see a significant increase in the percentage of time spent providing direct care: 8 t 3.7; p=.015\d 14  t 4.9; p=.003\ respectively. In summary, eight months after system deployment the nurses were spending 57% of their time providing direct care to patients. It should be noted that among the data collected from questionnaires at the end of January the nurses indicated providing an average of 4 hours and 24 minutes of direct care per shift. This represents slightly more than 60% of their total work time. In terms of data triangulation, we found very high convergence between the objective data from the managerial reports\ and the perceptual data \(from interviews and questionnaires  Finally, it is worth noting that the use of private nursing agencies did not fall after the SyMO system was introduced. Again comparing the data from periods P1 and P3 \(August-September\with those from periods P2 and P4 \(January-February we see that the percentages associated with the number of days worked by nurses from private agencies remained relatively unchanged. In addition, we see that the effect of SyMO had not yet been felt in terms of the expected reduction in the number of overtime hours. One possible explanation may be the fact that many regular nurses worked in the two post-deployment periods a total of 13 nurses\s compared to the two predeployment periods \(a total of 16 nurses\. It should also be noted that this type of structural effects may take months to appear   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


   5. Discussion  In light of the ageing of the population and the increasing pressure on health care systems, a new form of telehomecare, which allows clinicians to integrate the care process on site  at the patient s home, appears to be a promising approach for increasing nurses performance as well as patient accessibility to care services  This study presents an evaluation of the individual and organizational effects resulting from a provider-focused telehomecare intervention implemented in an oncology and palliative care unit in Quebec, Canada. The longitudinal nature of the study, which allowed a pre and post evaluation and the triangulation of the data collection methods used allowed rigorous analysis of the results and represent a significant strength of this research  The analysis of the qualitative and quantitative data allows us to make certain observations. First in terms of adoption, the nurse users were quickly able to adapt to and adopt the new system. They showed a positive attitude toward the system and were satisfied with the quality of the information stored in the system, which appeared to be of great value for recalling patient information during a visit. According to the nurses, the clinical information system increased the completeness and quality of their interventions in the patient home mostly in terms of patient assessment, treatment and education  Second, after eight months of system use significant gains were observed in terms of the number of home visits and, indirectly, the time spent providing direct patient care. However, we should mention that most of the nurses we interviewed appeared to believe that the number of home visits would only be maximized once the system would be able to update the information in real time and through remote access. For this purpose, approximately seven months after SyMO was deployed, remote system access was provided to two nurses who lived a considerable distance from the hospital. These nurses were then able to download patient data in their homes at the start of the day and begin their visits with all the relevant and current information in hand. Before this change, these nurses made their home visits without the benefit of all the most current information on their patients, such as state of health, recent changes to their medication, etc  Finally, in terms of productivity we observed a significant increase in the number of patients treated by all the nurses \(p=.04\, the average number of home visits made by a nurse per shift p=.02\d the percentage of time spent by nurses providing direct care \(p-.003\ sum, the main advantages of the SyMO system from the point of view of nursing staff appear to be increasing the number of patients treated \(access\, increased home visits \(access\, spending more time with patients efficiency\nd less time spent on documentation efficiency  For the administrative authorities at the hospital, the success of the SyMO project also lays in the quality and continuity of care provided to patients. We intend to evaluate these important outcomes in the coming months based on a series of semi-structured interviews with patients, nurses and hospital managers  In short, despite the positive results obtained, it is important to note that continuous assessment of the effects of the provider-based telehomecare intervention over a longer period of time is important to monitor the progress of the project Future replication of this type of analysis, with larger samples of providers and in other settings would further strengthen the conclusions and allow better generalizability of these findings  6. Conclusion  Introducing the SyMO software application in an oncology and palliative care unit represents a significant organizational change. This change had positive effects on staff productivity as well as on accessibility to care services. The success of this project required a sustained commitment from the decision makers involved \(the hospital administrators and managers on the care unit considerable change management effort from the members of the project team, and close collaboration with the informatics supplier  Although nurses represented the main category of health professionals targeted when SyMO was introduced, the system may eventually be used by other professionals in particular, physicians  and this should accentuate the gains in terms of quality and continuity of care. It should also be pointed out that collateral gains in terms of fewer visits to hospital emergency rooms and hospitalizations are expected in the long term as a consequence of better case management and better ongoing care for this client group. According to the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  hospital's administration, such gains clearly represent savings to the hospital  Finally, we cannot overlook the potential for improved quality of life for the key stakeholders  the patients in terms of a reduction in the emotional and financial traumas associated with hospitalization and being separated from their families and homes. Future research needs to be conducted to assess the extent to which this novel form of telehomecare intervention has a significant impact on patients quality of life  7. References    Can a dia n In st itute f o r Health  In f o r m a tion   How healthy are rural Canadians? An assessment of their health status and health determinants, September 2006, 182 pages, http://secure.cihi.ca \(site consulted on May 24, 2008  2 Cl a i r  M  Le s so l u t i o ns   m e r ge nt e s   Commission d tude sur les services de santÈ et les services sociaux, MinistËre de la santÈ et des services sociaux Gouvernement du QuÈbec, 2000, 410 pages    Kirby M. T h e h eal th o f  C a n a dian s  The federal role. Volume six Recommendations for reform. Standing Senate Committee on Social Affairs Science and Technology, Ottawa, October 2002, 33 pages  4  Ro m a n o w   R.J B u ild in g o n v a lu e s T h e  future of health care in Canada Commission on the Future of Health Care in Canada. Ottawa, November 2002, 356 pages  5 Ca na d a H e a l t h I nfo w a y Ca na d a H e a l t h  Infoway Home Telehealth Business Case Report, April 23, 2007, 102 pages http://www.infoway-inforoute.ca/en/pdf Home_Telehealth_Business_Case_Report pdf \(site consulted on May 24, 2008    Ma y C  Fi n c h T  Mair F  Mort M Towards a wireless patient: Chronic illness, scarce care and technological innovation in the United Kingdom  Social Science & Medicine, 2005, 61 pp.1485-94    Wootton R  Di m m i c k S  L  Kv edar J.C   Home telehealth: Connecting care within the community. The Royal Society of Medicine Press: London, 2006   Miller E.A   Solving the disjuncture between research and practice: Telethealth trends in the 21 st century Health Policy 2007, 82, pp.133-41    B e n atar D. B o n d m a ss M. G h itel m a n J    Avitall B Outcomes of chronic heart failure Archives of Internal Medicine 2003, 163, pp.347-52    P a rÈ G. J aan a M. & Sicotte C   Systematic review of home telemonitoring for chronic diseases: The evidence base Journal American Medical Informatics Association, 2007 14\(3\, pp.269-277    J aan a M. P a rÈ G. & Sicotte C   Hypertension home telemonitoring Current evidence and recommendations for future studies Disease Management and Health Outcomes, 2007, 15\(1\, pp.1931    Jaan a M P a r G Home telemonitoring of patients with diabetes: A systemic assessment of observed effects  Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice 2007, 13\(2\pp.242-53    B a raldi S Me m m o la M How healthcare organizations actually use the internet's virtual space: A field study  International Journal of Healthcare Technology & Management, 2006, 7\(3/4 pp.187-207    Glas er BG Strau s s AL T h e dis c ov er y  of grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative research. Aldine: Chicago, IL 1967    Miles MB   H u ber m a n  A M Qu alita tive  data analysis: An extended sourcebook Sage Publications: Beverly Hills, CA 1994  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


   Appendix A. Excerpt of the interview guide used with nurses   Background and Context   How long have you been working in the oncology and palliative care unit? How long have you been working as a nurse in general  How would you describe the work environment in the oncology and palliative care unit? Explain  How much experience did you have with computers before the SyMO project was initiated What about other nurses in the unit  Attitudes, Satisfaction and Usage   How satisfied are you so far with the use of the SyMO software  In your viewpoint, what are its main advantages and weaknesses? Explain  How would you qualify nurses understanding of how SyMO works at this point in time? Explain  How smooth has been the adaptation to and appropriation of the new system in the first few days of usage  Do you use SyMO every time you visit a patient If not, why? Which functionalities do you use most and least? Explain  Perceived Outcomes   What have been the major benefits associated with the use of SyMO at this point in time, both from an individual perspective and from a unit standpoint Explain  Ultimately, the most significant beneficiary of SyMO should be the patient. Has this been achieved in your case? Explain  Appendix B. Excerpt of the interview guide used with project team members  Background and Context   Please summarize your professional career up until now. How much experience do you have in the design and implementation of clinical information systems  How long have you been working in the oncology and palliative care unit/health center/consulting firm  What has been your role in the design implementation and deployment of SyMO in the oncology and palliative care unit? Explain  To what extent would you say nurses were sophisticated computer users before the system was introduced to them  Attitudes, Satisfaction and Usage   In your opinion, how satisfied are nurses with the use of the SyMO software so far? Explain  If you had to characterize the transition from the paper environment to the computer-based environment, what would you say? Have you felt any form of resistance from nurses  What do you perceive to be the main advantages and weaknesses of SyMO? Explain  How would you qualify nurses understanding of how SyMO works at this point in time? Explain  Perceived Outcomes   What have been the major benefits associated with the use of SyMO at this point in time, both from an individual perspective and from a unit standpoint Explain    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


 11 R EFERENCES     Reddy, M.K. and S.M. Reddy 223Detecting FET Stuck-Open Faults in CMOS Latc hes and Flip-Flops,\224 IEEE Design and Test of Computers Vol. 3 , No. 5 , pp. 17-26, October 1986   2 R Mad g e , M. Vilg is, a nd V. Bhide, "Achieving Ultra High Quality and Reliability in Deep Sub-Micron Technologies using Metal Layer Configurable Platform ASICs", MAPLD 2005    Kewal Sal u ja, \223Di g i t a l Sy st em Fundam e nt al s, Lect ure 11\224, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Wisconsin Madison    Yu W e i  Papos ng  M oo Ki t Lee Peng W e ng Ng C h i n  Hu Ong, \223IDDQ Test Challenges in Nanotechnologies: A Manufacturing Test Strategy\224, Asian Test Symposium 2007. ATS apos;07. 16 th Volume , Issue , 8-11 Oct. 2007 Page\(s\211 \226 211  NASA GSFC Advi sory NA-GSFC 2004-06   Dan El ft m a nn, Sol o m on W o l d ay and M i nal  Sawant  New Burn In \(BI\ethodology for Testing of Blank and Programmed Actel 0.15 \265m RTAX-S FPGAs MAPLD 2005   M i nal Sawant Dan El ft m a nn,  W e rner van den Abeel an John McCollum, Solomon Wolday and Jonathan Alexander 223Post Programming Burn-in of Actel O.25um FPGA\222s\224 MAPLD 2002  B IOGRAPHY   John worked 2 years at Faichild R&D on bipolar switching performance specifically platinum dopedlife time control and the development of Ion Implantation.  He worked 15 years at Intel developing Intel's first bipolar PROM, Ion Implantation, the world's first 16K DRAM, as well as 64K and 256K DRAMs.  Mr. McCollum developed Intel's first dual layer metal CMOS technology for the 386 microprocessor.  He co-founded Actel and worked the last 20 years on process, antifuse and flash cell development and FPGA Architecture at Actel.  He holds over 50 patents   covering Process Technology, Antifuse and NVM technology, FPGA Architecture, Analog Processing and Radiation Hardening.  He has presented numerous papers at IEDM, MAPLD, CSME, SPWG, and the FPGA Symposium. He is currently a Fellow in the Technology Development Department 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


