Real-time Knowledge Discovery and Dissemination for Intelligence Analysis   Bhavani Thuraisingham Latifur Khan Murat Kantarcioglu Sonia Chib The University of Texas at Dallas lkhan@utdallas.edu  bhavani.thuraisingham@utdallas.edu  muratk@utdallas.edu  sonia.chib@student.utdallas.edu 
  Jiawei Han University of Illinois at Urbana Champagne hanj@cs.uiuc.edu   Sang Son University of Virginia son@virginia.edu     Abstract  This paper describes the issues and challenges for real-time knowledge discovery and then discusses 
approaches and challenges for real-time data mining and stream mining. Our goal is to extract accurate information to support the emergency responder, the war fighter, as well as the intelligence analyst in a timely manner   1. Introduction  Data mining/knowledge discovery is the process of posing various queries and extracting useful and often previously unknown and unexpected 
information, patterns, and trends from large quantities of data, generally stored in databases These data could be accumulated over a long period of time or they could be large data sets accumulated simultaneously from heterogeneous sources such as different sensor types. The goals of data mining include improving marketing capabilities, detecting abnormal patterns, and predicting the future based on 
past experiences and current trends. There is clearly a need for this technology for many applications in government and industry Much of the focus on data mining has been for analytical applications. However there is a clear need to mine data for applications that have to meet timing constraints. For example, a government agency may need to determine whether a terrorist activity will 
happen within a certain time or a financial institution may need to give out financial quotes and estimates within a certain time. Consider for example a medical application where the surgeons and radiologists have to work together during an operation. Here, the radiologist has to analyze the images in real-time and give inputs to the surgeon. In the case of military applications, images and video may arrive from the 
war zone. These images have to be analyzed in realtime so that advice is given to the war fighter. In the case of counter-terrorism applications, the system has to analyze the data about the passenger from the time the passenger gets ticketed until the plane is boarded and give proper advice to the security agent. For all of these applications there is an urgent need to mine 
the data and extract knowledge in real-time Therefore, we need tools and techniques for real-time data mining. The challenge is to determine which data to analyze and which data to discard for future analysis in non real-time Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


This paper describes approaches for real-time knowledge discovery. In particular the following techniques are discussed Real-time knowledge discovery techniques including real-time clustering, machine learning association rule mining, outlier and  trend detection Real-time stream mining techniques including clustering evolving streams and multidimensional stream cube analysis  The organization of this paper is as follows. A motivating scenario for real-time data mining is discussed in section 2. Some technical issues in realtime data mining are given in Section 3. Adapting data mining techniques to meet real-time constraints including multiple real-time data mining algorithms is described in Section 4. Stream data mining, which is an important aspect of mining sensor data in realtime, is discussed in Section 5. The paper is concluded in section 6   2. Motivational Scenario  There is a strong need for coordinated activities between multiple organizations \(such as Army, Navy Air force; Coalition members such as US, UK and Australia, or Health organizations such as CDC Center for Disease Control, HRSA: Human Resources and Services Administration, and Hospitals\ the crisis management domain for working with one another to determine the enemy locations at a specific time or to monitor and manage the spread of infectious diseases. Here, organizations such as local, state and federal governments or coalition members have to work together and integrate the diverse sources of information  For time-critical applications such as crisis management, there are two major components. One is data sharing and the other is decision support. The data sharing component consists of data integration where data from structured and unstructured sources have to be integrated. The integrated data has to be analyzed using data mining and data warehousing techniques. For real-time applications, active data management techniques will ensure that triggers are enforced on the data so that incidents are propagated in a timely manner. Finally the integrated data, the results obtained from activating triggers as well as the results from data mining are collected and analyzed by a decision support system to give advice to the incident commanders and decision makers One can carry out decision support analysis using partial data in which case the analysis as well as integration will be carried out incrementally. This is the bottom up approach where it is assumed that not all of the data is available at one time. The top-down approach integrates all of the data first and then carries out the mining and subsequently decision support analysis. For both approaches, the organizations may enforce their security policies including confidentiality policies, privacy policies dissemination policies and trust polices. Real-time data sharing and security have conflicting requirements. The challenge is to enforce the various policies and at the same time share the data so that real-time decision making can be carried out In defense applications, organizations such as Air Force, Navy, Army, Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency have to share intelligence and military data. Each organization may enforce its own policies. However the data has to be sent to the war fighter in real-time to make life and death decisions. For example, as a result of the analysis the outcome may be that the enemy forces will be in Location X between 6 and 6:30pm. This information has to be sent to the war fighter so that he has enough time to attack the enemy if need be. In addition to techniques for enforcing policies we also need to make tradeoffs between security and timely processing. The soldiers and the analysts have to work together to get timely and accurate information One issue with real-time analysis is that we may not be able to get the complete and accurate picture as well as meet timing constraints. In such a situation is partial information better than no information? This depends on the situation under consideration. If the plan is to say monitor the enemy, the enemy location information will be extremely valuable even if it is partial information. However if the plan is to attack the enemy, then we will need a complete and accurate picture of the situation We are investigating secure data sharing across agencies for the Air Force Office of Scientific Research [THUR e v e r ou r res e arch is focusing on the non real-time data integration and data analysis aspects. While this is very important there is also a strong need to provide a dependable real-time analysis environment so that the emergency responder as well as the war fighter gets the right information at the right time  3. Technical Issues  To study effective real-time data mining and data stream mining, the first issue is to examine what kinds of patterns and knowledge that should be mined from huge sets of data.  In general, the kinds Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


of knowledge to be mined can be categorized into the following classes: \(1\multidimensional summary which characterizes and compares summary information of different groups of data in multidimensional space; \(2\stering, which automatically partitions data into multiple groups based on the similarities among data; \(3 classification, which builds up predictive models based on the training and testing data sets; \(4 frequent pattern mining for association and correlation analysis, which mines frequent patterns for discovering association rules and correlation relationships among data; \(5\ mining changes, trends sequential patterns and evolutions with time in the data sets and data streams; and \(6\tlier detection which finds singular or small groups of data that deviate substantially from the properties of the majority of the data.  Both real-time and stream data mining involve the accomplishment of one or more of the above data mining tasks  In recent research, we have performed in-depth investigation on real-time and data stream mining for multidimensional analysis, classification and cluster analysis.  In this paper we will discuss some aspects of real-time and data stream mining in the following two major directions: \(1\ploration of real-time and data stream mining in several strategically important applications, and \(2\elopment of real-time and data stream mining methods for trend and outlier detection   4. Real-time Knowledge Discovery Techniques  We believe that the most critical issue in real-time data mining is that at any moment in time the algorithm should be able to stop and produce intermediate output with an indication of how close to optimum the intermediate output is.  This will enable a real-time data miner to determine how much weight to put on the conclusions drawn from the intermediate output.  The mining should be done efficiently, with high scalability, and incrementally when the new data sets being added into the system or the existing data sets being modified dynamically Stream data mining adds an additional but critical constraint that a data stream in most cases can be scanned only once because due to the huge size and the sequential nature of a data stream, it is unrealistic to repeatedly scan or randomly access of a data stream. Therefore, in our discussion, we will focus on how to develop efficient, scalable, and incremental data mining methods for each knowledge discovery task listed above and discuss how to extend the methods to the data stream environments with the development of single-scan mining method In this section, we will discuss each of the data mining tasks and how to extend the major methods for real-time data mining, with an emphasis on efficiency, scalability and incremental mining methods  4.1. Real-time Multidimensional Summary  For the first data mining task, multidimensional summary, which characterizes and compares summary information of different groups of data in multidimensional space, data cube has been a popular approach for multidimensional aggregation and efficient methods have been developed for computing sparse, dense, iceberg, and closed cubes\(ZDN97 BeRa99, HPDW01, XHLW03, XHSL06\.  Online analytical processing can also be performed with multidimensional databases of rather high dimensions by partial materialization LHG04\hese methods can be generalized to semi-structured databases as well.  Moreover incremental computation can be performed on data cubes with the above mentioned methods.  Thus the above computational methods set up a foundation for efficient and incremental computation of multidimensional databases  4.2. Real-time Clustering  In clustering, the goal is to partition a dataset so that similar points belong to the same cluster and dissimilar points belong to different clusters.  One of the most widely used clustering criteria is the squared error distortion, where the goal is to minimize the average squared distance from a point to its nearest center While many clustering algorithms are available the real-time nature of the problem calls for algorithms that make measurable progress towards the optimum solution.  The reason is that if an individual is to make a real-time decision based on a data mining algorithm that has not run to completion then it is important to know how far the algorithm is from the final solution. This will enable the decisionmaker to determine how much weight to put on the conclusion drawn from the incomplete run of the data mining algorithm.  Ideally, the final solution is the optimum solution, but in the case of clustering, no efficient algorithm is known for finding the optimum solution.  On the other hand, constant factor approximation algorithms are known.  For example Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


the algorithm given in \(AGKM04\ces a solution that is no worse than nine times the optimum squared error distortion.  Another desirable feature of this algorithm is that it begins with a solution that is at most 2n times the optimum, where n is the number of points and, with each successive iteration, the quality of the solution improves by a \(1-/k\actor where  is an input parameter and k is the number of clusters.  It can be shown that that after roughly O\(\(k/\log n\ steps that the cost of the solution is at most nine times the optimum.  But, more relevant to this context, if a real-time decision is made after the algorithm has completed i iterations, then the cost of 2n  A more detailed study of clustering algorithms that make measurable progress towards the optimum is needed.  Further, the problem of clustering a streaming graph in real-time is quite unexplored. We also need to investigate extensions of such algorithms to the data stream setting in the case where the goal is to find the best clusters \(GMMO00\ well as the best evolving clusters \(AHWY03  4.3. Real-time Machine Learning  In the classification problem, one is given a collection of labeled data, e.g., positive and negative examples, and the goal is to learn a function that distinguishes the two classes.  Standard examples of machine learning algorithms include learning halfspaces, decision trees and other function classes Mit97 In the real-time version of this problem, the machine learning algorithm must make measurable progress towards the optimum solution.  A consistent learning algorithm, i.e., one that maintains a hypothesis that is always consistent with the data seen so far, is one example of an algorithm that is always making progress towards the target concept For instance, in the context of learning halfspaces the algorithm of \(MT94\ays cuts the number of consistent concepts in half We need to further investigate such algorithms that make steady progress towards the final target concept so that we can quantify how informed the real-time decision is.  In this setting, the number of consistent concepts may serve as a measure of how much weight to put on the decision  4.4. Association Rules/Frequent Itemsets in Real Time   Association rules uncover patterns of the form ABC->D, with the interpretation that whenever events A and B and C occur, D also occurs.  A common first step employed in the discovery of such rules is the identification of maximal frequent itemsets, subsets of values that occur frequently in a dataset.  The Apriori algorithm \(AS94\ gives one way of identifying the maximal frequent itemsets One of the limitations of this algorithm in the real-time context is that the algorithm does not make measurable progress.  In other words, if all the frequent itemsets are of length m, the algorithm does not produce any itemsets until it has iterated through all 2m-1 subsets of the frequent itemset that are of length 1,2,3 m-1.  Such an approach may not be suitable in the real-time context since no useful output may be produced when needed Alternate algorithms do exist that may be more appropriate.  For example, \(FK96\ive an algorithm that outputs frequent itemsets with boundable delay  in between itemsets.  In particular, if there are s maximally frequent itemsets and minimally infrequent itemsets, then the algorithm spends time O\(so\(logs\me in between itemsets.  No better bound on the delay is known to this date  We need to study other boundable delay algorithms for the problem of finding frequent itemsets, closed patterns, and constraint-based mining NLHP98\ application that makes decisions in real-time, boundable delay algorithms have the advantage of making as much information available to the individual as possible  4.5. Real-time Trend Detection  For the fifth data mining task, mining changes trends, sequential patterns and evolutions with time in the data sets, there have been many studies as well For example, for mining sequential patterns, efficient and scalable algorithms, such as GSP \(AS96 PrefixSpan \(Pei+04\PADE \(Zaki01\d CloSpan YaHa03\ave been developed and shown high performance in large data sets.  Methods for incremental mining of such patterns, such as IncSpan CYH04\ave been developed as well.  We will further develop such methods for mining changes trends and evolutions in real-time for large datasets An alternate problem is to cluster real-time sequences of activity, e.g., movement through a sensor network, into a collection of Markov models where the vertices correspond to sensors and the weight on edge u,v indicates the probability that there is movement from vertex u to v.  These models are useful both for understanding normal patterns of activity as well as triggering alarms in the event of an unusual real-time sequence Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


The problem of inferring such Markov models of maximum likelihood has been studied in the past KMBRT04\.  However these algorithms have many limitations the most notable is that we do not currently know how to quantify the progress that these algorithms make as they infer the collection of Markov models. As indicated, evaluating this progress is important for a real-time miner  4.6. Real-Time Outlier Detection   Finally, for the last data mining task, outlier detection, which finds singular or small groups of data that deviate substantially from the properties of the majority of the data. It is critically important to find outliers and alarming incidents in many applications, such as homeland security, accident disasters \(fire, explosion, etc.\There have been studies on mining outliers and local outliers in large data sets \(KnNg98, SLZ01, BKNS00, JTHW06\.  In general, the outlier detection method needs to be further developed for different applications.   We will devote more effort to investigate outlier detection at real-time, especially for real-time outlier detection for spatiotemporal data sets  5. Stream Data Mining  Recent emerging applications call for investigation of stream data, where data takes the form of continuous, ordered, potentially infinite data streams, as opposed to finite, statically stored data sets.  Huge volumes of dynamically changing data are in the form of data streams, including time-series data, scientific and engineering data, and data produced in other dynamic environments, such as power supply, network traffic, stock exchange telecommunication, Web clicking, weather or environment monitoring, and so on Analysis of stream data poses great challenges to data mining research, due to the unique features of data streams, such as huge \(and possibly infinite volume, dynamically changing behavior, flowing inand-out in a fixed order, allowing only one scan of the entire data stream, and demanding fast \(often real-time\ponses. Moreover, a lot of stream data resides at the primitive abstraction level, and it is necessary to perform multi-level, multi-dimensional analysis on such data to find interesting patterns at appropriate levels of abstraction and with appropriate dimension combinations Stream data modeling, stream data management and continuous stream query processing are under popular investigation \(Babc+02, BaWi01, GKMS01 GMMO00, GKS01b, DGGR02\er, mining data streams, including classification of stream data DoHu00, HSD01\stering data streams GMMO00, Ocal+02\d finding frequent patterns in data streams \(MaMo02\re also under intensive study. Nevertheless, most existing studies have not paid enough attention to one critical fact: most data streams reside at rather low level of abstraction and are multi-dimensional in nature, whereas most analysts are interested in finding characteristics rules, unusual patterns, and dynamic changes \(such as trends and outliers\ at relatively high levels of abstraction and in multi-dimensional space Let's examine an example.  Suppose that a Web server receives a huge volume of online Web service requests, in the form of data streams.  Usually, such stream data resides at rather low level, consisting of time \(down to seconds\, Web page address \(down to concrete URL\, user IP address \(down to detailed machine IP address\, etc. However, an analyst may be interested in \(1\ finding trends happening in the data streams at certain high levels of abstraction, such as the Web clicking traffic in North America on Mideast in the last 15 minutes is 40% higher than the last 24 hours on average 2\ detecting network intrusions and traffic bursting, by multi-dimensional clustering or frequent pattern analysis, and \(3 dynamic modeling the Web traversal behavior for certain suspicious groups of users to protect network security and swiftly react to cyber-attacks.  On the other hand, from the point of view of a Web analysis provider, given a large volume of fast changing Internet traffic streams, and with limited main memory and computational power, it is only realistic to analyze the changes of Web usage at certain high levels, discover unusual events and patterns, and drill down to some more detailed levels for in-depth analysis, when needed.  Moreover, it is critical to have such analysis performed automatically or semiautomatically, and in almost real time, in order to make timely responses All these applications demand for the development of mechanisms for multi-dimensional analysis and mining of changes, trends, and unusual patterns of data streams, with low cost and fast response time.  In our recent studies, we have developed a data stream cube architecture for multidimensional stream data analysis \(Chen+02 Han+05\. Moreover, we have studied how to cluster dynamic data streams \(AHWY03, AHWY04 AHWY05\sify data streams \(WFYH03 AHWY04b, AHWY06\d finding frequent patterns in data streams \(LLHH06\ly introduce our efficient methods for effective online Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


mining of data streams and outline further research issues  5.1. Multidimensional data stream analysis using stream cubes  For multi-dimensional analysis of data streams we proposed a stream cube architecture Chen+02 Han+05\or efficient and effective multi-dimensional regression analysis in time series data streams. The major challenges for construction of a stream data cube is the huge volume of data, and the potentially even huger size of stream data cube, and the incremental update of such a stream cube.  The proposed architecture has the following features: \(1 tilted time window for registering recent data at fine granularity, and more distant ones at coarser granularity; \(2\ two critical layers: a minimal interest layer and an observation layer which are used to save minimal number of cuboids whereas achieving the power of high-level observation and low-level drilling, and \(3 an efficient data structure for partial computation of data cubes which uses an H-tree structure \(HPDW01\lly compute data cubes saving storage space pre-computation efforts, and online computation time. The stream data cubes so constructed are much smaller than those constructed from the raw stream data but will still be effective for many multi-dimensional stream data analysis tasks This architecture has been shown its efficiency and scalability in our construction of the MAIDS system Mining Alarming Incidents in Data Streams Cai+04\d its subsequent experiments with various kinds of stream data.  The architecture will be further developed in this project, especially for the analysis of correlations, trends and outliers in the context of data streams, to facilitate multi-dimensional mining of various kinds of patterns in data streams  5.2. Clustering evolving data streams  For efficient clustering of stream data, typical clustering methods proposed in machine learning statistics and data mining communities \(ABKS99 KHK99, Agga+99, AGGR98, BFR98, GRS98 NgHa94, JaDu88, KaRo90, ZRL96\ot work since they require multiple scans of a database. For single-scan clustering of data streams, new algorithms such as \(GMMO00, Ocal+02\ave been proposed.  Unfortunately, these stream clustering methods cannot be used to discover stream evolution behavior since they suffer from two deficiencies First, they assume that the clusters are to be computed over the entire data stream.  Although such an assumption may be useful in some applications, a data stream should often be viewed as an infinite process consisting of data which continuously evolves with time As a result, the underlying clusters may also change considerably with time.   The nature of the clusters may vary with both the moment at which they are computed as well as the time horizon over which they are measured. For example, a data analyst may wish to compare clusters occurring now with that in the last hour, day, week, or month.  These clusters could be considerably different.  Without considering multiple tilted time windows it is impossible to perform such comparison to find the dynamics and evolution of data streams Second, they assume that incremental clustering can be performed by maintaining only a small number of existing clusters \(such as k in the k median or k -means method\hat is, the level of granularity to be preserved across windows is at the level of macro-clusters.  However, with the fast evolving streaming data, it is obvious that some objects originally belongings to cluster C1 may need to be moved to another cluster C2 or even form a new, independent cluster C3.  Since the macro-cluster level does not register any detailed information about such groups of objects, it is impossible to make correct judgment on whether such annihilated groups of objects should be moved to another cluster or form a new one.  That is, since the amount of information maintained by a k -means or k -median type approach is too rough in granularity, and once two cluster centers are joined, there is no way to informatively split the clusters when required by the changes in the stream at a later stage. Therefore, the quality of stream clustering could suffer from the lack of sufficient information Based on these observations, we proposed a new stream clustering method, called CluStream AHWY03\ed on two major ideas: microclustering and tilted time frame, which are useful for efficient bookkeeping in data streams and overcome the two problems lack of historical information and lack of appropriate level of granularity  First, we need to explore the concept of microclustering ZRL96\sure that clustering can be adapted to the dynamic changes of data streams by using additional information at a relatively fine level of granularity.  More concretely, we maintain statistical information about the data locality in terms of microclusters, defined as a direct extension of the cluster feature vector \(ZRL96\he microclusters have an additivity property which makes them a natural choice for data streams. When new data objects streaming in, they could be either absorbed by an existing microcluster, or form a new one Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


depending on their relatively distance from the nearest microcluster center. The creation of new microclusters may lead to the merge of some nearby existing microclusters or removal of some small and outdated microclusters \(treated as old outliers These may lead to incremental maintenance and dynamic evolution of microclusters in data streams The summary information in the microclusters can be used for creation of macroclusters \(i.e., the high-level k clusters for an input parameter k\ dynamically based on an efficient clustering algorithm, such as k means, and application requirements.  Such a microcluster-to-macrocluster framework will provide an efficient and quality clustering mechanism for dynamically changing data streams Second, we need to adopt tilted time frame, where microclusters are stored at snapshots in time.   In the tilted time frame, the snapshots are maintained at different granularity depending upon their level of recency.  This framework facilitates the fading of aged microclusters and discovery of the dynamic changes of the clusters with time.  Since the time windows are tilted, the amount of information to be registered is limited and thus it strikes a balance between efficiency and the capability of detection of stream dynamics Notice that the proposed method requires us to register some additional information with respect to the tilted time frame and the finer level of granularity.  People may wonder whether the overhead may outweigh the potential benefit.  Based on our initial experiments, even with very moderate sized microclusters \(such as the number of microclusters is only about 10 * k, where k is the number of macroclusters\, the quality of clustering can be enhanced substantially, with only very minimal overhead in computation time \(AHWY03 The clustering quality enhancement by this approach is striking for dynamically changing data, such as network intrusion data.  Therefore, with the current availability of fast computers and considerable sized main memory \(usually more than one million times bigger in bytes than k, where k is the desired number of macroclusters\alistic to trade some computation resource for the quality and flexibility of stream clustering With the above discussed framework, i.e., microclustering and tilted time window, several other clustering paradigms, such as density-based clustering \(ABKS99\ssian distribution-based clustering \(HiKe98\d distance- and connectionintegrated hierarchical clustering \(KHK99\ be re-examined in the context of stream clustering Efficient and effective stream clustering algorithms can be developed following those paradigms as well  We need to investigate the efficient and effective methods for stream clustering based on the ideas outline above and construct effective and highquality methods for clustering dynamic, dataintensive streams to discover the dynamics of data streams  5.3. Dynamic modeling and classification of data streams  As an essential data mining task, classification has been one of most popularly studied subjects in machine learning, statistics, and data mining Quin86, WiFr00, Mitc97, HTF01, HaKa06\There have been many well-developed classifiers, such as decision trees, naive Bayesian classifiers, Bayesian networks, nearest neighbor, neural networks, and support vector machines.  In many studies researchers have found that each classifier has advantages for certain types of data sets \(LLS00 For stream data, there is a necessity to dynamically construct classifiers based on the historical and current information, which poses the following challenges 1. The classifier construction process should be fast and dynamic because the data may arrive at a high rate, with dramatic changes.  For example, thousands of packets can be collected from sensor nets every second, and millions of customers may make purchases every day 2. The classifier should also evolve over time since the labels of similar records may change from time to time.  As a result, how to keep trace of this type of evolution and how to discover the cause that leads to the evolution is an important and difficult problem  To build fast, adaptive, and evolving classifiers in the stream data environment, one needs to reexamine the broad spectrum of available classifiers to see what kinds of classifiers may be good candidates for stream classification.  Some of the known classifiers, such as neural networks and support vector machines, may not be good for single-scan very fast model reconstruction while handling the huge volumes of stream data. Recently, \(DoHu00 HSD01\eloped a few efficient decision tree induction algorithms for stream data, such as VFDT and CVFDT. However, these stream classification methods are not adequate at handling data streams and discovering stream evolution regularity, based on the following analysis First, decision trees have been popularly adopted as the first choice in the classification of stream data Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


such as \(DoHu00, HSD01\or its simplicity and easy explanation.  However, it is difficult to dynamically and drastically change decision trees due to the costly reconstruction once they have been built In many real applications, there are frequent dynamic changes in stream data, such as in stock data analysis, traffic or weather modeling, and so on.  In addition, a large amount of raw data is needed to build a decision tree.  According to the model proposed in \(HSD01\ necessary to keep such raw data in memory or on disk since they may be used later for updating the statistics when old records leave the window and for reconstructing parts of the tree. If the concept drifts often, the related data needs to be scanned multiple times so that the decision tree can be kept updated. This is usually unaffordable for streaming data. Also, after detecting the drift in the model, it may take a long time to accumulate sufficient data to build an accurate decision tree HSD01\ny drift taking place during that period either cannot be caught or will make the tree unstable Second, based on the similar observation as in stream clustering, without storing historical information, it is impossible to detect the evolution regularity of classification models for dynamic data streams.  In practice, one may need to compare the models constructed at different time frames and see what has changed.  Moreover, it is often necessary to put different weights on the data arriving at different time frames so that aged data can be weighted less and be gradually faded out.  This poses the necessity for a tilted time frame model Based on the above analysis, we proposed two major components for the construction and dynamic evolution of classification models: \(1\ime frame, and \(2\sification method that is more adaptable to the changes of data First, a tilted time frame similar to that described above is introduced in our stream classification model.  This ensures that essential historical information can be saved for fading aged data and for comparing models at different times to discover the evolution of classification models Second, instead of refining the decision tree model, we integrate a classification method that is more adaptive to the changes of data. We developed and tested three methods for classification of data 2 naïve Bayesian classifier with boosting \(YYHW05 and \(3\-nearest neighbor approach \(AHWY06 The first such test is to construct an ensemble classifier \(WFYH03\at explores the power of ensemble multiple classifiers, each being a simple classification model adaptive to dynamic changes of data streams.  Our experiments show the high accuracy and efficiency of such a classification methods, despite of the dynamic changes of data streams The second test is to integrate a naïve Bayesian classifier \(YYHW05\, since it is easy to construct and adapt.  The naïve Bayesian classifier, in essence maintains a set of probability distributions P\(ai | v where ai and v are the attribute value and the class label, respectively.  To classify a record with several attribute values, it is assumed that the conditional probability distributions of these values are independent of each other. Thus, one can simply multiply the conditional probabilities together and label the record with the class label of the greatest probability. Despite its simplicity, the accuracy of the naïve Baysian classifier is comparable to other classifiers, such as decision trees \(Mitc97, DoPa97 To further enhance the accuracy of stream classifier a boosting technique similar to that described in FrSc97\ be introduced.  The boosting method retains a portion of recent data set as an independent testing set, and then puts additional weight on the misclassified cases, that is, increasing the weight when new similar cases of data streaming in.   Our experimental results show that this method leads to a high quality stream classifier The third test is to construct a k-nearest neighbor classifier \(AHWY06\at performs microclustering in a similar way as clustering evolving data streams and then perform classification dynamically based on k such precomputed and incrementally updated microclusters.  This method integrated the streambased microclustering with online classification based on k -nearest neighbors and leads to high accuracy and high efficiency/scalability in stream classification  6. Conclusion  In this paper we have discussed issues approaches, challenges and directions for Real-time and Stream Data Mining. In particular, we discuss real-time clustering and outlier detection approaches as well as stream data mining and multidimensional analysis. For each topic we discuss some approaches we have developed and the research that needs to be done Real-time knowledge discovery and dissemination is a new direction. Not only do we need to extract useful patterns we also need to extract such patterns in a timely manner so that the emergency responder or the war fighter or the intelligence analyst has this information to make Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


appropriate decisions. On the one hand we can determine all possibilities ahead of time and execute during run time. At the other extreme we need to extract the nuggets as well as develop models during run time. We can also develop solutions that carry out partial computations ahead of time and the rest during run time Several techniques such as real-time query approximation have been proposed by the real-time research community. The knowledge discovery community has developed numerous data mining and machine learning algorithms. This paper attempts to integrate the solutions proposed by both communities  7. References  ABKS99  M  A n k e r s t  M  B r e u n i g  H  P  K r i e g e l  a n d   J.  Sander. OPTICS:  Ordering  points  to  identify the clustering structure.  In Proc. 1999 ACM-SIGMOD Int Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'99\, pages 49-60 Philadelphia, PA, June 1999  AGGR98 R  A g raw a l,  J  G e hrk e D  G unopu los   a nd P  Raghavan.  Automatic subspace clustering of high dimensional data for data mining applications.  In Proc 1998 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data SIGMOD'98\ges 94-105, Seattle, WA, June 1998  AGK A r y a G a rg K h a nde k a r, Mey e rs on, Mu na g a la  and Pandit.  Local Search Heuristics for k-Median and Facility Location Problems.  SIAM Journal of Computing vol. 33, 2004  AS94 R. A g ra wa l a nd R. Srik a n t. Fa st a l g o rithm s  f o r mining association rules.  In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'94\ges 487-499, Santiago Chile, Sept. 1994  AHWY C  C  A g ga r w a l J   H a n,  J  W a ng a nd P  S   Yu.  A framework for clustering evolving data streams.  In Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'03 pages 81-92,  Berlin, Germany, Sept. 2003  AHWY04a C  A g g a r w a l J  H a n, J  W a ng a nd P. S  Y u    A framework for projected clustering of high dimensional data streams. In Proc. 2004 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'04\, pages 852-863, Toronto, Canada, Aug 2004  AHWY C. A g g a r w a l J  H a n, J  W a ng  a nd P. S. Y u   On demand classification of data streams. In Proc. 2004 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'04\ges 503-508, Seattle, WA, Aug 2004  AHWY C. C. A g g a r w a l J  H a n, J  W a ng  a nd P. S. Y u   On efficient algorithms for high dimensional projected clustering of data streams. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 10:251-273, 2005  AHWY06 C  A g g a r w a l  J  H a n  J  W a n g  a n d  P  S  Y u    A framework for on demand classification of evolving data streams. In IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,  18\(5\77-789, 2006  APW+ 99  C  A g g a rw a l  C  Pr o c o p i u c  J  W o l f  P  S   Yu, and J.-S. Park. Fast algorithms for projected clustering In Proc. 1999 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'99\ges 61-72, Philadelphia, PA, June 1999  AS94 R. A g ra w a l a nd R. Srik a n t.  Fa st a l g o rithm s f o r  mining association rules.  In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'94\ges 487-499, Santiago Chile, Sept. 1994  BBD+ 02 B  Bab c o c k  S. Bab u M. Datar, R. M o tw an i and J. Widom. Models and issues in data stream systems In Proc. 2002 ACM Symp. Principles of Database Systems PODS'02\pages 1-16, Madison, WI, June 2002  BFR98 P  Bra dle y U. Fa y y a d, a n d C  Re ina  Sc a ling  clustering algorithms to large databases. In Proc. 1998 Int Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'98 pages 9-15, New York, NY, Aug. 1998  BKNS00  M   M  B r e u n i g  H  P  K r i e g e l  R  N g   a n d   J.  Sander.  LOF:  Identifying  density-based  local outliers In Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'00\ges 93-104, Dallas, TX, May 2000  BR99 K  B e y e r a n d R  R a m a k r i s h n a n  B o t t o m u p   computation  of  sparse  and  iceberg  cubes.   In Proc 1999  ACM-SIGMOD  Int.  Conf.  Management  of  Data SIGMOD'99\ges  359-370, Philadelphia, PA, June 1999  B C J C  Bu rges A t u t o ri al  o n su pp o r t vect o r  machines for pattern recognition.  Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2:121-168, 1998  BW01 S. B a bu a n d J  W i dom C o ntin uo us  que rie s ov e r  data streams.  SIGMOD Record, 30:109-120, 2001  CCP+ 04 Y  D  C a i  D  C l u t t e r  G  P a p e  J  H a n  M   Welge, and L. Auvil.  MAIDS: Mining alarming incidents from data streams.  In Proc. 2004 ACM-SIGMOD Int Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'04\ges 919-920 Paris, France, June 2004  CDH+ 02 Y  C h e n  G  D ong J  H a n, B  W  W a h, a nd J   Wang. Multi-dimensional regression analysis of time-series data streams.  In Proc. 2002 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'02\, pages 323-334, Hong Kong, China Aug. 2002  CKS+ 88  P. Che e s e m a n J  K e lly M. Se l f J  Stutz  W   Taylor, and D. Freeman. AutoClass:  a Bayesian Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


classification system. In Proc. 1988 Int. Conf. Machine Learning, pages 54-64, San Mateo, CA, 1988  CYH04 H  C h e n g   X  Y a n   a n d J  H a n  I n c S p a n     Incremental  mining  of  sequential  patterns  in large database.  In Proc. 2004 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'04\ges 527532, Seattle, WA, Aug. 2004  DGGR02 A  D obra  M. G a rofa la k i s  J   G e hrke a nd R   Rastogi. Processing complex aggregate queries over data streams.  In Proc. 2002 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data \(SIGMOD'02\, pages 61-72 Madison, WI, June 2002  DH00  P  D o m i ng os a nd G  Hulte n Mini ng hig h s pe e d  data streams.  In Proc. 2000 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'00\, pages 7180, Boston, MA, Aug. 2000  DHS R O Du d a   P  E Hart  an d D G  S t o r k P a ttern Classification \(2nd ed.\ John Wiley & Sons, 2001  DP9  P  Do m i n g o s an d M  J  P azzan i  On t h e o p t i m al i t y  of  the  simple  bayesian  classifier  under zero-one loss Machine Learning, 29:103-130, 1997  FK96 M Fre d m a n a nd L  K h a c hiy a n.  O n the Co m p le x i t y  of Dualization of Monotone Disjunctive Normal Forms Journal of algorithms, vol. 21, 1996  FS97 Y  Fre u n d a nd R. E. Sc ha pire A de c i s i on-the o re tic  generalization of on-line learning and an application to boosting.  J. Computer and System Sciences, 55:119-139 1997  GKMS01 A  C. G ilbe r t, Y. K o tidis S M u th uk rishna n   and M. Strauss.  Surfing wavelets on streams: One-pass summaries for approximate aggregate queries. In Proc 2001 Int. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'01 pages 79-88, Rome, Italy, Sept. 2001  GKS01 S. G uha N  K o u d a s a nd L  Shim D a ta s t r e am s and historgrams.  In Proc. ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing \(STOC'00\, pages 471-475, Crete, Greece, July 2001  GMMO00 S   G u h a  N   M i s h r a  R  M o t w a n i  a n d L    O'Callaghan.   Clustering  data  streams.   In  Proc. 2000 Symp.  Foundations  of  Computer  Science  \(FOCS'00 pages  359-366,  Redond o  Beach, CA, 2000  GRG J  G e hrk e R  R a m a k r is hna n, a n d V. G a nti   RainForest: A framework for fast decision tree construction of large datasets.  In Proc. 1998 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'98\ges 416-427, New York, NY, Aug 1998  GRS98 S. G uha R. Ra s t og i, a nd K  Shim Cure  A n  efficient clustering algorithm for large databases.  In Proc 1998  ACM-SIGMOD  Int.  Conf.  Management  of  Data SIGMOD'98\ges 73-84, Seattle, WA, June 1998  H  J Han  Y C h en  G  Do n g  J  P e i B  W  W a h   J. Wang, and Y. D. Cai.  Stream cube:  An architecture for multi-dimensional analysis of data streams. Distributed and Parallel Databases, 18:173-197, 2005  Hec96 D  H e c k e r m a n.  B a y e s i an ne tw ork s f o r k now le dg e  discovery.  In U. M. Fayyad, G. Piatetsky-Shapiro, P Smyth, and R. Uthurusamy, editors, Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 273-305 MIT Press, 1996  HK98 A  H i nne bur g a n d D  A  K e i m  A n ef f i c i e n t approach to clustering in large multimedia databases with noise.  In Proc. 1998 Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'98\, pages 58-65, New York, NY, Aug 1998  HK06 J  H a n a nd M. K a m b e r D a ta Mining C onc e p ts a n d  Techniques \(2nd ed.\Morgan Kaufmann, 2006  HPDW01 J  H a n, J  P e i, G  D ong a nd K  W a ng    Efficient computation of iceberg cubes with complex measures. In Proc. 2001 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data \(SIGMOD'01\ges 1-12, Santa Barbara, CA, May 2001  HPY00 J  H a n, J   P e i  a n d Y  Y i n Min i ng f r e que nt  patterns without candidate generation.  In Proc. 2000 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data SIGMOD'00\ges 1-12, Dallas, TX, May 2000  HSD01 G  H u lte n, L  Spe n c e r  a nd P  D o m i ng os Mining  time-changing data streams.  In Proc. 2001 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'01 San Fransisco, CA, Aug. 2001  HTF01 T  H a s tie R T i bs hira ni, a nd J  Frie dm a n T h e Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference and Prediction.  Springer-Verlag, 2001   A  K Jain an d R C Du b e s A l go rith m s  f o r Clustering Data.  Prentice Hall, 1988  JTHW W  J i n, A  K  H  T u n g  J  H a n, a nd W  W a ng   Ranking outliers using symmetri c neighborhood relationship.  In Proc. 2006 Pacific-Asia Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(PAKDD'06\, Singapore, April 2006   G  Kar y p i s E H Han  an d  V  Ku m a r   CHAMELEON:  A hierarchical clustering algorithm using dynamic modeling.  COMPUTER, 32:68-75, 1999  KMBRT04 P  K ontk a ne n   P   My ll y m ak i, W  B unti n e  J   Rissanen, H. Tirri. An MDL Framework for Data Clustering. MIT Press, 2004  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


KN98 E. K nor r a nd R. N g A l g o rithm s  f o r m i ning  distance-based outliers in large datasets. In Proc. 1998 Int Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'98\, pages 392-403 New York, NY, Aug. 1998  KR90 L  K a u f m a n a nd P  J  R ous s e e u w  Finding G r oups  in Data: An Introduction to Cluster Analysis. John Wiley Sons, 1990  LHG  X L i J  H a n a nd H  G onz a l e z  H i g h dimensional OLAP: A minimal cubing approach.  In Proc 2004 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'04\, pages 528-539, Toronto, Canada, Aug. 2004  LLHH H  L i u, Y  L u J  H a n a nd J  H e Error-a da ptiv e  and time-aware maintenance of frequency counts  over data  streams.   In  Proc.  2006  Int.  Conf.  on  Web-Age Information  Management \(WAIM'06\, pages 484-495 Hong Kong, China, June, 2006  LLS00 T S  Li m   W Y   Lo h  a n d Y  S  Sh ih  A  comparison of prediction accuracy, complexity, and training time of thirty-three old and new classification algorithms. Machine Learning, 40:203-228, 2000  Mit97 T  M Mitc he ll Ma c h i n e L e a r ning Mc G r a w Hill 1997  MM02 G  Ma nk u a nd R  Motw a n i.  A pprox im a t e frequency counts over data streams.  In Proc. 2002 Int Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'02\, pages 346-357 Hong Kong, China, Aug. 2002  MT94 Ma a s s a nd T u r a n.  A l g o r ithm s a nd L o w e r B ounds  for On-Line Learning of Geometrical Concepts.  Machine Learning, vol. 14, 1994   R Ng an d J Han   E f f i ci en t an d eff ect i v e  clustering method for spatial data mining.  In Proc. 1994 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'94\, pages 144155, Santiago, Chile, Sept. 1994  NLHP98 R  N g  L  V  S  L a k s h m a n a n  J  H a n  a n d A   Pang. Exploratory mining and pruning optimizations of constrained associations rules.  In Proc. 1998 ACMSIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'98 pages 13-24, Seattle, WA, June 1998  OMM+ 02 L  O  Ca lla g h a n A  Me y e rs on, R. Mo tw a n i, N   Mishra, and S. Guha. Streaming-data algorithms for highquality clustering.  In Proc. 2002 Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE'02\pages 685-696, San Fransisco, CA Apr. 2002  PHMA+ 04 J  P e i J Han B  M o rtazavi-Asl J W a n g  H  Pinto, Q. Chen, U. Dayal, and M.-C. Hsu. Mining sequential patterns by pattern-growth: The prefixspan approach. IEEE Trans. Knowledge and Data Engineering 16:1424-1440, 2004  Qui86 J  R. Q u inla n.  In du c tion of de c i s i on tre e s    Machine Learning, 1:81-106, 1986  SA96 R   S r i k a n t a n d  R  A g r a w a l  M i n i n g s e q u e n t i a l   patterns:  Generalizations  and  performance improvements In Proc. 5th Int. Conf. Extending Database Technology EDBT'96\ges 3-17, Avignon, France, Mar. 1996  SLZ01 S  S h e k h a r  C  T  L u  a n d  P  Z h a n g  D e t e c t i n g  graph-based spatial outlier:  Algorithms and applications  \(a summary  of  results\roc.  2001  ACM  SIGKDD Int.  Conf.  Knowledge Discovery in Databases \(KDD'01 San Fransisco, CA, Aug. 2001  SS B S c ho el ko p f an d A  J S m o l a L e arn i n g w i t h  Kernels:  Support Vector Machines, Regularization Optimization, and Beyond.  MIT Press, 2002  THUR06 B  T hur a i s i ng ha m  A s s u r e d I n f o r m a tion  Sharing: Volume 1: Overview, UTD Technical Report 2006  TSK05  P  T a n, M Ste i n b a c h a n d V  K u m a r    Introduction to Data Mining.  Addison Wesley, 2005  WF05 I. H. W itte n a nd E. Fra n k  Da ta Mining P r a c tic a l  Machine Learning Tools and Techniques \(2nd ed Morgan Kaufmann, 2005  WFYH03 H  W a ng W  Fa n, P   S. Y u a n d J  H a n. Min i ng  concept-drifting data streams using ensemble classifiers.  In Proc.  2003  ACM  SIGKDD  Int.  Conf.  Knowledge Discovery  and  Data  Mining \(KDD'03\ges 226-235 Washington, DC, Aug. 2003  XHLW D   Xi n, J  H a n X   L i a nd B  W  W a h.  Sta r cubing:  Computing iceberg cubes by top-down and bottom-up integration. In Proc. 2003 Int. Conf. Very Large Data Bases \(VLDB'03\ges 476-487, Berlin, Germany Sept. 2003  XHSL06 D   X i n  J  H a n   Z   S h a o   a n d H  L i u   C cubing:  Efficient  computation  of  closed  cubes  by aggregation-based checking.  In Proc. 2006 Int. Conf. Data Engineering \(ICDE'06\ Atlanta, Georgia, April 2006    X  Yan  a n d  J.  Han  Cl o s eG rap h    M i n i n g   closed  frequent  graph  patterns.   In  Proc.  2003 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'03\ges 286-295, Washington, DC, Aug 2003   H Yu  J Yan g  an d J Han  Classify in g larg e data sets using SVM with hierarchical clusters.  In Proc 2003 ACM SIGKDD Int. Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining \(KDD'03\ges 306-315, Washington, DC Aug. 2003  YYHW05 J Yan g  X  Yan  J Han  an d W  Wan g   Discovering evolutionary classifier over high speed nonstatic stream. In S. Bandyopadhyay, U. Maulik, L. B Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


Holder, and D. J. Cook \(eds.\Advanced Methods for Knowledge Discovery from Complex Data, pages 337-363 Springer, 2005  Zak01 M  Z a ki  S P A D E   An eff i ci en t al go ri t h m  f o r mining frequent sequences.  Machine Learning, 40:31-60 2001  ZDN97 Y  Zha o  P. M. D e s h p a nde a nd J  F. N a ug hto n   An array-based algorithm for simultaneous multidimensional aggregates. In Proc. 1997 ACMSIGMOD Int. Conf. Management of Data \(SIGMOD'97 pages 159-170, Tucson, AZ, May 1997  ZH0  M  J  Z a ki an d C J Hsi ao  CHA R M  A n eff i ci en t  algorithm for closed itemset mining. In Proc. 2002 SIAM Int. Conf. Data Mining \(SDM'02\ges 457-473 Arlington, VA, April 2002  ZRL96 T  Zha n g  R  R a m a kris hna n, a n d M. L i v n y   BIRCH  : an efficient data clustering method for very large databases. In Proc. 1996 ACM-SIGMOD Int. Conf Management of Data \(SIGMOD'96\, pages 103-114 Montreal, Canada, June 1996   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


28 NASA 2005 Bushfires Race Across Eyre Peninsula in South Australia Photograph NASA Earth Observations Washington DC 20546-0001 viewed 30th July 2007  29 Ettenberg M.H et al 2003 A miniaturized 320 times 256 indium gallium arsenide SWIR camera for robotic and unmanned aerial vehicle applications Orlando FL United States 30 flirthermography.com 2006 Boy holding a hot mug and cold bottle Infrared Image FLIR Systems Inc Wilsonville USA viewed 5th October 2006  31 flirthermography.com 2006 Suspect caught using Infrared technology Infrared Image FLIR Systems Inc Wilsonville USA viewed 5th October 2006  32 Umamaheshwaran R W Bijker and A Stein 2007 Image Mining for Modeling of Forest Fires From Meteosat Images Geoscience and Remote Sensing IEEE Transactions on vol 45 no 1 pp 246-253 33 Jasiunas M.D et al 2002 Image fusion for uninhabited airborne vehicles paper presented at the IEEE International Conference on Field-Programmable Technology FPT Hong Kong China 34 Wong S 2005 Advanced correlation tracking of objects in cluttered imagery paper presented at the SPIE The International Society for Optical Engineering Conference on Acquisition Tracking and Pointing XIX Orlando FL United States 35 Society of Fire Protection Engineers SFPE SFPE handbook of fire protection engineering 3rd ed ed P.J Dinenno et al 2002 Quincy MA National Fire Protection Association 1600 36 Manzello S.L et al 2006 Firebrand production from burning vegetation Forest Ecology and Management vol 234 no Supplement 1 p S119 37 Manzello S.L et al 2006 On the ignition of fuel beds by firebrands Fire and Materials vol 30 no 1 pp 77-87 temperature International Journal of Remote Sensing vol 24 no 17 pp 3515-3520 40 Weaver J.F J.F.W Purdom and T.L Schneider 1995 Observing Forest Fires with the GOES-8 3.9&micro;m Imaging Channel Weather and Forecasting vol 10 no 4 December 01 1995 pp 803-808 41 Manzello S.L et al Urban-Wildland Fires On the Ignition of Surfaces by Embers in the Fourth 4th Joint Meeting of the U.S Sections Combustion Institute E3 Fire Research III 2005 Combustion Institute and Drexel University Philadelphia PA p 16 42 Jasiunas M D Kearney and R Bowyer 2005 Connectivity Resource Integration and High Performance Reconfigurable Computing for Autonomous UAVs paper presented at the Aerospace 2005 IEEE Conference Big Sky Montana USA 2005 BIOGRAPHY Grant Wigley is a lecturer at the University of South Australia and a member of the Reconfigurable Computing Laboratory He is interested in operating systems for the management Of reconfigurable computing applications and application domains for high performance computing platforms He has a PhD from the University of South Australia Ronald Graml has a Bachelor of Computer and Information Science Honors from the University of South Australia and an Associate Diploma of Electronic Engineering from Regency Institute He is currenly a PhD candidate at the University of South Australia and a member of the Reconfigurable Computing Laboratory His current research interests include UAV autonomy operating systems for FPGAs computer vision and bushfire monitoring 38 Kozeki D 2001 Smoldering fire detection by imageprocessing Gaithersburg MD USA 39 Giglio L and C.O Justice 2003 Effect of wavelength selection on characterization of fire size and 13 


  14 B IOGRAPHY  Capt. Chris Badgett is a System Engineer for the STP-SIV at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. He previously served as developmental engineer at Air Force Research Laboratory Munitions Directorate working on a weapon data link and F-16 small munitions dispenser. He has a B.S.E.E. from University of Tennessee and an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STP-SIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology Mike Hurley is the Spacecraft Development Section Head at NRL in Washington DC. Mr. Hurley has helped shape and implement ORS and TacSat experimentation since 2002. Beginning April 2003, he was Program Manager for the Secretary of Defense\222s \(OSD\ ORS initiative, as well as the Principle Investigator for Office of Naval Research\222s \(ONR\ TacSat Innovative Naval Prototype \(INP program. In 2005 he received the DOD Civilian Meritorious Medal for his work in ORS and TacSat experimentation. He is an engineering graduate of Virginia Tech and holds an M.B.A. from George Mason University  Paul Jaffe is an electrical engineer and the Integration and Testing Section Head at the Naval Center for Space Technology at NRL. He has worked on NASA and DOD space missions, including Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory STEREO\ and TacSat-1. Recently he developed standards and led spacecraft computer hardware development for TacSat-4 as part of the DOD ORS effort He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University Hallie Walden is an Advanced Systems Manager at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. She worked as the STP-SIV Capture Manager and as the Deputy Program Manager from program inception through the Preliminary Design Review. Prior efforts include thermal, fluids, and thermodynamic analyses and design for Ball Aerospace, Lockheed Martin, and AlliedSignal \(now Honeywell\. She holds B.S.M.E and M.S.M.E. degrees from Stanford University  Alan Lopez is currently a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. in Boulder CO since 2005. He received his undergraduate degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois and began working at TRW in Redondo Beach, CA in 1985. After completing his M.S.E.E. degree at the University of Southern California in 1990, he began working at Hughes Space and Communications in El Segundo, CA  Mike Pierce is a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. He is the Chief System Engineer for the STP-SIV program and wrote the STP-SIV PLUG. Prior efforts include system modeling and simulation, mission operations, and mission design working for Spectrum Astro \(now General Dynamics\ and the USAF At Spectrum Astro, he was a key member of Discover II Space Based Infrared System\( SBIRS\ Low and Near Field Infrared Experiment \(NFIRE\ programs. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder  David Kaufmann is Program Manager for STP-SIV at Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp He also served as Program Manager for DARPA Orbital Express NextSat Commodity Spacecraft program. He previously served as a Thermal Engineer at Hughes Space and Communications Co. in El Segundo, CA. He holds a B.S. from Stanford University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in Mechanical Engineering 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


