1 Strategies for Time-based Multi-path Secure Information Disseminations in MANETs Xiaoyan Hong Bo Gu Qunwei Zheng Department of Computer Science University of Alabama Tuscaloosa AL 35487 Abstract  Sending messages securely to protect condentiality in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks is a challenging issue due to the open wireless media the spacial constraints and the difculty in establishing strict security mechanisms To tackle the problem we have presented a scheme where a source node sends shares of a message at different times 
Due to node mobility the shares will be routed through different intermediate nodes It is highly unlikely that a particular intermediate node an eavesdropper is able to be on or around many of these routes and collect enough shares to reconstruct the original message The scheme is particular suitable for applications that can tolerate long message delays as those studied in Delay Tolerant Networks The paper focuses on analyzing the strategies that a node can use in determining the intervals between two shares and in tuning to applications requirements 
on delay bounds The results provide a guideline for the conguration and the security of the scheme We further investigate the inuence from various mobility models on the security property The results show big differences among the models and the practical aspect of the scheme In all our proposed scheme provides a valuable alternative for delay tolerant applications to enhance message condentiality I I NTRODUCTION Mobile Ad Hoc Networks are vulnerable to many attacks due to the open wireless media and the difﬁculty 
in establishing strict security mechanisms in a highly dynamic network with changing members and mobility For the purpose of sending messages securely for conﬁdentiality several approaches can be used e.g message encryption spatial multi-path routing and temporal multi-path routing Encrypting messages before transmitting requires the distribution of cryptography keys Both symmetric key and public key schemes face challenges due to the dynamic nature of mobile ad hoc networks In a mobile  Dr Qunwei Zheng is now with Cerqa 1309 Rutherford Ln 
Austin TX 78753 978-1-4244-2677-5/08/$25.00 c  2008 IEEE ad hoc network the security and accessability of Key Distribution Center KDC for establishing symmetric keys cannot be guaranteed In addition KDC is a single point of failure Some early work 8 9 24 require physical contacts or key pre-distribution which are not all practical in MANETs An alternative approach is to use public keys which requires the existence of distributed and online Certiﬁcate Authorities CAs for veriﬁcations Various schemes have been proposed 
for the purpose   7  11  14  27 T he y e ither require initialization before deployment or provide only probabilistic guarantees Cryptographic approaches usually require additional computation time and bandwidth which could be expensive for nodes that are resource constrained Nodes can be compromised and a compromised node gives away all keys stored in its memory making communication not secure Cryptography cannot defend against adversaries that simply drop messages The multi-path approach splits a message into multiple shares and spreads them through multiple spacial disjoint 
paths to the destination Several related secure data transmission schemes have been proposed following the idea e.g using node-disjoint paths  16 M ultipath routing in MANET is used to select these paths  12  20 21 T hese schemes t well for scenarios where the space is large enough for the multiple paths to spread apart But they are not appropriate when a network is sparse or deployed in a restricted geographic area where not enough node-disjoint multiple paths can be found In our recent work  a temporal multi-path r outing has been proposed for secure transmission for appli 
cations that tolerate delay such as applications that suitable for delay-tolerant networks The scheme does not require encryption In the scheme a message is split into many shares and each share is sent one after another with a certain interval of delay The protocol assumes that underlying MANET routing protocol will nd a path for delivering a share In this scheme mobility helps to protect the conﬁdentiality in data transmission When 


2 sender or forwarders move in the network they’ll have different neighbor nodes This will decrease the chances that a series of shares will be eavesdropped by the same node over time who will be able to recover the original message In this paper we study one of the key design issues for the temporal multi-path based routing scheme namely how the source node decides when to send a share or multiple shares and what the associated risks are We focus on strategies that take into considerations of mobility and the application’s requirement on the total delay in receiving enough shares and reconstructing the original message Our analysis is based on a uniform distribution and random walk direction type of mobility Further we investigate through simulation how different mobility models affect the proposed temporal multi-path based routing scheme The results show useful insights on the practical aspect of the scheme and suggest that the strategies have analytical and practical signiﬁcance for the conﬁguration and the security of the scheme These results distinguish this work from the early work signiﬁcantly In all our proposed scheme provides a valuable alternative for delay tolerant applications to enhance message conﬁdentiality The paper is organized as follows Section II introduces the related work on security and mobility analysis An overview of the Time-Based Message Dissemination Scheme TBDS is given in Section III Analysis and strategies are presented in Section IV Simulation results are reported in Section V Section VI concludes the paper II R ELATED W ORK In recently years several schemes have been proposed which use the principle of multiple shares to achieve security in mobile ad hoc networks A secure data transmission scheme based on Rabin’s Information Dispersal Algorithm IDA w a s p roposed in 16 In this scheme dispersed message pieces are routed simultaneously through a set of node-disjoint paths The destination node reconstructs the message after receiving sufﬁcient pieces The authors discussed how the source can adjust the path set based on feedback from the destination so that the protocol can remain effective in an ever changing network A similar scheme that is based on Shamir’s secret sharing technique w a s p roposed in 13 M essage is divided into multiple shares and sent simultaneously through multiple independent paths The authors discussed how to split message so that maximum security can be obtained and how to design an effective multipath routing algorithm The SMT routing protocol  makes use of the redundancy and low-cost encoding of the available multi-pathes In t he authors p ropose a secure routing scheme in an untrustworthy environment which can detect the threat of malicious behavior and resist the attack of colluding malicious nodes Our scheme is different from the above work These schemes utilize spatial redundancy They can be used in scenarios where multi-path exists On the other hand our work uses temporal multi-path to secure data transmission It can be used in scenarios where delay can be tolerated or where multi-path does not exist or hard to nd as in a sparse network or in a restricted geographical area In addition the scheme of  requires link encryption between neighboring nodes the cost of which is high If there is no link layer encryption it will be easy for an adversary to compromise a message since it can hear all shares when it approaches the source Our scheme does not make such an assumption In addition this paper studies the strategies of sending the shares it can work with the early work for secure route discover Several early work have analyzed various mobility models to understand their spatial graph properties and relation to radio interferences These results help to demonstrate mobility’s impact on MANET performance and to improve protocol design In a mobility assisted information diffusion protocol is proposed where historical records of encountered nodes are analyzed and used in the protocol The paper analyzes how the expected number of encountered nodes changes over time The statistic properties of link lifetime link change interarrival time path duration etc are analyzed in   T he results are h elpful for d esigning efﬁcient proactive routing protocols The analysis on multi-path routing has been discussed in  3 Under the conditions of several available paths and corresponding probabilities of successful transmissions the paper provides analytical framework that nds the packet allocation policy to maximize the probability of reconstructing the original information at receiver III O VERVIEW OF T IME B ASED M ESSAGE D ISSEMINATION S CHEME The Time-Based Message Dissemination Scheme TBDS works for networks where adversary eavesdrops wireless transmissions passively T he attack ers d o not collude to monitor all the network trafﬁc They can not follow an active transmitting node continuously due to the lack of localization techniques and visual assistance and its own motion intension That means the adversary’s path is not correlated with any other node at a particular transmission interval 


3 An original message is divided into multiple shares using threshold secret sharing scheme before transmission Then each share is sent at different time instances through different paths Any MANET routing protocol works here to obtain the routing path for the speciﬁc time instance To divide a message a  k n  threshold secret sharing scheme  can be used w hich di vides a secret into n shares The secret can be reconstructed from k or more shares but with less than k shares absolutely no information about the secret is disclosed We also call it  k  n r k out of n secret share scheme Readers are referred to Shamir’s original paper  I n t his p aper  we also use the term a packet to mean a share Thus the promise of the scheme is that when an attacker hears less then k shares the message is safe Figure 1 shows that the source node S sends three shares at different times to the receiver R  The trajectories of both the source and the destination nodes are shown as well as the three possible different routing paths when S sends the three shares The success of the scheme relies on the assumption that intermediate nodes are different along the paths and in the surroundings of the intermediate nodes If the time interval between the shares is carefully conﬁgured the nodes relaying/overhearing shares are different with high probability such a scheme is secure and realistic Given the adversary model for any other node to acquire enough shares it must happen to be around or on enough relaying paths Since the node lacks the ability of persistent tracking its chance of hearing enough shares is very low This scheme does not speciﬁcally require cryptographic operations on message transmissions When a mobile network has built some security mechanisms it can co-exist with them and strengthen the security of message delivery The security of the time-based message dissemination scheme is analyzed based on nodes occurrences in geographic areas that surrounds the routing path using the radio transmission range Based on isotropic random walk mobility model the probabilities that a node can hear enough  k out of n  shares are negligible IV S ENDER S TRATEGY A NALYSIS In the time-based message dissemination scheme TBDS the key design issue is the selections of the time interval between sending two shares consecutively and the number of shares sending at each time instant The TBDS scheme makes use of paths at different times to transmit shares when the sender moves In other words one share or a few shares will be sent from the sender at different times until all the shares are sent Fig 1 TBDS transmission scheme The blue and red rectangles respectively represent the receiver and sender At each transmission period the sender will transmit a part of the shares to receiver The challenge is that the legitimate nodes can not detect eavesdroppers due to their passive attacking behavior Thus the sender will simply treat all the nodes other than the receiver as potential attackers Such an assumption makes the decision making at the sender extremely hard In this paper we explore intuitive hints and global knowledge to help design guidance to senders For example the sender could try to avoid a particular node to appear in its neighborhood too many times when it sends shares Such information can be obtained from its neighbor list More over without the knowledge about who is an adversary the sender will use the status of link changes which is an indication of network dynamics as a hint for security The probability of link change in a neighborhood will help us to infer the chance of being continuously eavesdropped and to construct a secure transmission scheme When there is a higher probability of link change during a certain time period there is a lower probability of being continuously eavesdropped and the sender could dispatch more packets Whereas less or no packet would be sent in the period There are two parameters in the scheme transmission interval T between two consecutive transmissions and the total delay Z The total delay Z is the time elapsed at the sender in sending all the shares from the rst to the last It will be divided into several transmission intervals each with a length of T  At the beginning of each interval a number of packets are sent depending on the strategies we discuss here We study two situations in this section 1 application has no demand on the upper bound of the total delay Z  and 2 application has a demand on the bound of the total delay Z  In the paper we assume that the nodes are uniformly distributed in the network and they follow the same mobility pattern We denote R to be the transmission range and  as the density of nodes in the network 


4 A Without delay bound Without a time limit on how long it should take to send all these shares the sender will choose to dispatch shares at times that it believes to be safe When the sender initiates a transmission it is reasonable to follow the rule that the more frequently the link changes the lower the probability of being eavesdropped by a certain adversary A few early work has studied the distribution of the link-change interarrival time and reported the result as approximate exponential expression with the mean link change rate   T hus t he probability of x link changes in time t is p x  t   t  x e   t   x   The parameter  can be obtained based on speed transmission radius and average density of nodes according to the paper  Thus the number of link change increases as the transmission interval extends As mentioned earlier the sender uses x  the number of link changes in its neighborhood as an indicator for the probability of secure transmission When such changes exceed a desired threshold set up by the sender it is relatively safe to send packets Let X be the threshold X  R 2  where  is the node density and  is the invariant ratio of the threshold i.e sender sends one or a few share each time after  percentage of the link change So the probability of being safe p s  t  isdeﬁned below when the number of link changes is not less than the threshold X  p s  t   p x  X  t   X  i 0  t  i e   t  i  1 In other words a longer interval brings more link changes and lower unsafe probabilities Given the number of link change threshold X  and assume P is the threshold for the probability of secure transmission we calculate the average transmission interval T below Set p s  t   P wehave 1  X  i 0  t  i e   t  i   P 2 Then the approximate result of t that satisﬁes the equation will be regarded as the transmission interval T  At the beginning of each interval T  the sender will send one packet until all the shares are sent The sender can choose to send a few packets but since total delay is not a concern sending one packet a time is safer According to the simulation of Random Waypoint Mobility model see Section V the estimated link change rate is around 0  25  We plot the calculated transmission intervals with relation to the rate the threshold of link 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Secure Probability Interval Link change rate at 0.25   1 link change 2 link change 3 link change Fig 2 Intervals at rate 0.25 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 20 40 60 80 100 120   Three Link Change Secure Probability Interval    Link Change Rate at 0.1  Link Change Rate at 0.2 Link Change Rate at 0.3 Fig 3 Intervals at three changes change X and the security probability P in the Figures 2 and 3 In fact we can calculate link change rate  based on the instant velocity of the sender using the equations listed in  T hus w hen a node changes its speed its  will be different too In turn a new transmission interval T can be calculated for the next packet This interval dynamics is very useful for the sender to adjust the interval according to its own speed rather than estimating We have used our simulation conﬁguration to generate a similar curve  as those in  T he gure is not included due to space limit We further validate our expectation on the relationship of transmission interval vs the security through a simple simulation The simulation investigates the ability of an arbitrary node hearing enough shares We set threshold secret sharing as  k n 3  5  i.e a message is divided into 5 shares and hearing 3 or more shares will be able to recover the original message So here enough shares means 3 or more shares Three intervals and various mobility are tested Figure 4 shows that when transmission interval increases the percentage of hearing at least 3 shares drops It also shows that when node 


5  0 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 percentage of nodes hearing enough shares speed interval=10 s   interval=30 s   interval=60 s   Fig 4 percentage of nodes hearing enough 3 or more shares drops as node speed increases and as sending interval increases speed increases the percentage of nodes what hear at least 3 shares drops too In practice a larger n and k  should be used when we increase n and k  the hearing probability further decreases B Trade-off with delay bound Although applications using the time-based message dissemination scheme can tolerate long message total delay in collecting the intermittently received shares it is often the case that an application still wants an early reconstruction of the original message The tradeoff is the delay requirement and the achievable security level We study the case that a user will try to balance the total delay and the security risk Two issues are First how to adjust the transmission interval T such that it will reach a certain security level while the sender can still delay as long as the application can tolerate and second given a delay bound what security level can be reached Our work are based on average case analysis The security risk is quantiﬁed by link change rate Let N link-changes be the desired security level For the link change event the density function of interarrival time can be approximated in high accuracy a s f change  t  e  t where  is the mean link change rate which depends on speed range transmission range node density Set a random variable T N for the event of N link changes the interarrival time density function can be calculated as f  t N   N  N  1 t N N  1 e  t N 3 To address the rst issue we assume the total delay is bounded by Z  on average so the allowable transmission interval T max is Z  n where n is the number of shares created by the  k  n  scheme On the other hand the average time for N link-changes will be E  T N   Thus according to the security requirement the transmission interval must at least be E  T N  for average cases denoted as T min Since T max is determined by Z  we assume Z  is conﬁgured reasonably so that the condition T min  T max holds This result also suggests that we can obtain the minimum total delay Z  min for average cases given the security level N  According to Equation 3 E  T N  is N  thus Z  min  n  N  For the second issue when Z  and n are given we can calculate the achievable security level measured in terms of the number of link changes N a  Speciﬁcally N a    Z  n  N a can be used to instruct the sender to dispatch packets In a mobile network where moving speed and node density may change this result is especially useful because  can be a variable in reﬂecting the network condition and the sender can measure its risk V S IMULATION we use NS2 as the simulation platform to validate our schemes In the simulation we adopt AODV routing protocol There are 100 nodes in the network from which we randomly select senders and receivers CBR ow is used to mimic the message shares For each CBR ow the sender dispatchs 10 packets as if the original message is divided into 10 secrete shares CBR sending rate varies to reﬂect the different transmission intervals as a parameter in our simulation The simulation time is conﬁgured based on time needed to send 10 packets CBR starts from 60s to allow warm up We investigate three representative mobility models they include Random Waypoint Mobility model RWP Manhattan Mobility model MHT and Reference Point Group Mobility model RPGM   F or MHT a nd PRGM we use the reviews in the paper that studied their properties  and t he NS2 p ackage p ro vided The d ef ault area 1000 m  1000 m in the NS2 package is used and transmission range is set to 200 m  The sample speeds are used as well For RWP the network area is 1500 m  1500 m  with transmission range 250 m  The motion speed for RWP is randomly picked from 1  20 m/s  Except the sender and the receiver of a particular CBR session the rest are regarded as eavesdroppers During the simulation we collect the number of packets each node overhears The frequency percentage of the nodes hearing different numbers of packets are calculated Figure 5 shows for the RWP model that the percentage of nodes decrease as the number of packets increases especially only very few nodes can hear majority packets sent by the dispatcher In addition the gure illustrates an interesting phenomenon that is caused by the closed-space simulated network eld Comparing the cases of intervals equal to 10s and 60s a rapid decreasing trend and a attened trend are reported 


6  0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 percentage of nodes number of packets Distribution for RWP model interval=10s interval=30s   interval=60s   Fig 5 Histogram of Random Waypoint Model 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 percentage of nodes number of packets Distribution for Manhattan model interval=10s interval=30s   interval=60s   Fig 6 Histogram of Manhattan Model respectively For the former case the total time for the sender to move around is 100s Such a time may result in a small area that is involved in forwarding hence overhearing and overlapping of path footprints exists as well Thus the curve of 10s shows a higher percentage of nodes hearing nothing also a higher percentage of nodes who hear many packets For the case of 60s the total time for the sender to move around is 600s This allows a larger area and more nodes to be involved in the footprints of the paths The chance for overlapping reduces too So there are less nodes hearing nothing and less nodes hearing many For MHT model two by two lanes with four intersections are conﬁgured The two lanes in each direction are more than 300m apart preventing overhearing across lanes Figure 6 shows the frequency distribution of the nodes overhearing the packets Typically the model created a uniform distributions in that a large portion of nodes can hear around two to four shares Figure 7 and 8 show the frequency and deviation for RPGM group mobility model We conﬁgured 10 groups Each CBR ow picks the sender and the receiver randomly from different groups Since the geographic area of a group is 50m with a margin in radius all the nodes in the same group can hear each other For a single CBR pair it is easy to see that most nodes in the source and the destination groups can overhear the packets Also 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 percentage of nodes number of packets Distribution for RPGM model interval=10s interval=30s   interval=60s   Fig 7 Histogram of Reference Point Group Model the group motion feature leads to high likelihood of correlated overhearing i.e when different nodes from the same group are on the paths most nodes of the group will overhear the transmissions These effects can be seen from Figure 7 where the curves are attened or say showing higher percentages compared to the other mobility models at the right end of the x-axis Figure 8 shows large deviations for the most packets cases of 9 and 10 This suggests that a sender needs to know the risk from its own group and the destination group We then performed a new calculation that counts a zero packet for the nodes that overhear transmissions from the source or the receiver of the same group Figure 9 shows the results after recounting the packets more nodes hear no packets less nodes hear 9 or 10 packets and the deviations are reduced Figure 7 also shows that when the interval increases the probabilities of hearing most packets reduce The reason is that when time goes by the formation of a group is lost more nodes move far apart than those in the initial state Thus the correlated overhearing feature is mitigated Figure 8 of deviations also validates this observation by showing smaller deviations when the number of packets increases VI CONCLUSION We present and analyze the strategies for a timebased secure message dissemination scheme TBDS for mobile ad hoc networks In TBDS a message is split into many shares and each share is sent one after another with a certain interval of delay In the paper we analyze the strategies for selecting the intervals in two cases namely the application has no constraint on the total delay and the application has a delay bound We also study the inﬂuence on the security of TBDS from different mobility models using simulations The results show the differences among the models and the practical aspect of the scheme For example sending more shares helps more in Random Waypoint Mobility mode but it 


7  0.1 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 percentage of nodes number of packets Distribution and deviation for RPGM model interval=10s interval=30s   interval=60s   Fig 8 Deviations of Reference Point Group Model 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 percentage of nodes number of packets Distribution and Deviation for RPGM model interval=10s interval=30s   interval=60s   Fig 9 RPGM not Counting Source and Destination Groups is not the case for the Reference Point Group Mobility model if group members could be suspicious In all the analysis and evaluation validate that our scheme is a valuable alternative to enhance message conﬁdentiality R EFERENCES  Z  H  A  T sirigos M ultipath routing i n t he presence of frequent topological changes In IEEE Communication Magazine Nov 2001  A Tsirigos and Z J.Haas A nalysis o f multipath r outing part 1 The effect on the packet delivery ratio IEEE Trans Wireless Commun  3\(1 2004  A Tsirigos and Z J.Haas A nalysis o f multipath r outing part 2 Mitigation of the effects of frequently changing network topologies IEEE Trans Wireless Commun  3\(2 2004  F  B ai N  S adagopan and A  Helmy  I mportant a frame w o rk to systematically analyze the impact of mobility on performance of routing protocols for adhoc networks In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2003  pages 825–835 IEEE March 2003  D  B alf a nz D  K  S metters P  S te w a rt a nd H C W ong T a lking to strangers Authentication in ad-hoc wireless networks In NDSS  2002  S  C apkun L Butty  an and J.-P Hubaux Self-organized publickey management for mobile ad hoc networks IEEE Trans Mob Comput  2\(1 2003  S  C apkun J.-P  H ubaux and L  B uttyan M obility helps security in ad hoc networks In MobiHoc 03 Proceedings of the 4th ACM international symposium on Mobile ad hoc networking  computing  pages 46–56 New York NY USA 2003 ACM Press  H  C han A Perrig and D  X  S ong Random k e y p redistrib u tion schemes for sensor networks In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy  pages 197 2003  L  E schenauer a nd V  D Gligor  A k e y-management scheme for distributed sensor networks In ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security  pages 41–47 2002  X Hong M Gerla G  P ei a nd C.-C C hiang A g roup mobility model for ad hoc wireless networks In Proceedings of the 2nd ACM international workshop on Modeling analysis and simulation of wireless and mobile systems MSWiM 99  pages 53–60 ACM August 1999  J.-P  H ubaux L Buttyan and S  C apkun The quest for s ecurity in mobile ad hoc networks In MobiHoc 01 Proceedings of the 2nd ACM international symposium on Mobile ad hoc networking  computing  pages 146–155 New York NY USA 2001 ACM Press  J H K W u  P erformance study of a multipath r outing m ethod for wireless mobile ad hoc networks In the 9th international symposium on modeling analysis and simulation of computer and telecommunication system  2001  W  Lou W  Liu and Y  F ang Spread e nhancing d ata c onﬁdentiality in mobile ad hoc networks In INFOCOM 2004  pages 2404–2413 Hong Kong China March 2004 IEEE  H Luo J K ong P  Zerfos S Lu a nd L Zhang Ursa ubiquitous and robust access control for mobile ad hoc networks IEEE/ACM Trans Netw  12\(6 2004  F  N.Sadagopan a nd A.Helmy  T he important frame w o rk for analyzing the impact of mobility on performance of routing for ad hoc network Elsevier Ad Hoc Networks  1 2003  P  P a padimitratos and Z  J  Haas S ecure data transmission in mobile ad hoc networks In WiSe 03 Proceedings of the 2003 ACM workshop on Wireless security  pages 41–50 New York NY USA 2003 ACM Press  P  P a padimistratos a nd Z.J.Haas S ecure message transmission in mobile ad hoc networks Elsvier Ad Hoc Networks  1:193–209 2003  Q.Zheng X.Hong J.Liu and L T ang A s ecure data transmission scheme for mobile ad hoc networks In IEEE Global Communication conference  2007  M O Rabin Ef cient dispersal o f i nformation f or security  load balancing and fault tolerance J ACM  36\(2 1989  B Raduno vic C Gkantsidis P  K e y  a nd P  Rodriguez An optimization framework for opportunistic multipath routing in wireless mesh networks In 27th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications INFOCOM 2008  AZ,USA April 2008  M G S-J Lee Split multipath r outing w ith m aximally disjoint paths in ad hoc networks In ICCí01  2001  P  Samar a nd S B.W  Link dynamics and p rotocol d esign in a multihop mobile environment IEEE Trans On Mobile Computing  5\(9 2006  A Shamir  H o w to share a s ecret Commun ACM  22\(11 613 1979  F  Stajano a nd R J Anderson The r esurrecting duckling Security issues for ad-hoc wireless networks In Security Protocols Workshop  pages 172–194 1999  T  Ghosh a nd N.Pissinou T o w a rds d esigning a t rusted routing solution in mobile ad hoc networks Mobile Networks and Applications  10:985–995 2005  W  W a ng and M  Z hao Joint e f f ects o f r adio channels and node mobility on link dynamics in wireless networks In Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM 2008 Phoenix AZ USA April 2008  2008  L Zhou F  B Schneider  a nd R V  Renesse C oca A s ecure distributed online certiﬁcation authority ACM Trans Comput Syst  20\(4 2002 


  8  Figure 4. SHIELDOSE-2 Calculation for Program III   Figure 5.  Plot of several annual sample s of daily upset data.  A scaled versio n of the sunspot cycle, relevant CMEs and scaled accumulated total ionizing dose have been overlaid, showing potential co ntributions to the linearly increasing number of upsets 


  9   Figure 6. Error Rate and Sun Spot Activity Table 4. Summary of SSR upset rates and mission information.  Please note that the CREME96/Ac tual Upset rate ratio is based on actual upset rates versus p redicted upset rates from actual space weather Program Memory Type On Orbit Upsets Correctable Errors bit-day Predicted CREME96 Upset Rate per bit-day Ratio of Predicted CREME96 to On Orbit Upsets Shielding Assumption mils Al Approx Altitude km Approx Inclination deg I Samsung 64 Mb 1.55E-9 1.58E-8 10.20 150 600 25 II Samsung 64 Mb 4.44E-8 5.60E-8 1.26 150 850 100 III Samsung 64 Mb 2.93-8 3.15E-8 1.08 125 700 100 IV Samsung 128 Mb 2.15E-10 1.23E-9 5.72 150 325 50 V Hitachi 256 Mb 1.02E-11 6.29E-11 6.16 150 na na   


  10 Table 5. Ratios of CREME96 predicted upsets / Actual upsets as a function of shielding thickness.  Increased shielding indicates a more realistic prediction of on orbit rates Mils Aluminum Program I Program II Program III 150 10.20 1.26 1.0 5 200 9.8 5 1.20 1.01 300 9.37 1.13 0.9 5  Both sensitive volume assumptions and shielding assumptions used in CREME96 have been explored as discussed in this report.  Sensitive volume for earth orbiting spacecraft which transit thr ough the Van Allen belts is negligible compared to trapped protons. Most of the data presented used 150 mil shielding as indicated in Table 4  When other thicknesses, ranging from 150 mils to 400 mils were explored as shown in Table 5 less than a 17% change was observed in the predicted upset rate.  A minor difference between the observed and the predicted number of upsets for the majority of the programs analyzed indicates that the models are relatively accurate in predicting upset rates even after the SV and shielding assumptions were explored. SEAKR Engineering has ongoing research underway to explore radiation effects associated with these and hi gher density DRAM memories B IOGRAPHY  Chris Miller is the Director of Space Programs at SEAKR Engineering.  Chris received his MBA in Finance from the University of Denver in 1990 and his B.S in Electrical Engineering from Colorado State University in 1984.  His professional experience includes spacecraft desi gn, integration, test, and mission operations at Martin Marietta \(now Lockheed Martin\Science Wind Polar, and Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft as well as managing multiple unit level design, build, and test programs of Solid State Recorder and Avionics subsystems at SEAKR Engineering Russ Owen is a Radiation Effects Engineer at SEAKR Engineering, Inc.  His interests include both natural space and strategic hardening of electronic systems and development of radiation test systems and methodologies Russ received his M.S. in Solid State Electrical Engineering from the Boston University in 2006, and his B.E. in Electrical Engineering from Vanderbilt University in 2000 His academic research focu sed on III-V photo-detector design, modeling, and simulation Matthew Rose is a Radiation Effects Engineer at SEAKR Engineering, Inc Matt received his Masters of Science in Microwave Engineering from the University of Kansas. He has worked in the satellite and commercial electronics field for 14 years at Hughes Space and Communications, Skyworks, Lucix, and SEAKR Engineering Paul M. Rutt is a Senior Scientist and Manager of Design Assurance and Radiation Effects at SEAKR Engineering Inc. Paul received a Ph.D. in Experimental Nuclear Physics from William and Mary in 1993, a M.S. in Physics from Michigan State University in 1988, and a B.S in Applied Physics from Xavier University in 1986. Paul's research interests include SEE mitigation in ASIC technologies and strategies for the radiation qualification of COTS electronics for use in space applications Justin J. Schaefer is a Radiation Effects Engineer at SEAKR Engineering, Inc Justin received his M.S. in Astronomy from the University of Florida in 2006, and his B.S. in Physics from the University of Wyoming in 2003.  His academic research encompassed multiwavelength observational astronomy of stellar, galactic and extra-galactic objects, literature and database research and modeling of astrophysical systems.  Justin's current research interests include the study and modeling of local space weather to predict SEE proba bilities for space systems, SEE mitigation strategies and the development of radiation characterization methods and test platforms for COTS integrated circuits Ian A. Troxel is the Future Systems Architect at SEAKR Engi neering, Inc.  Ian received his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Florida in 2006, where his graduate research focused on developing fault tolerance a nd application management services for embedded space systems.  Ian\222s research interests include fault tolerance strategies for nextgeneration processor systems, developing characterization methods for radiation accepta nce testing of advanced processors and the design of optical interconnects for embedded space systems R EFERENCES   Cosm ic Ray Effects on Micro Electronics CREME96 https://creme96.nrl.navy.mil    NASA, \2232006 NASA St rat e gi c Pl an,\224 NP-200602-423-HQ, NASA Headquarters, Washington D.C February 2006 


  11   C  M a rchant  D. East i n and R Ferguson Upgrading the US Space Shuttle fleet with a New 'Smart Cockpit Proc. Digital Avionics Systems Conference DASC Daytona Beach, FL October 14-18, 2001 4 L. Ad am s, K. Ch ao M. Feh r in g e r C Miller P Murray, \223Challenges in Implementing Commercial NonVolatile Memory in Spacecraf t Solid State Recorders,\224 Proc. Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium  Arlington, VA, November 15, 2000  Space Environm ent Inform ation System  SPENVIS\a.be   R  Koga S. C r ai n, J. George, S. LaLum ondi ere, K Crawford, P. Yu, and V. Tran, \223Variability in Measured SEE Sensitivity Associated with Design and Fabrication Iterations\224  IEEE NSREC REDW 2003   B G. Henson, P.T. M c Donal d and W J St apor 223SDRAM Space Radiation Effects Measurements and Analysis\224  IEEE NSREC REDW 1999   Nat i onal Geophy si cal Dat a Cent er \(NGDC   Nat i onal Oceanographi c and At m o spheri c Administration \(NOAA eather Predictions SPE.txt   Sol a r and Hel i o spheri c Observat ory    I Troxel M Fehri nger, and M C h enowet h 223Achieving Multipurpose Space Imaging with the ARTEMIS Reconfigurable Payload Processor,\224 Proc Aerospace Conference Big Sky, MT, March 1-8, 2008   Ian Troxel Paul  M u rray, and Dave Jungkind Achieving Fault-Tolerant Spaceborne Computing with Commercial Components Proc. Workshop on FaultTolerant Spaceborne Computing Employing New Technologies Sandia National Labs, Albuquerque, NM May 28-30, 2008   C Poi v ey G. Gee, J. B a rt h, K LaB e l  and H Safren, \223Lessons Learned from Radiation Induced Effects on Solid State Recorders \(SSR\ories\224 Draft 12 2002   Sam s ung KM 44V16000 seri es dat a sheet    Sam s ung KM 44S32030 seri es dat a sheet   


  12  


REFERENCES 1 Steinberg A 2000 Data Fusion System Engineering International Society of Information Fusion 2]Klein L 1999 Sensor and Data Fusion Concepts and Applications 2nd ed SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham WA 3]Gruber T 1993 A Translation Approach to Portable Ontologies Knowledge Acquisition 5\(2 199-220 4]Boury-Brisset A 2003 Ontology-based Approach for Information Fusion International Society of Information Fusion 5 Martins J and Pinto H 2004 Ontologies How can they be built Knowledge and Information Systems Springer-Verlag London 14 de Weck 0 and Simchi-Levi D 2006 HaughtonMars Project Expedition 2005 Interplanetary Supply Chain Management and Logistics Architectures MITINASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate and Research  Technology Program NASA/TP-2006214196 15 Kobayashi K Munekata F and Watanabe K 1994 Accurate navigation via differential GPS and vehicle local sensors in Proc IEEE Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 9-16 16 Mirabadi A Mort N and Schmid F 1996 Application of sensor fusion to railway systems in Proc IEEE/SICE/RSJ Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 185-192 17 Luo R Chih-Chen Y and Su K 2002 Multi-sensor Fusion and Integration Approaches and Future Research Directions IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 2 No 2 pp 102119 6 Van Heist G Schreiber A and Wielinga B 1997 Using explicit ontologies in KBS development Int J Hum Computer Stud 46\(2/3 pp 183-292 7 Guarino N 1998 Formal ontology and information systems In Guarino N ed Formal ontology in information systems IOS Press Amsterdam pp.3-15 8 Wald L 1999 Some Terms of Reference in Data Fusion IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol 37 No 3 9 Waltz E and Llinas J 1990 Multi sensor Data Fusion Artech House Norwood MIA 10 Bowman C 2004 The Dual Node Network DNN Data Fusion  Resource Management DF&RM Architecture AIAA Intelligent Systems Conference Chicago 11 Hall D and Llinas J 1997 An Introduction to Multisensor Data Fusion IEEE Proceedings Vol 85 No 1 12 Russell S and P Norvig 2003 Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach 2nd ed Pearson Education Inc New Jersey 13 Lin G et al 2005 Transforming the military through sense and respond IBM Business Consulting Services White Paper IBM Global Services Somers NY BIOGRAPHY Atif Mirza is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton He specializes in corporate strategy and operations advisory for clients in the Global Aerospace and Defense Practice Prior to joining Booz Allen Mr Mirza was a graduate student at MIT where he was a System Design and Management Fellow in the Engineering Systems Division He holds a joint SM degree in Engineering and Management from MIT/Sloan and a BEng with Honors in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Edinburgh Scotland 13 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


