A Model-based Approach to Aid the Development of e-Government Projects in Real-life Setting Focusing on Stakeholder Value   Zsófia Kräussl VU University Amsterdam Department of Information Systems and Logistics De Boelelaan 1105 1081 HV Amsterdam zderzsi@feweb.vu.nl   Yao-Hua Tan VU University Amsterdam Department of Information Systems and Logistics De Boelelaan 1105 1081 HV Amsterdam ytan@feweb.vu.nl 
  Jaap Gordijn VU University Amsterdam Business Informatics Group De Boelelaan 1081a 1081 HV Amsterdam gordijn@cs.vu.nl  Abstract  Recently, there has been a lot of effort put into modernizing the public sector using advanced information technology. The resulting e-government initiatives offer numerous benefits for stakeholders from both private and public sectors, and require solid IT support for operation. The same phenomenon holds for e-customs that we analyze in this paper. In the reallife setting different IT-driven concerns emerge and 
influence the foreseen stakeholder benefits and, as a result, might violate the success of e-customs Therefore, it is essential to explore and to balance the effects of such concerns already during the development phase while constantly considering stakeholder value. We propose a constructive, modelbased approach to aid such investigations   1. Introduction  In this paper we consider the introduction of a novel IT-intensive redesign of customs procedures in a real-life setting based on its successful piloting Customs require complex procedures and associated documents. As the piloting concluded, handling such 
procedures and documents can be supported by information technology, which in turn can be seen as a series of orchestrated e-ser vices themselv es, relying heavily on the underlying information technology that realizes such e-services In contrast to the piloting, pre-designed environment, in a real-life setting the proposed ecustoms procedures operate in a dynamically forming emerging business network. The introduction of innovative procedures often causes concerns on longterm sustainability of such networks, since the 
realization of the foreseen stakeholder value can face unpredicted complexities in reality. First, the execution  of e-customs requires a joint collaboration of stakeholders from the private and public sector, with different incentives to participate in the network \(e.g reduction of administrative burden and costs for exporters, profit and competitive advantage for eservice providers, transparency of data for governmental authorities\To preserve stakeholder value in such an emerging setting, these incentives 
should be well-aligned, i.e. there should be a coherent understanding of expected benefits of different stakeholders econ d  th e realization of e-customs procedures relies heavily on IT. The consumption of different e-services and often, the implementation of an alternative IT architecture are needed, and, as a consequence, it comes at a certain cost. The challenge is to find a balanced solution between the foreseen value of the proposed e-customs initiatives and the underlying IT architecture that does not violate the 
incentives to join the network. Third, as the introduction of e-customs procedures calls for the ITintensive redesign of the traditional customs procedures among the whole supply chain, it is essential to find an interoperable solution that coops with the diversity among the existing ERP infrastructure of stakeholders and supports the data sharing along the supply chain. In addition, the proper balancing of stakeholder value and the IT architecture is essential not only per each participating organization, but also, with respect to the network of 
stakeholders of the supply chain 2  To reason over the real-life potentials of egovernment projects, they should be considered from at least two perspectives: \(1\usiness value perspective, and \(2\ an information technology perspective. The business value perspective captures and aligns foreseen benefits that different stakeholders expect by employing the proposed e-customs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


initiatives, and articulates wh ether there are any violating conflicts appearing during their realization The information technology perspective captures whether there exists an economically and technically feasible solution that realizes the proposed e-customs procedures As we argue, introducing e-customs worldwide results in different business and IT-driven concerns that might remain hidden in piloted setting and have impact on stakeholder value. As a consequence these concerns could violate the successful enrollment of ecustoms procedures. Thus, it is essential to explore and to balance these concerns already during its development phase. We propose a model-based approach using e 3 valu n d UM L 13 m odel i ng techniques to articulate and to align such concerns from both \(business value and IT\pectives so that cross-perspective concerns of stakeholder value can be consistently considered In our view, one of the fundamental problems during the development phase of complex, egovernment initiatives is the lack of analytical tools that support the long-term maintenance of stakeholder value from multiple viewpoints \(i.e. from both public and private sector\d perspectives \(i.e. business and IT\The contribution of this paper is that we develop a constructive, value-based approach to aid the realization of e-customs initiatives in real-life setting As we show, such a value-based approach is useful especially in case of a dynamic, emerging business setting, as e-customs initiatives attract stakeholders with different IT infrastructure, adding yet another complexity to the enrollment process The remaining part of this paper is structured as follows. In the next section we describe the fundamentals of our model-based approach. Section 3 introduces our case study, and elaborates on different concerns of a successful enrollment of e-customs initiatives that emerge in a real-life setting. In section 4 we introduce our model-based approach to investigate the impact of emerging concerns on stakeholder value In section 5 we conclude and present our future research initiatives  2. Fundamentals of the model-based approach to aid the development of egovernment projects  In order to explore different impacts that influence foreseen benefits from multiple viewpoints and perspectives, we are seeking for a solution that 1 has a sound conceptual notation to represent and to analyze dynamics of value creation and realization in constellations 2 allows us to address stakeholder value taking different perspectives and viewpoints into account 3 has the capability to quantify different impacts on value, and 4 remains on a low-level of modeling complexity and is easy-to-use To satisfy these requirements, we introduce a joint modeling approach using e 3 valu o r th e bus in e s s value perspective and UML o r th e IT pers pectiv e to enable a more detailed analysis on emerging concerns on stakeholder value. Modeling tools relate business value and IT perspectives, such that emerging concerns on stakeholder value are considered from cross-perspective setting. Our approach aims to support finding a balanced solution to resolve possible conflicts on stakeholder value that emerge during the real-life implementation of IT-intensive services, from multiple perspectives and viewpoints The e 3 value modeling tool 1 and the underlying methodology proved to be suitable to address and analyze value in e-business networks \(s  9  an T h e m e t h odology  allo w s artic u l ati n g actors of e-business network creating and exchanging objects e.g. services, money\ of value. The e 3 value tool built on these fundamentals allows visually representing business networks, where different stakeholders perform value activities and engage in business transactions exchanging objects of value. Originally the e 3 value methodology has been developed to analyze long-term economic sustainability for all actors involved. Investment costs and other valuation functions, expressed in monetary terms, can be assigned to value activities and transactions, allowing a quantitative assessment of value performance of a certain business configuration. Based on the valuation functions, profitability sheets of stakeholders can be generated that provide a net cash flow analysis of the financial value impact. However, we will show that the modeling constructs of e 3 value are also of use to formalize the value proposition that stakeholders expect from e-customs initiatives, and help to explore concerns that might violate its realization. In addition modeling constructs can be used to simulate different value propositions under different network characteristics, which is an especially useful feature in an emerging business setting where different incentives exist to enroll e-customs initiatives The UML modeling technique \(see e.g. [6 13   used to represent the underlying information system of the value constellation. We intend to use UML diagrams to formalize IT-specific concerns on stakeholder value. For instance, UML deployment diagrams describe the system architecture in terms of hard- and software components, and communication   1 The e 3 value tool can be downloaded for free from http://www.e3value.com Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


means between these components. As shown in they are also means to articulate potential investments and expenses as a result of IT design. Moreover, the same work presents a way to relate e 3 value and deployment diagrams via their respective meta models in order to show how these financials influence business value of a constellation  3. Case study: Design of electronic customs procedures for cross-border trade  3.1. The Beer Living Lab  The European Union \(EU\ currently reshaping its customs legislation and practices. One of the underlying reasons is that the increasing excise and value added tax \(VAT\raud in the EU \(as for alcohol it amounts to 1.5 billion yearly, approximately 8\\% of the total excise duties receipts on alcoholic beverages and VAT fraud is estimated to be 10\\% of VAT receipts\ for the need of reshaping existing control mechanisms. However, there is an articulated need by the EU to reduce administrative burden, and so to keep the EU a competitive economic zone. The Beer Living Lab \(BeerLL\s a pilot of the EU-funded ITAIDE 2 project for redesigning these EU customs procedures in the beer industry using advanced information technology, focusing on the export of beer When beer is exported outside the EU, no excise has to be paid by the brewery. However, the brewery has to prove to the national Tax office that the beer left indeed the EU. The current customs procedure to prove that the beer left the EU is paper-based; i.e. numerous paper documents are needed to facilitate customs procedures \(for a more detailed description of the current customs procedures with respect to excise goods s In th e BeerL L pilot it is s h o w n h o w to  replace this paper-based procedure by an electronic procedure, where the proof of export is done by electronic means using innovative e-services. The BeerLL pilot proved to be successful and provided tangible benefits for the participating stakeholders  3.2. IT pillars of the proposed customs redesign  To resolve the contradiction between the reduction of administrative burden and increased security, safety and control requirements, new, innovative e-customs procedures are designed that intensively rely on information technology. To prevent excise fraud   2 ITAIDE is an integrated research project \(Nr.027829\ed by the 6th Framework IST Programme of the European Commission see www.itaide.org electronic customs procedures 1 monitor and secure cross-border shipment 2 provide accessibility to information about shipment and supply chain for audit and control purposes, and 3 provide an electronic proof of export In the BeerLL pilot we explored a possible IT solution for the required customs procedures. The solution relies on two IT-intensive pillars 1 the Tamper-Resistant Embedded Controller \(TREC\ and 2 an advanced service-oriented architecture that facilitates data sharing between the brewery and the Tax&Customs office The TREC is a container-mounted device which tracks the container's precise location, and monitors environmental parameters \(e.g., temperature\d physical state \(e.g., door openi ng\ containers. The TREC is able to store a pre-defined business logic \(e.g the route of containers\d its communication module sends an automatic message if any deviation occurs e.g. change in route\-services leveraging the TREC technology facilitate e-customs procedures by securing, monitoring and reporting cross-border movements of containers, and are of commercial interests. To distribute relevant shipment and supply chain data, the second pillar of the proposed solution is the underlying, service-oriented information system architecture. It embeds databases of breweries and Tax&Customs offices, and includes different IT services that enable data sharing  3.3. Toward the real-life employment of ecustoms  The basis of collaboration among the public and private sector is the expected benefits of the proposed e-customs initiatives, which was successfully preserved and maintained during the pilot \(s However, compared to the pilot setting, the constellation that facilitates e-customs initiatives worldwide would have different business and IT characteristics, which need to be considered and aligned in order to preserve the value performance of stakeholders. In the followings we restrict ourselves to two major, IT-driven concerns that we use to introduce our model-based approach. These concerns and their impact on stakeholder value are illustrated by a causeand-effect diagram s ee Fig u r e 1 The root causes emerge from the two IT pillars of the proposed solution for customs procedure redesign First, all containers that are used for export are equipped with TREC devices in order to trace a specific shipping item \(see #1 in Figure 1\d data sharing on a larger, i.e. worldwide scale requires Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


       Figure 1. Supporting and violating effects of standard-conform architecture redesign, and the resulting conflict on value performance of traders and governmental authorities  standardized mechanisms for data description and data sharing \(see #2\The standardization body, EPCglobal develops proprietary product description standards 3 to facilitate unambiguous product identification EPCGlobal also defines Electronic Product Code Information Services \(EPCIS\which are nonproprietary standards, and describe data sharing mechanisms between different databases of different trading partners. These standards include interfaces for data query and access, and specification of data structures to build up data repositories EPCIS thus defines a service-oriented architecture which actually embeds a distributed data repository of different trading, shipment and governmental parties and is built on standards to enable a unified data management procedure. Local data repositories contain all relevant information that is needed during ecustoms procedures. As a result of standardized mechanisms, EPCIS services that are responsible for information sharing have to be implemented locally by each stakeholder participating in data sharing \(see #4 This effort in local architecture redesign results in additional expenses, i.e. investments and operational costs that might mitigate the benefits offered by the use of e-services maintaining customs procedures To leverage the benefits of the introduced technology, different e-services emerge that locate data worldwide and ensure authorized access among stakeholders form public and private sector. Clearly the use of such services has a positive effect on the foreseen stakeholder value \(see #3\ of the proposed ecustoms initiatives. In the new procedure, EPCGlobal acts as a commercial service provider, besides providing and maintaining the product description standards, it maintains a data locating service and an access authorizing service to facilitate data sharing The resulting business network of the proposed ecustoms initiatives, in contrast to the designed, piloted   3 This product description is based on the product barcode EPCglobal is also the organization that introduced the barcode worldwide  setting, embeds concerns that violate stakeholder value that are not yet presented in a limited setting. The constellation that facilitates e-customs procedures worldwide would consist of an increased number of stakeholders: service providers to facilitate e-customs procedures \(e.g. TREC service provider, EPCGlobal carriers who provide transportation services worldwide, enterprises who are active on the international market, and governmental authorities of different countries. In the followings we use our model-based approach to address the impacts of the explored concerns on the proposed e-customs initiatives while continuously considering and maintaining a satisfying value performance for stakeholders  4. Exploring the potentials of e-customs in real-life setting using the proposed modelbased approach  Figure 1 articulates a conflict situation as a result of contrary impacts on the stakeholder value \(highlighted with dotted oval\while business-driven concerns of e-customs initiatives support the realization of stakeholder value \(i.e. the use of eservices support the realization of foreseen benefits IT-driven concerns \(i.e. local architecture redesign might violate its realization. The challenge with these conflicts is to find an acceptable configuration of the constellation where the supportive effects of business value would not be overbalanced with the negative effects of the underlying IT for its stakeholders involved To support finding a balanced solution, we introduce in the following sections two alternatives for a value constellation that realizes e-customs procedures. To limit our investigations, in this paper we focus our model-based analysis on different financial impacts, i.e. how the need of local architecture redesign influence stakeholder value, and how it might influence the incentives to enroll the proposed e-customs initiatives at the first place  4.2. First alternative: maintaining standardized data sharing mechanisms in-house  In order to simulate a possible trade-off scenario first we drew an e 3 value business value model \(see Figure 2\at is a snapshot of a configuration of the emerging network that realizes e-customs procedures for a one month time frame. Value activity modeling constructs show what operations \(e.g. providing Shipment monitoring service\eholders must  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 Figure 2. The e 3 value model showing a possible configuration of a constellation that facilitates ecustoms procedures  perform to support e-customs procedures. Value transactions between different actors result from these executed operations, and embed incoming and outgoing value objects. The former represents what is of value an actor receives and the latter represents its compensation, which is of a value for an actor in exchange. Incoming value objects presuppose what benefits different stakeholders expect, which can be as an example an outcome of an e-service \(e.g. container state information Figure 2 shows that a Trader operates International trade using EPCIS activity, implying that the trader in-house maintains the standardized mechanisms for data distribution to comply with legal requirements. By facilitating this activity Trader  engages in different value transactions. The A dependency path relates transactions that originate from the consumer need Provide shipment data It splits into two threads explaining that a Trader  consumes transportation services with TREC mounted devices from a Carrier and the related container state information from a TREC service provider  Trader also provides the necessary trade information to Governmental authorities so he can comply with the legal requirements with respect to customs procedures. To facilitate data distribution worldwide Trader pays a fee for subscriber maintenance to EPCGlobal for the issued product standards and standardized data sharing mechanisms see B dependency path Based on the modeled value transactions, the e 3 value modeling tool provides the support to assess the financial value impacts of a Trader By adding valuation formulas expressing financials, it is possible to quantify the value effects and to calculate the net cash flow. As the given example in Figure 2 indicates using TREC mounted containers for transport results in 20 Euro additional costs for a Trader He also pays 0.1 Euro for receiving container state information per transaction, and 10000 Euro for subscriber maintenance To arrive to a sound, transaction-based analysis of value impacts, it is necessary as well to articulate the volume of these value transactions for the given 1 month time frame. It can be expressed by attributing the modeled consumer need by the number of its occurrences. As an example, Figure 2 explains that the A consumer need is set to 3000 indicating that a Trader ships on average 3000 containers that need to go through customs procedures per month. He needs to provide information for each shipment, and as a consequence, each value transaction that this need triggers occurs 3000 times on a monthly basis One shipment however triggers more transactions with respect to container state information, since movement of shipments should be continuously monitored and administrated. The e 3 value modeling tool expresses such multiplicity by including explosion element in the dependency path. As Figure 2 shows, we assume that a Trader invokes TREC e-services on average 20 times for each shipment, resulting in 60000 transactions per month. Similarly, a Trader provides on average 8 times trade information to governmental authorities per shipment, resulting in 24000 transactions per month The value model describes what is of value created and transferred between participating stakeholders in order to maintain value performance of stakeholders Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 Figure 3. A UML deployment diagram that shows the underlying IT architecture of the value constellation employing TREC and EPCIS for data sharing  Moreover, the model shows the volume of value transactions per a given time frame, enabling a transaction-based financial assessment. To analyze the IT-driven costs that are caused by the underlying architecture, we take a similar, model-based approach and draw a UML deployment diagram. Figure 3 depicts the IT architecture on a high-level granularity with the emphasis on addressing additional financial effects Nodes \(Trader, TREC service provider, carrier and governmental authority\ are named after the stakeholders of the constellation, thus correspond to the actors of the e 3 value model in Figure 2. Software components that are named after the value activities of the value model enable value transaction within the constellation by providing and requesting different web services. Assembly connections connect service interfaces and service ports that facilitate value transactions. Nodes are of interest to us because they express ownership of certain software and hardware assets. Focusing on the Trader node, Figure 3 explains that the Trader owns different software assets \(expressed with component modeling construct to facilitate her data management using EPCIS value activity, namely a standardized EPCIS database  component that stores and provides data of interest b  EPCIS for data sharing to maintain the data distribution, i.e. the data query and transfer of data, and c  security management component using digital certificates to ensure encryption and protection of data since distribution of data happens via open channels Figure 3 also explains that Trader offers export data  to, and receives compliance document from Governmental authority to realize the corresponding value transaction shown in Figure 2. As dependencies between different modeling constructs represent, the realization of this value transaction cannot happen without the employed software components The ownership of components and the financial attributes of UML deployment model constructs allow articulating the IT-driven cost effects on the value performance of stakeholders. Figure 3 exemplifies that to implement the necessary IT assets a Trader needs to pay 30000 Euro investment costs. In t  w a s shown how to formally relate UML and e 3 value Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


modeling constructs to enable a more detailed financial value assessment of stakeholders Based on the performed model-based analysis, we articulated different financial effects that influence the expected benefits of Trader Table 1 summarizes our findings. Similar tables can be drawn for the other stakeholders  Table 1. Summary of cost effects for Trader  based on the value and UML models  effect incoming value object effect outgoing value object foreseen costs per month for illustration purposes only cost per transaction transaction volume e 3 value sum container state information fee e 3 value 0,1 60000 6000  transportation with TREC mounted containers fee e 3 value 20 3000 60000  subscriber maintenance fee e 3 value 10000 1 10000  compliance    investment costs of hardware and software UML 30000   4.3. Second alternative: introduction of data warehouse service provider  To balance the negative cost effects, another business model is drawn that shows a different configuration of value transactions. The value model in Figure 4 introduces a Data warehouse service provider It offers the complete data management service to different enterprises, who would like to fulfill their customs obligations electronically as proposed, releasing them from certain financial consequences. In return, enterprises pay a fee for the provided service In such business setting, a Trader acts as one of such enterprises. He pays for transportation services similar to Figure 2, and pays 4 Euro compensation fee per container to Data warehouse service provider for maintaining and distributing trade information. The A  dependency path explains that it is the Data warehouse service provider who consumes the container state information services after each container, and pays for the standards to maintain the necessary data repository for data distribution. As a result, the Data warehouse service provider provides the trade information for Governmental authorities  which in return enables a Trader to comply with the customs procedures Changes in network characteristics imply changes in the underlying IT architecture as well. The aligned IT architecture that accommodates the alternative configuration is represented in Figure 5. It is the Data warehouse service provider who provides trade data  to Governmental authorities thus employs the required software and hardware assets. There is no local effort needed from the Trader to facilitate the EPC-based data sharing mechanisms. Yet, to provide the trade data  Data warehouse provider needs the necessary supply chain information from a Trader  The assembly connection between the corresponding service interface and port represents this requirement Due to data confidentiality, data exchange between Trader and Data warehouse service provider is done via virtual private network, as the UML deployment diagram also indicates As the cardinalities of the nodes illustrate, one Data warehouse service provider maintains supply chain data of more Trader nodes. As such Data warehouse provider acts as a hub that aggregates different data sources and distributes them for customs clearance, implying a more efficient solution for data sharing   Figure 4. An alternative configuration of the constellation, resulting from the outsourcing Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 Table 2. Summary of cost effects for Trader  concluded from the value and UML models of the alternative configuration  effect incoming value object effect outgoing value object foreseen costs per month for illustration purposes only cost per transaction transaction volume e 3 value sum transportation with TREC mounted containers fee e 3 value 20 3000 60000  compliance 4 3000 12000   Similar to the first business setting, we articulated different financial effects that influence the expected benefits of Trader For comparison, Table 2 summarizes the value impacts that are articulated via modeling techniques Based on the volume of business transactions, the alternative solution would in principle cause less financial effects for a Trader However, to explore whether and how the introduction of such data management service would be commercially feasible is a non-trivial task. On one hand, the increasing number of enterprises that would consume the service results in higher profit, which, on the other hand conflicted with higher operational costs Concluding from the value model, these costs depend on average numbers of TREC service invocations that are consumer-dependent as the A  dependency path also explains; hence finding this optimum is a complex task. In addition Data warehouse service provider needs to deal with higher investment and operational costs to accommodate the increased intensity of data distribution among governmental authorities. It might appear that over certain trading intensity the Data warehouse service provider needs to reconsider her service offering because her extra operational costs cannot be recovered from the predicted profit As shown, the e 3 value modeling technique allows simulating the volumes of transactions, and enables sensitivity analysis of financial impacts. In this specific financial setting shown in Figure 4 Data warehouse service provider would conclude a positive net cash flow. Assuming the management of data of 20 different enterprises, assuming on average 3000 containers per month for each enterprise, and assuming 4 Euro service    Figure 5. A UML deployment diagram that shows the underlying IT architecture of the alternative  value constellation Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


fee per container would result in 240000 Euro profit for the service provider. Based on the modeled transactions, the profit is contrasted with service fee paid for subscriber maintenance \(assuming 10000 Euro per month\ and container information Supposed that the service provider requests container state information 20 times after each monitored container, the dependency path would simulate on average a volume of 1200000 transactions per month Assuming the same 0.1 Euro compensation fee as before Data warehouse service provider would pay 120000 Euro service fee for receiving container information  5. Lessons learned and outlook for future research  Concluding from the sensitivity analyses we performed by attributing the e 3 value modeling constructs with different financials, our approach allows articulating an economically feasible scenario for stakeholders involved for a specific time frame The analysis is based on the presupposed volume of transactions that foreseen for the modeled time frame, and is determined by the attributed characteristics \(e.g. occurrences of value transfers\ of the modeled constellation. By refining the financial analysis using the cost consequences of the underlying IT, our modeling approach facilitates a value-based alignment process between business and IT As our presented, model-based exploration of possible alternatives conclude, on one hand the financial evaluation of architecture redesign that is required to execute e-customs procedures might block the incentives of a Trader to join the network thus might violate the sustainability of e-customs on a long run. It is contrasted on the other hand with an alternative business design, where these cost factors are re-allocated as a result of outsourcing. The challenge is to find the cost-benefit optimum between implementing the necessary architecture elements inhouse, and consuming different e-services, and outsourcing the data management and related services to the data warehouse provider Typically an outsourced solution would on the one hand have positive financial consequences, as it is also supported via the models. On the other hand outsourcing would imply other technical problems like trust and data security between service provider and enterprises. It might appear that due to e.g. data confidentiality outsourcing would not provide sufficient benefits, i.e. would result in negative value impacts, even if these extra IT costs would significantly decrease. Our model-based analysis currently focuses on the financial concerns only, not yet incorporates other, non-financial value impacts Another concern is the technical feasibility of the proposed architectural solution. In our analysis we only tackled the financial consequences of certain volume of transactions, assuming that there exists a technically feasible solution that accommodates the predicted volume. However, the existence of a reliable IT system that accommodates the increased number of invocations is non-trivial. This can especially be crucial for service providers in order to preserve the level of their service quality. To address such technical concerns, the employed modeling techniques are not suitable; we need to extend our approach to address behavioral concerns \(think of e.g. flexibility\ of the analyzed information system architecture, in conjunction with our model-based approach. Another line of research is the development of guidelines that help making decisions for business and information systems architects while exploring commercial potentials of an e-service offering, which are then expressed using the integrated models we have proposed   6. References  1 Z. B a i d a  B  R u k a nov a  J  L i u, a nd Y  H  T a n  Preserving Control in Trade Procedure Redesign - The Beer Living Lab Electronic Markets, 2008, 18\(1\pp. 53 64  2 Zs. Derzsi, an d J G o rd ijn  A Framework for Business/IT Alignment in Networked Value Constellations In Proceedings of the workshops of the 18th International Conference on Advanced Information Systems Engineering, T. Latour and M. Petit \(Eds.\mur University Press, Belgium, 2006   Zs Derzsi J  G o rd ijn  K Ko k  H Akk e r m an s an d Y H  Tan Assessing feasibility of IT-enabled networked value constellations: A case study in the electricity sector  Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Advanced Information Systems Engineering, J. Krogstie A. L., Opdahl and G. Sindre \(Eds.\Springer, LNCS Heidelberg, 2007  4 DG  T A X UD  Electronic Customs Multi-Annual Strategic Plan \(MASP Rev 7 Working document TAXUD/477/2004 - Rev. 7 EN, 24 European Commission, Taxation and Customs Union, May 2006  5 EU Com m is s i on EU coherent strategy against fiscal fraud frequently asked questions MEMO/06/221 Brussels, May 2006  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


6 Fow l e r M., UML Distille d: A Brie f  G u ide to the  Standard Object Modeling Language, Addison-Wesley Professional, Boston, US., 2003   J G o rd i j n  and H A k ker m a n s  e3-value: Design and Evaluation of e-Business Models IEEE Intelligent Systems, 2001, 16\(4\, pp. 11-17   J G o rd i j n  an d H Akker m an s  Value-based requirements engineering: Exploring innovative ecommerce ideas Requirements Engineering Journal 2003, 8\(2\, pp. 114 134   J G o rd i j n  and H A kker m a n s  Business models for distributed energy resources in a liberalized market environment The Electric Power Systems Research Journal, 2007, 77\(9\ 1178-1188  10 Ka n S.H Me tric s a n d M ode ls in Sof t w a re Qua lit y  Engineering, Addison-Wesley Professional, Boston, US 2002  11  V  Kartsev a J G o rd ijn an d Y.H. T a n   Towards a Modelling Tool for Designing Control Mechanisms for Network Organisations International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 2005, 10\(1\, pp. 57-84  12 T a psc o tt, D., T i c o ll, D. a nd L o wy  A Dig ita l C a pita l Harnessing the Power of Business Webs, Nicholas Brealy Publishing, London, UK, 2000  13 U n if ie d Mode li ng L a ng ua g e Supe rs truc ture   http://www.omg.org/docs/formal/05-07-04.pdf, last accessed November 2007  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Interfaces http://deepspace.jpl.nasa.gov/dsndocs/810005/104/104B.pdf  Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena CA August 1 2005  Da v arian F  Shambayati S Slobin S 223Deep Space Ka-Band Link Management and the MRO Demonstration Past Statistics versus Forecasting Proceedings of IEEE  Vol 92 No 12  pp 1877-1894 December 2004  Shambayati S eather Related Continuity and Completeness on Deep Space Ka-band Links Statistics and Forecasting IEEE Aerospace Conference 2006  pp 18 Big Sky Montana March 5-11 2006  Shambayati S Border  J S Morabito D D and Mendoza R 223MRO Ka-band Demonstration Cruise Phase Lessons Learned IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  pp.1-17 Big Sky Montana March 4-10 2007  Shambayati S Morabito D D Border  J S Da v ar ian F Lee D K Mendoza R Britcliffe M and Weinreb S 223Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Ka-band 32 GHz Demonstration Cruise Phase Operations AIAA SpaceOps Conference 2006  pp 1-26 Rome Italy June 19-23 2006 B IOGRAPHY Shervin Shambayati obtained his Bachelors of Science degree in Applied Mathematics and Engineering in 1989 from California State University Northridge Subsequently he obtained his MSEE Engineer's Degree and Ph.D from University of California Los Angeles in 1991 1993 and 2002 respectively In 1993 Dr Shambayati joined the Deep Space Communications Systems Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory where he took part in development and testing of Deep Space Network's Galileo Telemetry receiver DGT In 1997 Dr Shambayati joined the Information Processing Group at JPL where he has been working ever since With that group Dr Shambayati has been involved in various projects including Mars Global Surveyor's Ka-Band Link Experiment II Deep Space 1 Ka-band testing 70m antenna Ka-band Task and the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter Ka-band Demonstration for which he was the Principal Invsetigator His current research interests and activities include evaluating the effects of weather outages on the spacecraft resources Ka-band weather forecasting Ka-band link design and end-to-end system architecture studies for implementation of Ka-band services in NASA's Deep Space Network 11 


Implant Application 1 Low level analog signal Stimulation Sensor interface Signal digitized and formatted Transmitter Application  receiver controller with MAC RF encoded packets of data Data packets organised into function Change response or cause direct stimulation 


Product Design and Manufacture 225 Work with end product manufacturer Each design is unique 225 No off the peg solution 225 Thorough testing during product development 225 Work with component suppliers 225 World class manufacturing capability 225 Post manufacture test and burn in 225 Reliable parts shipped on time NO SURPRISES NO CHANGES NOTHING EXCITINGI 


Module Encapsulated ZL70101 Crystal Matching network Antenna connection 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


