Online Gaming to Apply for Jobs the Impact of Self- and E-Assessment on Staff Recruitment  Sven Laumer 1 Alexander von Stetten 1 Andreas Eckhardt 2 Tim Weitzel 1   1 Otto-Friedrich University Bamberg Feldkirchenstraﬂe 21 96052 Bamberg, Germany laumer | vonstetten | weitzel}@is-bamberg.de  2 Goethe University Frankfurt a. Main Mertonstraﬂe 17 
D-60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany eckhardt@is-frankfurt.de   Abstract   The process of recruiting employees has changed since the internet entered enterprises. From simply posting job ads and information on the internet to online application forms and holistic e-recruiting system architectures the way of recruiting has changed a lot. With the introduction of virtual worlds and the increasing number of online games this paper is discussing the next step of e-recruiting online games to apply for jobs. With a single explorative case study the implementation of self- and 
e-assessment as online games could be explained Furthermore with an SEM based on the empirical data of a survey with the Fortune 1,000 companies in Germany \(response rate 19.1%\ the motivation of companies to use online games can be provided. Perceived qua lity improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings as well as perceived usefulness and per ceived ease of use are the most important drivers for companies intending to use online games in staff recruitment   1. Introduction  Do you remember the last time you applied for a 
job? Most of us would have looked for job ads, sent a paper-based application, went to job interview and finally hopefully been employed by the company However, this classical way of staff recruitment has changed since companies started to use the internet especially e-recruiting. For example Keim and Weitzel analyzed the employer and job seeker behavior on the IT labor market and showed that job ads are mainly posted on the internet, job seekers apply for jobs predominately using online application 
forms or e-mail and job seekers more and more introduce themselves by storing their resumes in a CV database employers can search in 20 07  Lee suggested a holistic e-recruiting system architecture and pointed out that recruiting activities are mainly supported by information system and especially by the intern  The next step in the development of the internet was the introduction of virtual worlds. Practitioners as well as researcher are discussing the opportunities 
virtual worlds might offer to companies and customers. In 2007 the DATA BASE for Advances in Information Systems published a special issue on Virtual Worlds and in 2008 an MISQ call for a special issue of virtual worlds encourages the community to research the opportunities of virtual worlds  A first approach how virtual worlds can be integrated in a company s recruiting strategy is explained by Laumer et al c cordin g to  
Faerber et al. the steps of a recruiting process are employer branding, candidate attraction, applicant tracking, pre- and final selection e d on t h is concept a virtual world can be used as an interesting and innovative platform for employer branding to attract potential candidates, to provide information about the company and to generate applications and are therefore part of the long-term candidate attraction ph r th e selection ph a s e  Bartram discusses the concept to integrate eassessments in a virtual world as structured 
assessments that can be completed online by job seekers and can support the matching between candidates skills and job requirem  Moreover Griffiths et al. point out that the Internet has become a new medium in which players can play videogames and that the game clientele is very much an adult profile e r res e arch ers such as Chappell et al. alert that players and exProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


players appear to be addicted  e v e r, as Steinkueh Un der w ood et al. arg u e th at  digital technologies have real potential as educational tools, but those technologies are not free of risks   Based on these approaches we will address the following research questions in an organizational setting  1  How can online gaming be used to support the selection of candidates during the recruiting process 2  Why do companies want to use online games  We will answer these questions by providing a two step approach. At first we will discuss the theoretical and practical background of online games in recruiting by providing results of a literature review of self- and e-assessment as well as an explorative case study with one of the worldwide largest publishing houses. In a second step based on these results we develop and validate a structural equation model \(SEM\ to discuss influencing factors for companies intending to use self- and eassessment  The paper proceeds as follows. In section two the theoretical background of first approaches in self and e-assessment are discussed explicitly. Section three presents the results of the explorative case study with the publishing house and section four the result of the structural equation model \(SEM\alysis. The paper concludes with a discussion of the key findings as well as the limitations and implications  2. Theoretical background  As a first step the theoretical background of self and e-assessment is presented. Based on the literature review and the explorative case study our research model is developed  2.1. Self-assessment in personnel selection  According to Weiss Self-assessment is based on the idea that a question and answer procedure can be devised that will help a person appraise and develop his or her knowledge about a particular topic 3  Accordingly results of self assessment should help a participant to appraise and develop himself or herself In contrast the motivation of Self-Assessment should not be for a person to satisfy others   Self assessment is typically used in the fields of health professions and higher education i de  these two main operational areas self-assessment can also be found in conjunction with personnel selection    Jon e s an d Fletch er  re f e r to research indications that using Self-Assessments for selection may offer benefits at both organizational and individual levels. For example self-selection may be promoted due to self-assessments by encouraging potential candidates for a job vacancy to think about whether they are really suitable and qualified for the job [2   Also in the context of personnel selection Caligiuri and Phillips refer to self-assessments as a component of realistic job previews T h ereby a  realistic job preview is the provision of both favorable and unfavorable job-related information to job candidates order to prov ide th e m  w i th more realistic perceptions of a job In  combination with self-assessment the provided information aids the applicants in self-selecting in accordance with the desired job [3 s s e l f  assessment is also developed to help a participant to appraise himself and test his qualification for a specific job profile, e-assessment is just used to select a small group of adequate candidates out of a bunch of candidates  2.2. E-assessment in personnel selection  Most of the literature about e-assessment discusses this topic in the context of e-learning     In th is reg a r d eas s e s s m e nt ref e rs to  the use of information and communication technology \(ICT\e education th e domain of e-learning, e-assessment is already an issue for several years. For example Connolly classifies online-assessment respectively eassessment in the second generation e-learning within his new model of distance education, whereas a third generation e-learning already exists in his model 13  In contrast to that e-assessment is a relatively new topic in the area of selection and recruitment. In this connection Bartram refers to e-assessments as structured assessments that can be completed online by job seekers and that can be shown to be job relevant. Thereby online recruitment could be repositioned as a process of matching the competencies and capabilities of an applicant to the requirements of the job vacancy, and so produce a high quality shortlist  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


In the next section a case study will be presented explaining the implementation of a self- and eassessment as a recruiting system within one of the largest publishing houses worldwide. The main focus of the case study is the motivation of the company to implement self- and e-assessment as an online game available to job seekers and people interested in career opportunities  3. Practical background  In compliance with Eisenhardt the case study uses a research strategy which focuses on understanding the dynamics present within individual settings Yin additionally emphasizes the real-lifecharacteristic of these single settings  As we used a single case study approach to answer our research question, we designed the case study following the guidelines of Yi ce w e  started by defining our research design and its components including the initial research question, its proposition\(s\d its unit\(s\ of analysis. Having concluded the definition phase, we selected the company to be considered within the case study in accordance with Eisenha t  w e e s tablish e d interview guidelines defining the procedure pursued during the data collection     The interviews were conducted in two stages First, the context variables were discovered using a semi-structured interview. This was followed about one month later by a fully structured interview. The interviews took place in the company selected and lasted about two hours. Two representatives of the enterprise, who are in charge for the recruiting process and especially the implementation of the self and e-assessment tool, and two members of our research team were involved. To support our results we have added further documents provided by the company as meeting records and project descriptions Finally the resulting case study report was released by the participating company  3.1. Company background  The company selected for this case study will be called MAG for reasons of anonymity. MAG is one of the largest global publishing houses with more than 14.000 employees in 24 countries. MAG s headquarter is located in Northern Germany  Despite this size of the enterprise MAG identified difficulties concerning its employer brand. The main reason for this situation is the weak awareness of the company s name MAG in contrast to a wide range of very well-known products \(i.e. journals and newspapers\AG. Further on MAG is intensely looking for new employees in the commercial area but people don t expect a publishing house being an employer for commercial occupations. Additionally it is the aim of MAG to train apprentices to a great extent but unfortunately the job profile of a publisher sales man is hardly known among the potential candidates. Furthermore MAG expected to save time and costs with implementing a system that can be used on the internet and therefore less personal contact at one place is necessary. Addressing these problems MAG decided to introduce the system CyPRESS \(Cyber-PreSelectionSystem\within its recruiting process  3.2. The combination of self-assessment and e-assessment system basics  MAG is regarding the recruiting process as a two step approach. In the first step the applicants and the company should have the opportunity to get to know each other. Within this step the candidates should get an idea of MAG as their potential employer first of all and apply for a job via the web form on the company s website afterwards  The second step is the selection of candidates. In this process appropriate applicants are identified among all incoming applications and invited to an online assessment center to appraise their competencies and to collect further information. An assessment center and personal interviews are following as final activities to identify and engage the most appropriate candidate for a vacancy  Both steps are supported by the online game CyPRESS in order to ensure the personnel selection being as effective as possible. CyPRESS was designed by a software and computer gaming company. It combines the two approaches of self and e-assessment. The synergy effects resulting from this combination lead to an improvement of the overall short listing process  Within the first of the two mentioned steps potential applicants should be encouraged to assess their own appropriateness in regard to the job vacancy \(self-assessment\As a result MAG expects more adequate candidates among all incoming applications and therefore an increasing quality. In the second step CyPRESS enables an effective and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


efficient pre-selection of the applicants via companyspecific tasks in an e-assessment-center  In summary self-assessment is focusing on communicating information about MAG as an employer to potential applicants. By contrast eassessment is designed for candidates who already applied for a job and were pre-selected by MAG These candidates have to participate in several occupational online games \(e-assessment\ng part of the selection process  The way self- and e-assessment are implemented within the CyPRESS System is described below  3.3. Self-assessment - source of information and decision support  The part of CyPRESS supporting self-assessment is integrated in the company website of MAG and accessible for anyone on the internet. Being a component of employer branding the focus of selfassessment is directed to the target group of students and graduates  Within this self-assessment subsystem of CyPRESS participants are able to obtain information about MAG s trainee program as well as about important departments and job descriptions of the company in an entertaining way. The primary goal is to provide an insight into the multifaceted commercial tasks in a publishing house. The participants have the possibility to find out in an anonymous way if the tasks appeal to them and if this is the career they really want to start  The self-assessment area is implemented as an online game taking place in virtual world. If one joins the game one takes on the role of an employee of a successful journal. One has to cope with realistic commercial tasks in the following four important departments of a publishing house   business development   editorial office   sales and distribution/subscription marketing   advertising department  Real employees of MAG are integrated in the game as avatars \(an avatar is a graphical agent representing a real person in a virtual world respectively in a computer game\ reality as accurately as possible  Having performed a task, the participant gets a feedback about her/his abilities directly. However these results are not saved and thus cannot be used in the recruiting process. This information is only meant for potential applicants. Playing this online game you can assess your appropriateness and propensity to start a career at MAG and decide afterwards, if you apply for a job or not  As an ideal result of the self-assessment appropriate candidates who did not consider MAG as an employer before realize that working at MAG would be an interesting challenge. On the other hand candidates who intended to apply for a job at MAG in the past would forbear from doing so, if they imagined a different kind of work. Both scenarios would lead to a better appropriateness of applicants as well as to an enhanced personnel selection  3.4. E-assessment effective selection of candidates  In contrast to the self-assessment that aims at presenting MAG as a potential employer, the eassessment-area of CyPRESS is an integral part of the recruiting process. Personal results of the eassessment are saved and analyzed and have a direct influence on the probability of success of an application  The first step in the early phase just after the receipt of the applications is a database-driven personnel pre-selection, realized by CyPRESS Adjacent the candidates who will be invited to an eassessment on the CyPRESS platform are selected by HR managers  The second step is the e-assessment via CyPRESS. Thereby the applicants are confronted with various tasks in the same virtual environment as within the self-assessment part. However this time the focus is not on self-assessment but on the appropriateness of the candidates concerning the prospective professional success from MAG s point of view  E-assessment tasks of CyPRESS derive from simulative standard methods that were adjusted to the demands of MAG within a multi-level process. The tasks are phrased in an occupational way and embedded in certain gaming situations that are likely to happen in daily work \(e.g. analyzing tables preparing presentations, counterchecking texts adapting charts or staff planning Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


 By performing the tasks the applicants are assessed with regard to occupational and firmspecific personality traits in the following domains   cognitive ability   planning ability   competence in problem solving   deductive and  analytical skills  After the completion of the e-assessment process the personal results are imported in MAG s candidate management system directly and attached to the other personal data. Hence an access to the database provides an insight into the results of the eassessment as well as into the remaining applicant data. On the basis of the e-assessment results and the information out of the curricula vitae, MAG decides which applicant will be admitted to the following personal steps of the selection process  A major advantage of the described proceeding is up to the fact that the shortlisting will be more established due to the collected information. Thus candidates who would usually have been rejected e.g. because of their biographical data\ still be admitted to the next step of the selection process  3.5. System acceptance  The acceptance of both, the self-assessment- and the e-assessment part of CyPRESS, has exceeded all of MAG s expectations. As a result of an evaluation carried out by MAG only one out of two hundred participating candidates declared that the amount of effort to cope with this web-based software solution did not pay off. From the applicants point of view the main advantage of CyPRESS is up to a more objective short listing. The reasons for a rejection can be explained on the basis of the e-assessment results Further on rejected applicants are able to reflect their abilities by a feedback provided by MAG. Due to these advantages and to the realistic virtual environment of CyPRESS, MAG did not have any problems concerning the acceptance of the system by the candidates  3.6. Impact on recruiting  First, the entire explained steps \(self-assessment web application form, candidate management system and e-Assessment\able a fast and efficient preselection of personnel as expected by MAG. Thereby the additional information about the applicants collected within the e-assessment lead to a higher efficiency of the following personal steps of the selection process  Second, a strong employer brand was established as a result of the firm-individual design of the selfassessment, the web application form and the eassessment. Today MAG is identified as an innovative media company. Also MAG was able to address new target groups and to enhance its awareness level  Finally the quality of the applications could be improved clearly since the startup of the selfassessment part of CyPRESS. The applications are more purposeful, and most of the applicants have a clear image of MAG as an employer and of the work that would be interesting for them  The objectives of the self- and e-assessment system implementation project were to increase the quality of candidates applying and to increase the quality of available information about candidates With realizing these increasing numbers MAG was able to streamline its recruiting process. For example a first decision wheatear a candidate is invited to a job interview can be based on broader information then before the implementation of the self- and eassessment system and only a few candidates have to be invited to identify the favored one. Therefore the candidate can be employed for less money and in shorter time then before the implementation of the system. These perceived and finally realized savings were the motivation of the responsible HR-manager to implement a self- and e-assessment system as an online game within the recruiting process of the company In summary the introduction of CyPRESS was successful all down the line. MAG s expectations were all exceeded. Currently MAG is working on a modification of the individual test procedures within the e-assessment-Part to be able to gain even more detailed information about the candidates  4. Structural Equation Model  The results of the single case study provided by section three indicates that the intention to use self and e-assessment is mainly motivated by the perceived cost and time savings as well as the increasing quality of candidates apply for jobs. In this section we will test these specific results in a more general setting. We therefore develop a SEM based on several popular models in technology acceptance research as TAM \(Technology Acceptance Model  T H Model of A d o p tion of T echn o logy i n  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


Households d t h e UT AUT Un i f i ed T h eor y o f  Acceptance and Use of Technology   4.1. Research model  TAM introduces Perceived Ease of Use \(PEOU and Perceived Usefulness \(PU\ two major influencing factors for the intention to use an information system. Research of the last 20 years has provided evidence for PEOU and PU influencing intention. We use the TAM due to its particular suitability to examine the acceptance of a new innovative information system \(e.g  d 29   W e u s e d t h e t e r m s o f P E O U u n d P U t o f u r t h e r  examine the acceptance of assessment center in an organizational context  The MATH model examines the use of an information system through different forms of belief attitudinal beliefs, normative beliefs and control beliefs. As the attitudinal and normative beliefs represent the individual users experiences, hedonic and social outcomes, the control beliefs describe the perceived value of using the system in form of cost savings. Therefore we extracted the control beliefs and integrate them in our research model as perceived cost and time savings  Observing the technology acceptance in an organizational context a frequent cited model is the UTAUT In or der t o pr ov i d e s i g n i f i c a n t  relationships between the behavioral intention to use a system and its related antecedents few moderators were integrated in the research model. \(e.g. age gender, income\o observe in addition to perceived cost and time savings potential quality improvements we integrated the factors of performance and effort expectancy  H1: Perceived Usefulness has a positive effect on the intention to use self-/e-assessment  H2a: Perceived Ease of Use has a positive effect on Intention to use self-/e-assessment  H2b: Perceived Ease of Use has a positive effect on Perceived Usefulness  H3: Perceived Quality Improvements has a positive effect on Perceived Usefulness  H4: Perceived Cost Savings have a positive effect on Perceived Usefulness  H5: Perceived Time Savings have a positive effect on Perceived Usefulness  Figure 1 illustrates the operationalization of the described hypotheses in our research model   Figure 1: E-assessment adoption model  4.2. Research design  We used a paper-based questionnaire to empirically test our hypotheses. Our research model has been operationalized and transferred into a structural equation model \(SEM\e analyzed the SEM with the Partial Least Squares \(PLS   o r th e calcu lation  of ou r res u lts  w e  u s ed  SmartPLS. The level of significance for support or rejection of hypotheses were chosen as p=0.001  Each construct in our research model is represented by a set of indicators. We measured all reflective indicators on a 7-point Likert scale using scales from strongly agree to strongly disagree  Table 1 below presents the operationalization of our constructs in the field of self- and e-assessment. The original survey was written in German; hence, items from the questionnaire described in the following have been translated. The indicators where designed following Davis          Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


PEOU-1 The use of self-/e-assessment is understandable PEOU-2 Self-/e-assessments are easy to use PU-1 Self-/e-assessment will simplify candidate selection PU-2 Self-/e-assessment will increase effectivity of candidate selection PU-3 Self-/e-assessment is useful in candidate selection PQI-1 Self-/e-assessment enables better collection and evaluation of candidates skills PQI-2 Self-/e-assessment increases candidates' information quality PCS-1 Self-/e-assessment reduces cost of candidate selection PCS-2 There is a suitable solution of self-/eassessment systems PTI-1 Self-/e-assessment streamlines selection of candidates PTI-2 Self-/e-assessment decreases the timeto-hire INT-1 We will use self-/e-assessment in the future INT-2 We plan to use self-/e-assessment in the future INT-3 We intend to use self-/e-assessment in the future Table 1: Operationalization of constructs  4.3. Model validation  In 2007, our questionnaire was sent to HR managers in charge of Fortune 1,000 companies in Germany. Overall, 191 usable questionnaires were returned out of a total sample of 1,000 \(response rate 19.1  4.3.1. Measurement model  The quality of the reflective measurement model is determined by \(1\tent validity \(2\ndicator reliability, \(3\struct reliability and \(4 discriminant validity [1   Content validity describes the degree to which the results measured represent the content-semantic element of the construc A con d itio n f o r con t e n t  validity evaluation is a very precise definition of the content of the constructs beforehand. During our case study research the constructs were discussed in detail with several experts in the Human Resource department of the global operating publishing house see section 3\sure the content validity of our constructs [12  Fur t he r m o r e t h e c o nst r uc t s  w e r e  evaluated by the Human Resources experts of a job portal that operates on a worldwide scale  Indicator reliability In the model tested, all loadings are significant at the p=0.001 level and are above the recommended 0.7 parameter valu A l l  indicator loadings under 0.4 parameter value were excluded beforehand  Sign i f ica n ce tes ts  w e re  conducted using the bootstrap routine with 500 samples h e in dicator lo adin gs are s u mm arized in Table 3  Construct reliability demands that indicators which are related to the same construct should have a close correlation to each othe o n s tru c t  reliability was tested using composite reliability \(CR and average variance extracted \(AVE\he estimated values were above the recommended thresholds of 0.7 for CR and 0.5 for AVE [2 a ble 2 prov ides an overview of CR and AVE in our measurement model and shows that all measures are over the recommended levels   AVE CR Mean S.ER S.D INT 0.9367 0.978 3.707 .199 2.762 PCS 0.6036 0.7522 3.256 .109 1.265 PQI 0.7668 0.8679 3.907 .104 1.188 PTS 0.7971 0.8871 3.475 .129 1.432 PEOU 0.8241 0.9035 4.208 .109 1.249 PU 0.829 0.9356 3.492 .112 1.277 Table 2: Descriptive Statistics, AVE and CR  Discriminant validity can be evaluated by considering the cross-loadings. The loadings of our reflective indicators are higher for the corresponding constructs than for any other \(see Table 3 Additionally, the square root of the AVE for each construct is higher than the correlations between the single constructs \(Table 4\Therefore, the discriminant validity of the latent variables is high             Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 PEOU PU PQI PCS PTS INT PEOU-1 0.935 0.377 0.540 0.212 0.168 0.525 PEOU-2 0.879 0.256 0.297 0.256 0.176 0.406 PU-1 0.266 0.891 0.574 0.624 0.731 0.421 PU-2 0.329 0.955 0.644 0.634 0.690 0.437 PU-3 0.377 0.884 0.660 0.620 0.551 0.523 PQI-1 0.573 0.659 0.902 0.364 0.490 0.555 PQI-2 0.234 0.537 0.848 0.321 0.498 0.328 PCS-1 0.178 0.578 0.304 0.819 0.625 0.264 PCS-2 0.220 0.487 0.308 0.732 0.314 0.441 PTI-1 0.110 0.677 0.401 0.658 0.905 0.292 PTI-2 0.233 0.609 0.614 0.437 0.881 0.300 INT-1 0.570 0.521 0.546 0.418 0.341 0.969 INT-2 0.480 0.508 0.484 0.466 0.345 0.975 INT-3 0.449 0.432 0.460 0.398 0.267 0.959 Table 3: Cross loadings    INT PCS PQI PTS PEOU PU INT 0.9678      PCS 0.442 0.7769     PQI 0.516 0.393 0.8757    PTS 0.331 0.620 0.562 0.8928   PEOU 0.521 0.253 0.479 0.188 0.9078  PU 0.507 0.688 0.688 0.721 0.357 0.9105 Table 4: Discriminant validity Note: Square root of AVE on diagonal  4.3.2. Structural Model  After the measurement model specification, we analyze the structural model. The squared multiple correlations \(R 2 xpress the significance of the four endogenous variables. The corresponding t-values show the level of significance using the magnitude of the standardized parameter estimates between constructs. The path coefficients in the research model are significant as shown in Figure 2  The explanatory power of the R≤ is classified by Chin bs t a n t i a l e x pres s i v en e s s f o r t h e  research model could be estimated by an R≤ over 0.67. An average effect stands for R≤-values between 0.67 and 0.34. The explanatory power is weak for an R≤ between 0.34 and 0.19 and overall not relevant for R≤-values under 0.19 [1    Figure 2: Structural model validation   Therefore R≤ of our research model for the intention to use self- and e-assessment can be categorized as substantial expressive for perceived usefulness and as an average effect for intention  4.4. Results  The results of our empirical research based on our explorative case study is that the intention to use self and e-assessments can be explained by Davis perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use Furthermore antecedents of perceived usefulness are perceived quality improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings derived of the MATH e ll as th e [36]. Statistical  support can be provided for all the hypothesized relations between constructs except of perceived ease of use on perceived usefulness  5. Limitations  As with any work in a new field of research relevant literature about self- and e-assessments to build on is almost nonexistent. Unfortunately the operationalization of "perceived cost and time savings" as well as perceived quality improvements  in this paper could consequently not build on earlier work too much so we had to derive them of the MATH m  w e ll as t h e UT A U T  36   As with any empirical field study, this work has limitations. It is important to note that we have build an explorative model to examine the acceptance of self- and e-assessments. As this study provides support for a significant influence of PU and PEOU Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


on the intention to use self- and e-assessment center as well as the influence of PQI, PCS and PTS on PU it might represent a single example for a specific economy, country or cultural region . There might be differences for the intention of different informnation systems with different settings. Future research should discuss this issue more detailed  Furthermore our questionnaire was just answered by large-scale corporations in Germany. So our results might not be directly transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises  In addition, as we collected our data from participants at the same time using the same survey our results may be affected by common method varian  6. Conclusion  Self-assessment and e-assessment as online games in staff recruiting are a valuable solution for companies to support on the one side their employer branding activities and on the other side the selection of the favored candidate. The case study of our papers shows that companies can generate more qualified applications and concurrently save time and money. Based on these findings our empirical research with 191 of the Top-1000 companies of Germany provide statistical evidence that perceived quality improvements, perceived cost savings and perceived time savings are the main reasons beside perceived usefulness and ease of use why companies intend to use self- and e-assessment in their recruiting processes  References   Bago zzi  R  P   T h e Ro l e  of M easu r e m en t i n T h eo ry Construction and Hypothesis Testing: Toward a Holistic Model", in: Conceptual and Theoretical Developments in Marketing, O.C. Ferrell, S.W. Brown and C.W. Lamb eds.\ago, pp. 15-32, 1979 2 Ba g o z z i R  P  a n d Y i  Y   O n t h e Ev a l ua tio n of  Structural Equation Models", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science \(16\pp 74-94, 1988 3 Ba rtra m  D Testing on the Internet: Issues Challenges and Opportunities in the field of Occupational Assessments in: D. Bartram, and R.K. Hambleton \(eds Computer-Based Testing and the Internet: Issues and Advances, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Chichester, England 2006 4 B r o w n, S  A  a nd Ve nk a t e s h V  Model of Adoption of Technology in Households: A Baseline Model Test and Extension Incorporating Household Life Cycle MIS Quarterly \(29:3\pp.399-426, 2005  Bu zzetto M o r e N A   and A l ad e A  J   Best Practices in e-Assessment Journal of Information Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 251-269 6 Ca lig iuri P  M., a n d P h i llips J.M An application of self-assessment realistic job previews to expatriate assignments The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 2003, Vol. 14, No. 7, pp. 11021116 7 Ca rm ine s E. G  Ze lle r R A  1979 Re lia bil ity a nd Validity Assessment. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications 8 Ca s c io, W  F A pplie d P s y c ho log y in H u m a n Re s ourc e  Management, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliffs, NJ, 1998 9 Cha p p e ll, D Ea t oug h V D a v i e s M.N  O  a n d  Griffiths, M EverQuest It s Just a Comupter Game Right? An Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis of Online Gaming Addicition International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 205-216 10 C h in, W  W  T he P a rtia l L e a s t Squa re s A pproa c h to  Structural Equation Modelling", in: Modern methods for business research, G.A. Marcoluides \(ed.\, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, London, pp. 295-336, 1998 11 Ch in, W  W  F re que ntly A s k e d Q u e s tions  Partial Least Squares & PLS-Graph", 2000 12 hill J. R a n d G ilbe r t, A  A P a ra dig m  f o r Developing Better Measures of Marketing Constructs  Journal of Marketing Research 15 \(2\pp. 77-94, 1979 13 C o n nol ly T a nd Sta n s f ie ld M  Using GamesBased eLearning Technologies in Overcoming Difficulties in Teaching Information Systems Journal of International Technology Education, 2006, Vol. 5, pp. 459-476 14 D a v i s  F. D   1 9 89  P e r c e i v e d U s ef ulne s s  P e r c e i v e d Ease of Use and User Acceptance of Information Technology. MIS Quarterly, 13:3, pp. 319-339 15 D o ll, W  J A  H e ndric k s on, a n d X  D e ng  Using Davis s Perceived Usefulness and Ease-of-use Instruments for Decision Making: A Confirmatory and Multigroup Invariance Analysis  Decision Sciences 29\(4\, 1998, pp 839-869 16 Eis e n h a r dt, K   M. \(1 98 9 ilding T h e o rie s f r om Ca s e  Study Research, Academy of Management Review, 14, 4 532-550 17  Fa e r be r, F  K e im T a nd W e itz e l T  An Automated Recommendation Approach to Personnel Selection  In: Proceedings of the 2003 Americas Conference on Information Systems; Tampa 18  Fe ng M H e ff e r na n, N  T a nd K o e d ing e r, K  R  Addressing the Testing Challenge with a Web-Based EAssessment System that Tutors as it Assesses  Proceedings of the 15th international conference on World Wide Web, Edinburgh, Scotland, 2006, pp. 307-316 19  For n e ll, C a n d L a rc ke r, D F E v a lua ting S t ruc tura l  Equitation Models with Unobservable Variables and Measurement Errors", Journal of Marketing Research, 18 pp. 39-50, 1981 20 G e org e  D I., a nd Sm ith, M.C An Empirical Comparison of Self-Assessment and Organizational Assessment in Personnel Selection Public Personnel Management, 1990, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 175-190 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


21 G r iff iths, M.D., Da v i e s  M.N.O., a nd Cha p p e ll, D  Breaking the Stereotype: The Case of Online Gaming  CyberPsychology & Behavior. January 1, 2003, Vol 6, No 1, pp. 81-91 22 Hu l l an d  J U se o f P a rtial L e a s t Sq u a res \(P L S  in   Strategic Management Research: A Review of Four Recent Studies. Strategic Management Journal, 20 \(4\, pp. 195204, 1999 23 J o ne s L a nd Fle t c h e r C  Self-assessment in a selection situation: An evaluation of different measurement approaches Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 2002, Vol. 75, pp. 145-161 24 K e im T  a nd W e itz e l  T  Strategies for Hiring IT Professionals: An Empirical Analysis of Employer and Job Seeker Behavior on the IT Labor market In: Proceedings of the 2006 Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS\ulco, Mexico 25 L a um e r S Ec k h a r dt, A a nd W e itz e l T   Recruiting IT Professionals in a Virtual World In: Proceedings of the 12th Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems PACIS 2008\uzhou, China 2 L e e I   The Architecture for a Next-Generation Holistic E-Recruiting System Communications of the ACM, Vol. 50, No. 7, 81-85, 2007 27 L e v i ne E.L Flory  A   a nd A s h, R.A  Selfassessment in personnel selection Journal of Applied Psychology, 1977, Vol. 62, No. 4, pp. 428-435 28  Ma lho t ra Y., a n d G a lle tta D. F Extending the Technology Acceptance Model to Account for Social Influence Theoretical Bases and Empirical Validation  Proceedings of the 32 nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences 2 Lo u H Lu o  W  and St r ong D  2 00 0   Perceived Critical Mass Effect on Groupware Acceptance  European Journal of Information Systems 9\(2\p.91-103 30 N u nna lly J  C., a nd Be rns t e i n, I. H  Psychometric Theory 3rd ed.\ McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994 31 Phil lips  J.M  Effects of Realistic Job Previews on Multiple Organizational Outcomes: A Meta-Analysis  Academy of Management Journal, 1998, Vol. 41, No. 6 pp. 673-690 3  P o d s ako f f  P   M    M acKen zie S  B  L ee J Y  Podsakoff, N. P. \(2003\. Common Method Bias in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended Remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88, No. 5, pp. 879-903 33 Ri dg w a y  J Mc Cus k e r, S., a nd P e a d D   Literature Review of e-Assessment Nesta Future Lab, Bristol, UK 2004 3 Ry n e s S  L   Recru i t m en t   Job Choice, and Post-Hire Consequences in: M.D. Dunnette, and L.M. Hough \(eds Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology Consulting Psychologists Press, Palo Alto, CA, 1991 35 Ste i nk ue hle r   C.A  Learning in massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the 6th international conference on Learning sciences, Santa Monica, California, 2004 36 U nde rw ood J  D  M Ba ny a r d P.E. a n d D a v i e s  M.N.O Students in digital worlds: Lost in Sin City or reaching Treasure Island BJEP Monograph Series II Number 5 - Learning through Digital Technologies Volume 1, Number 1, 1 July 2007 , pp. 83-99 36  Ve nk a t e s h V M o r r i s  M  G  un d A c k e r m a nn P  L   2000 A Longitudinal Field Investigation of Gender Differences in Individual Technology Adoption DecisionMaking Processes Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Vol. 83, Nr. 1, S. 33-60 3 W e i ss E  A    Self-Assessment Communications of the ACM, 1990, Vol. 33, No. 11, pp. 110-132 38 W a rd, M G r uppe n, L a n d Re g e hr, G  Measuring Self-assessment: Current State of the Art Advances in Health Sciences Education, 2002, Vol. 7, pp. 63-80 39 Y i n, R. K  20 03 s e Stu d y R e s e a r c h D e s i g n a nd Methods, Sage Publications, Inc., Thousand Oaks, London New Dehli Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 could be improved by a simple modification of the feed by adding a small tuning vane to th e feed. Therefore, it can be stated that some improvement can be expected by modification of the feeds, and adaptation of the test antenna in such a way that surrounding Ku-band element are closed   Figure 28 Reflection coefficient of Ku-band stacked patch antenna element in dual-frequency antenna stack  Figure 29 shows the influence of the L-band slots on the return loss of the Ku-band antenna element. To this end, the four connectors of the L-band elements were alternately open and terminated by means of 50 loads. The deviations were measured with respect to the set-up where all connectors were terminated Apparently, the deviations are acceptable  Figure 29 Influence of L-band termination on return loss of Ku-band antenna element, with and without termination Figure 30 and Figure 31 show the isolation between the Lband and Ku-band elements in L-band and Ku-band respectively. To this end the S21-parameters have been measured. These figures reveal that the mutual coupling between the L-band and Ku-band elements is sufficiently small  Figure 30 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in L-band frequencies  Figure 31 Measured isolation between L-band and Ku-band antennas in Ku-band frequencies From these measurements it can be concluded that opportunities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-band elements antenna and the measurement set-up \(closure of surrounding Ku-band ports and use of appropriate connectors for the open Ku-band ports 7  M ODIFIED DUAL FREQUENCY ANTENNA  In order to benefit the str ong points of the two separate designs as discussed in section 4, an alternative antenna is proposed that exploits the properties of a \221best of both worlds\222 solution employing ideas from both designs. The modified antenna possesses an aperture fed L-band patch of a similar form to first design, but situated towards the bottom of the stack. Ku band el ements are located within the L-band perforations and para sitic patches are situated above a foam spacer \(see Figure 32 and Figure 33\A measurement campaign is underway to assess the behaviour of this modified test antenna 


  12  Figure 32 Bottom view of dual frequency antenna tile with perforated L-band patc h in lower layer with Kuband patches  Figure 33 Layer stack with perforated L-band patch in lower layer with Ku-band patches  8  B EAM FORMING N ETWORK  A major keystone for the su ccess of phased array antenna onboard aircraft is the capability of steering the main beam in the direction of the geosta tionary satellites. This requires the inclusion of a broadband beam forming network. Beam steering can be realized by adding RF-phase shifters and LNA\222s to the antenna elements of the array. However traditional phase shifters in ge neral have a narrow band, and hence do not yield the re quired broadband capability Alternative technologies for broadband beam forming are switched beam networks \(using Butler matrices innovative designs for RF-compone nts such as phase shifter LNA components in \(M\IC technology, or beam forming by using opti cal ring resonators  The German SME IMST is involved in several projects for development of electronica lly steerable phased array antennas for satellite communication. In the NATALIA project \(New Automotive Track ing Antenna for Low-cost Innovative Applications\ ESA, IMST is investigating the possibility of realizing a compact costeffective solution for a recei ve-only full electronically steerable antenna for cars in Ku-band. This antenna is a planar array composed of approximately 150 patches circularly polarised by using a 90\260 hybrid, and arranged in a hexagonal fashion. Each patc h is equipped with a MMIC corechip containing a phase sh ifting unit, LNA and digital steering logic  In the Netherlands, a consortiu m \(consisting of University of Twente, Lionix BV, National Aerospace Laboratory NLR and Cyner Substrates developing in the national FlySmart project technology for a broadband optical beam forming network. For the steering of the beam of the conformal phased array a squi nt-free, continuously tunable mechanism is proposed that is based on a fully integrated optical beam forming network \(OBFN optical ring resonators \(ORRs as tunable delay elements. A narrowband continuously tunabl e optical TTD device is realized as a recirculating wa veguide coupled to a straight waveguide. This straight wave guide can behave as a bandpass filter with a periodic, bell-shaped tunable group delay response. The maximum group delay occurs at a tunable resonance frequency. A larger delay-bandwidth product can be achieved by cascading multiple ORR sections. A complete OBFN can be obtaine d by grouping several delays and combining elements in one optical circuit. Such an OBFN can be realized on a si ngle-chip. Electrical/Optical E/O O E by means of filter based single-sideband modulation suppressing the carrier lanced coherent optical detection. Further details of the optical beamforming network have been presented in Re The proof-ofconcept has been shown by manufacturing a chip for an 8x1 OBFN. Essential components of the OBFN are the optical modulators, which are used to modulate the light in the ORR system 9  C ONCLUSIONS  For enhanced communicati on on board aircraft, novel antenna systems with broa dband satellite-based capabilities are required. So far, existi ng L-band satellite based systems for communications are used primarily for passenger application \(APC\i nistrative communications AAC and now data are tending to evolve towards broadband dig ital applications \(Voice over IP\any studies are going on worldwide to employ Kuband TV geostationary sate llites for communication with mobile terminals on aircraft The inbound traffic is about 5 times higher than the outbound The inbound traffic requires the availability of a broadband Ku-band antenna in receive mode only. The outbound traffic services can be supplied by the Inmarsat SBB link, whic h requires the installation of an L-band transmit antenna. In order to avoid both the installation of L-band antenna and Ku-band antenna, the concept of a hybrid dual frequency antenna operating L 


  13 band and Ku-band with low aerodynamic profile has been investigated in this paper. Keyaspects of this research are 200  Design and testing dual-fre quency antenna elements operating in both L-band and Ku-band 200  Conformal aspects of Ku-band phased array antennas 200  Beam forming algorithms for planar and conformal phased array antennas Two designs for dual-frequency antenna tiles consisting of 8x8 Ku-band antenna elements and one L-band element The designs have been analysed by means of computer simulations. Both designs show promising performance both in L-band and Ku-band. The design with slotted Lband antenna has a resonant fre quency in receive mode with a bandwidth of about 1 GHz. The Ku-band antenna is a stacked patch configuration where a parasitic element is placed above a lower patch separated by dedicated space filler. The manufactured protot ype antennas indicate that the bandwidth is sufficiently large In order to be able to communicate with geostationary satellites also at high latitudes e.g. during inter-continental flights\stem should have sufficient performance at low elevation angles. The antenna Ku-band system is required to have a small beamwidth \(to discriminate between the satellite signals\gain 30 dB angles. The effects of these requirements on the size and positioning of the antenna on the aircraft fuselage have been investigated. These requirements can be best satisfi ed by installing two planar phased array antennas on both side s of the fuselage with at least 1600 Ku-band elements. Each element has two feed lines, one for each polarization Every feed line has to be connected to the beam formi ng network. This means that the connections cannot be routed to one of the four sides of the antenna. Instead the concept of vertical feed lines \(by means of vias in a sufficiently thick substrate recommended. These vertical f eed lines connect the L-band and Ku-band antenna elements in the upper layer with feed networks in multiple lower laye rs. This vertical feed line system was not available so far due to manufacturing problems The performances of one dua l-frequency antenna design have been investigated by manufacturing two test antennas without vertical feed line syst em. The first antenna contains only a multilayer structure with L-band slots and 8x8 Kuband stacked patches. The performances of the L-band slots and Ku-band stacked patches c ould be measured separately It was concluded that opportun ities should be considered to improve the design of the dual-frequency antenna \(by optimizing the feeds of the Ku-b and elements the dual frequency test-antenna and the measurement set-up More important, however, is the realization of a mechanically stable vertical feed line system, so that the properties of L-band and Ku-band elements can be measured adequately The second test antenna contains only a multilayer structure with 8x8 Ku-band stacked patches and a feed network with 8 combiners, where each comb iner coherently sums 8 antenna elements. In combination with a prototype 8x1 OBFN, a Ku-band phased arra y antenna is obtained of which the beam can be steered in one direction. This second test antenna is used to analyze the broadband properties of the 8x8 Ku-band antenna array and 8x1 OBFN. The measured performances of this antenna are presented in Ref   A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was part of the EU 6 th Framework project ANASTASIA., and the FlySmart project, supported by the Dutch Ministry of Economic A ffairs, SenterNovem project numbers ISO53030 The FlySmart project is part of the Eureka PIDEA  project SMART Cyner Substrates is acknowle dged for technical assistance during the fabrication of the prototype antennas 


  14 R EFERENCES  1  P. Jorna, H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, \223Beam Synthesis for Conformal Array Antennas with Efficient Tapering\224 Proceedings of 5 th European Workshop on Conformal Antennas, Bristol, September 11-12, 2007 2  The Radio Regulations, editi on of 2004, contain the complete texts of the Radio Regulations as adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference \(Geneva WRC-95 tly revised and adopted by the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-97\RadioWRC2000\and the World Radio-communication Conference WRC-03 Resolutions, Recommendations and ITU-R Recommendations incorporat ed by reference 3  RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1643, Technical and operational requirements for ai rcraft earth stations of aeronautical mobile-satellite service including those using fixed satellite service network transponders in the band 14-14.5 GHz \(Earth-to-space 4  ETSI EN 302 186 v1.1.1 \(2004-01 Stations and Systems \(SES\onised European Norms for satellite mobile Aircraft Earth Stations AESs\the 11 12/14 GHz frequency bands covering essential requirement s under article 3.2 of the R&TTE directive 5  EUROCAE ED-14E; Environmental Conditions and Test procedures for Airbor ne Equipment, March 2005 6  F. Croq and D. M. Pozar, \223Millimeter wave design of wide-band aperture-coupled stacked microstrip antennas,\224 IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagation, vol. 39 pp. 1770\2261776, Dec. 1991 7  S. D. Targonski, R. B. Waterhouse, D. M. Pozar Design of wide-band aperture stacked patch microstrip antennas ", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 46, no. 9, Sep. 1998, pp. 1245-1251 8  R. B. Waterhouse, "Design of probe-fed stacked patches", IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 47, no. 12, Dec. 1999, pp. 1780-1784 9  D.M. Pozar, S. D. Targonski, \223A shared aperture dualband dual-polarised microstrip array\224, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation,Vol. 49 no. 2,Feb. 2001, pp. 150-157 10  http://www.ansoft.com 11  J-F. Z\374rcher, F.E. Gardiol, \223Broadband patch antennas\224 Artech House, \(1995\N 0-89006-777-5 12  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, A Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, L. Zhuang, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse, A Borreman, M. Hoekman M. Wintels, \223Broadband Conformal Phased array with Optical Beamforming for Airborne Satellite Communication\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2008, Big Sky, Montana US 13  H. Schippers, J. Verpoorte, P. Jorna, A. Hulzinga, L Zhuang, A. Meijerink, C. G. H. Roeloffzen, D. A. I Marpaung, W. van Etten, R. G. Heideman, A. Leinse M. Wintels, \223Broadband Op tical Beam Forming for Airborne Phased Array An tenna\224, Proc. of the IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 2009, Big Sky, Montana US 


  15  B IOGRAPHIES  Harmen Schippers is senior scientist at the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR. He received his Ph. D. degree in applied mathematics from the University of Technology Delft in 1982. Since 1981 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory NLR. He has research experience in computational methods for aero-eleastics, aeroacoustic and electromagnetic problems. His current research activities are development of technology for integration of smart antennas in aircraft structures, and development of computational tools for installed antenna analysis on aircraft and spacecraft  Jaco Verpoorte has more than 10 years research experience on antennas and propagation Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC and radar and satellite navigation He is head of the EMC-laboratory of NLR. He is project manager on several projects concerning EMCanalysis and development of advanced airborne antennas    Adriaan Hulzinga received his BEng degree in electronics from the hogeschool Windesheim in Zwolle Since 1996 he has been employed at the National Aerospace laboratory \(NLR as a senior application engineer. He is involved in projects concerning antennas and Electromagnetic compatibility \(EMC  Pieter Jorna received the M.Sc degree in applied mathematics from the University of Twente in 1999 From 1999 to 2005 he was with the Laboratory of Electromagnetic Research at the University of Technology Delft. In 2005 he received the Ph.D. degree for his research on numerical computation of electromagnetic fields in strongly inhomogeneous media Since 2005 he is with the National Aerospace Laboratory NLR\ in the Netherlands as R&D engineer   Andrew Thain is a research engineer in the field of electromagnetic modelling of antennas. He specialises in the use of surface integral methods for the calculation of coupling and radiation patterns and works closely with Airbus on the topic of antenna positioning. He has experience in the field of electromagnetic modelling  Gilles Peres is head of the Electromagnetics group of EADS-IW He has a wide experience in computational EM modelling particularly the use of FDTD, integral and asymptotic techniques for antenna structure interactions. He has contributed with Airbus experts to the certification campaign of the A340/500 and A340/600. Dr Peres holds a PhD thesis from University of Toulouse \(1998\ on impulsive Electromagnetic Propagation effects through plasma   Hans van Gemeren has a BEng degree in electronics. From the beginning of Cyner substrates he is involved in development and production of prototyping and nonconventional Printed Circuit boards Working mainly for design and research centers Cyner got involved in many high tech projects and from this developed a great expertise in the use of different \(RF materials. In the FlySmart project Hans and his colleagues are able to do what they like most: In close cooperation with designers, creatively working on substrate solutions 


  16  


NIMBUS NOAA 8 NOAA 15 NPOESS Preparatory Project Orbital Maneuvering Vehicle Orbcomm Orbiting Carbon Observatory Orbiting Solar Observatory-8 Orbview 2 Orion 1 P78 Pas 4 Phoenix Pioneer P-30 Pioneer Venus Bus/Orbiter Small Probe and Large Probe Pioneer-I 0 Polar QuikSCAT Radarsat Reuven High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager REX-II Rosetta Instruments Sage III SAMPEX Satcom C3 Satcom C4 SBS 5 SCATHA Seastar SMART-1 SNOE Solar Dynamics Observatory Solar Maximum Mission Solar Mesosphere Explorer Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Space Interferometry Mission Space Test Program Small Secondary Satellite 3 Spitzer Space Telescope SPOT 5A Stardust  Sample Return Capsule STEPO STEPI STEP3 STEP4 STRV ID Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite Surfsat Surveyor Swift Gamma Ray Burst Exporer Synchronous Meterological Satellite-I TACSAT TACSAT 2 TDRS F7 Tellura Terra Terriers Tethered Satellite System Thermosphere Ionosphere Mesosphere Energetics and Dynamics TIMED TIROS-M TIROS-N TOMS-EP Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer TOPEX TRACE Triana Tropical Rain Measuring Mission TSX-5 UFO I UFO 4 UFO 9 Ulysses Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite Vegetation Canopy Lidar VELA-IV Viking Viking Lander Viking Orbiter Voyager Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe WIND WIRE XMM X-Ray Timing Explorer XTE XSS-iO XSS-ii APPENDIX B FIELDS COLLECTED Mission Mission Scenario Mission Type Launch Year Launch Vehicle Bus Model Bus Config Bus Diameter Location Expected Life Flight Profile Flight Focus Technical Orbit Currency Total Cost Including Launch Unit Sat Costs Average Sat Cost Production Costs Launch Costs Operations Cost Orbit Weight Wet Weight Dry Weight Max Power EOL Power BOL Power  of Batts 17 


Batt Power Batt Type Stabilization Type Propulsion Mechanism  of Solar Panels  of Solar Cells Manufacturing Qty Satellites in Constellation On-Orbit Spares Channels Number of Bands Data Storage Processing Power Source type Block Name Thermal Control Material Type Level of Technology Known Inheritance Propulsion station keeping Number of Axes Ground Based Spares Pointing Accuracy APPENDIX C EXISTING MODELS Numerous models are today in use for estimating spacecraft cost Two of the most common are the NASA/Air Force Cost Model and the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model Here is a description of the NAFCOM model The NASA/Air Force Cost Model NAFCOM is a parametric estimating toolfor space hardware It is based on historical NASA and Air Force space projects and is primarily used in the very early phases of a development project NAFCOM can be used at the subsystem or component levels The database currently includes 122 missions including 76 unmanned earth orbiting 24 unmanned planetary 11 launch vehicles 8 manned 3 engines It uses parametric relationships to estimate subsystem or component level costs for any aerospace hardware including earth orbital spacecraft manned spacecraft launch vehicle upper stages liquid rocket engines scientific instruments or planetary spacecraft 7 And for the Aerospace Small Satellite Cost Model SSCM employs a parametric methodology for estimation of program cost and is best suited to the early conceptual development phase of a spacecraft program during which time the design is likely to be less mature and when cost and performance trades can be easily performed SSCM consists of a collection of cost-estimating relationships or CERs which estimate the costs of developing andproducing a spacecraft system with the following subsystems  Attitude Determination and Control Subsystem ADCS  Propulsion  Power  Telemetry Tracking  Command TT&C  Command  Data Handling C&DH  Structure  Thermal CERs were also developed for integration assembly and test IA&T program management PM and systems engineering SE and launch and orbital operations support LOOS Individual subsystem cost estimates are statistically rolled up to yield a cost-risk distribution which provides the estimator with a range of cost estimates andpercentiles 8 The SSCM was calibrated from over 100 post-1990 Earth-orbiting andplanetary missions REFERENCES 1 Lack of Disciplined Cost-Estimating Processes Hinders Effective Program Management GAO study 04-642 2 Jilla Cyrus D and Miller David W Satellite Design Past Present and Future International Journal of Small Satellite Engineering 12 February 1997 3 Bearden David A A Complexity Based Risk Assessment of Low-Cost Planetary Missions:When Is A Mission Too Fast and Too Cheap Fourth IAA International Conference On Low-Cost Planetary Missions JHU/APL MAY 2-5 2000 4 Kellogg Mahr and Lobbia An Analogy-based Method for Estimating the Costs of Spacecraft IEEEAC paper 1371 Version 4 5 Hoeting Jennifer A Methodology for Bayesian Model Averaging An Update f 6]btp/ewiieiao iiAaos 7 Keith Smith NASA/Air Force Cost Model Science Applications International Corporation 8 18 


BIOGRAPHIES Lee Fischman served as Principle Investigator for this project Lee is Senior Director of Development at Galorath Incorporated where he directs much of the new product development and research at the firm He developed SEER for Software  Hardware Integrations with Microsoft Project the Comparison Sizing tool COTS Software model in addition to various data mining information extraction and expert systems Previously he was a software designerlprogrammer in the New York financial industry Lee earned a BA from the University of Chicago and an MA from UCLA both in economics Mike Kimel carried out statistical work on the project Mike is an Economist for Galorath Inc in addition to maintaining his own quantitative consulting practice He has also taught Economics and Advanced Statistics at the Graziadio School of Business and Management at Pepperdine University run the Competitive Strategy group for a Fortune 500 Telecom Company and worked as a Consultant at PriceWaterhouse LLC now PriceWaterhouse-Coopers He earned a Ph.D in Economicsfrom UCLA Troy Masters programmed analytic methods and is integrating the Far Out model into its parent product SEER for Hardware previously SEER-H Troy is a Software Engineer with Galorath Incorporated where he has been the primary developer for a range ofproducts He earned a BS in computer science from UCLA David J Pine was our subject matter expert helping us assemble data and gain insight into technical trends Dave is retired after a 34-year career with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA currently is a consultant to various government and industry entities While at NASA his organizations in the Office of the Chief Financial Officer and later at the IPAO at Langley Research Center were responsible for the conduct of major NASA program analyses and evaluations for the NASA Administrator and Deputy Administrator From early 1988 through the end of 1990 he was the Deputy Program Manager for the Hubble Space Telescope Program specifically responsible for the telescope operations and science support aspects of the program He earned a BS in Aerospace Engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and a Masters of Engineering Administration from the George Washington University 19 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


