Social Visualization of Health Messages    Brant Chee   Karrie G. Karahalios  Bruce Schatz University of Illinois                              University of Illinois                                University o f Illinois Urbana-Champaign Urbana-Champaign                                  Urbana-Champaign Institute for Genomic Biology Siebel Center for Institute for Genomic Biology 1206 W. Gregory Dr  Computer Science                                  1206 W. Gregory Dr Urbana, 61801                               201 N. Goodwin Ave. 3110                                Urbana, 61801 
Urbana, 61801 chee@uiuc.edu  kkarahal@cs.uiuc.edu  schatz@uiuc.edu    Abstract  Seeking health-related information on the Internet is becoming commonplace. Patients use the Internet to learn about their conditions and medications, and to discuss symptoms and concerns with other patients on chat forums. Physicians also browse these chat sites to understand concerns, symptoms, and beliefs of patients that might not be revealed to the physician due to fear. This paper presents a series of visualization themes applied 
to patient-generated data to allow for the exploration of these data. The themes we address are clustering, history, and sentiment. We describe the process used to extract and prepare the data for visualization and conclude with a discussion of the visualizations and their use for a specific health community    1. Introduction  A growing number and variety of health resources are available online, ranging from dedicated commercial health websites such as WebMD to specialized health sites such as CHFpatients.com to personal groups found on Yahoo or IRC. A recent study by the Pew Internet and American Life Project 
found that 80% of Internet users have searched for health information online, on topics ranging from diseases and medical problems to environmental health hazards to Medicare and health insurance 9  These topics are reflected in a health site that we have been studying related to congestive heart failure, CHFpatients.com. The topics discussed in the forums on this site range from information-seeking behavior such as finding information on drugs or treatment regimens to opinion gathering on drugs 
hospitals, and doctors, to providing support including bereavement Discussions in social forums go beyond pure information seeking. People explore and read them to find a community of peers to share experiences commiserate with, and ask opinions. Recent studies have shown that a person s relationship with others or social network is relevant to phenomena such as smoking cessation and onset of obesity  a s  also been shown that support groups are increasingly important in the treatment of chronic illness such as 
CHF Facebook, MySpace, and Orkut are examples of burgeoning social networking spaces. However, little to no data are available on the use of social networking sites for healthcare information. There is commercial interest, as evidenced in the startup PatientsLikeMe. While the topic of health as a social networking site theme is nascent, there are numerous other groups, message forums, and other online communities where people may gather. As of May 25, 2008, there were 162,742 health-related groups on Yahoo Health 1  Current social forums provide a venue for people 
within a community to discuss and share ideas However, such communities can be difficult to navigate, making it hard for a new user to find necessary information or people. In particular, sites dealing with personal, sensitive health information can be especially daunting. A newcomer joining such a community might find it difficult to immediately understand the social mores of the new social space the appropriate conversation topics, and the size and demographic of the audience involved Our research aims to provide a 
face for these sites, such that the audience will understand what space they are entering, how many people are involved, what topics are addressed, how people are similar to them, and how the experiences of the community members catalyze interaction. In   1 Counted from groups at http://groups.yahoo.com Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


particular, we focus on new methods for exploring and investigating patient derived health data. We do this by providing a series of visualizations that address three specific themes: clustering, history, and sentiment The audience for these visualizations is \(1\he community members of CHFpatients.com or similar communities and \(2\hysicians treating patients in this community. It is commonly understood that patients usually spend a very limited amount of time per year directly interacting with a medical doctor nurse, or health-care system. A typical face-to-face patient-physician encounter is between 15 and 20 minutes long [19  O f t e n th i s is a n in su f f i ci e n t amount of time for a physician to go over all aspects of a patient s medical history, leading to patient questions and dissatisfaction when visiting a physician. Twenty-nine percent of the population who use the Internet report that not having time with their doctor is one of the top most frustrating health care experiences  Furthermore, it is well known to physicians that patients with chronic conditions spend time on the internet to learn about their condition through exploration and discussion in chat groups T h is  patient-generated information is useful to the patient community and their health care. We try to leverage such data with this work Physicians are further interested in these sites because they believe patients fear lecturing from clinicians. Therefore, patients may be less than honest about whether they are taking their medication and how much they are taking. This phenomenon is also known as white coat anxiety. Physicians would like to be aware of patient concerns without the patient fearing reprimand from them atien t derived data could help physicians better understand the fears and beliefs of the community with respect to their care Threading of conversations on CHFpatients.com is deep, and the topics evolve from the discussion of drugs to emotive discussions of feelings of pain, loss happiness, and sorrow. The evocative nature of the site is not easily seen in current reading interfaces or existing social networking visualizations. We believe that this is a large component of the community that is ever changing and needs to be represented and addressed To address this issue, we mine the chat sessions on CHFpatients.com for common topics Specifically, we began by automatically extracting drug names and their corresponding outcomes in the form of side effects and attitude towards them. These features are then used to drive the visualizations With these visualizations, the patient and medical community will be able to   Explore patient-derived data about drugs symptoms, family, and community concerns  Uncover sentiment relationships over time in the community  Apply statistical methods on these data in a simple manner to gain insights about the data  Use the data as a training set to validate future groupings of drug regimens and symptoms  This paper is organized in the following manner We begin by discussing work related to our visualization approach. Then, we describe CHF and the CHF community we are studying. The three visualization themes and the methodology used to organize the visualization data are discussed next We conclude with a discussion of the pros and cons of the visualization approaches and directions for future work  2. Background and Related Work  Information visualization is the computerassisted use of visual processing to gain understanding  e o f th e g o als of i n f o r m atio n visualization are to \(i\give users a deeper understanding of data, \(ii\courage the discovery of details and relations that would be difficult to notice otherwise, and \(iii\upport the recognition of relevant patterns by exploiting the visual recognition capability of visualization is a subset of information visualization that specifically deals with information about people, for people 14  The majority of medical visualizations, to date deal with problems such as image acquisition and processing \(for example Magnetic Resonance Imaging scans or Computer Aided Tomography images til rece n t l y  h i storical patie n t data  have been located at various medical facilities and have been archived inconsistently. Currently, sites like Google Health 2 and MicrosoftHealth 3 allow individuals to create an archive of their own history At the moment, these sites are for patient s personal use. There is no visualization or relationship to community. They are useful for patients to find personal health-related patterns; however, they have little connection to outside sources   2 https://www.google.com/health 3 http://www.healthvault.com Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


In a similar vein, the LifeLines project visualizes a patient s personal health history. This work is seminal in the area of timeline health visualization  It v i s u al izes a patient s medical history as a timeline, depicting relevant events broken into various categories such as problems, allergies, and lab pathology. This differs from our visualizations in several ways. The data used to generate the LifeLines visualization are gathered from a patient s medical record, not from publicly-accessible message board postings. Second, instead of a visualization for a single patient, we anonymize patient data and aggregate it over many people Although they do not present health information the visualization approach used by Viégas and Smith for Authorlines presented the same information from two perspectives t h orlin es v i s u a lized Us e n et  groups using two visualizations: One focused on individual author posting information; the other focused on characteristics of the group posting as a whole. Seeing the same data from two perspectives can highlight patterns that one might not observe from only one vantage point Similarly, the CodeSaw visualization h o w ed  author timeline information in an open source community. The CodeSaw visualization gleaned its data from that group s open source CVS archive and associated public mailing list. This led members of the community to reflect on timing patterns and allowed for them to message each other and further discuss their progress, bugs, and deadlines The approach we are taking contrasts with other approaches such as PatientsLikeMe, in that we do not ask patients to fill out a questionnaire about drugs side effects, and mood. Completing forms can often be time consuming; continually updating forms requires the discipline of routine visits and additions to the form. For our visualizations, we derive the data from existing conversation archives. We would like the extraction of such information to be automatic and invisible to the user. Our approach may also alleviate skewed data due to the Hawthorne effect. It remains to be seen if an extraction-based approach is as accurate as an explicit form-based one such as PatientsLikeMe  3. Community  The CHFpatients site discusses topics relating to Congestive Heart Failure. CHF is the leading cause of mortality in the United States H F occu rs  when the heart does not pump enough oxygenated blood through the body. It is a chronic illness, an ongoing condition in which a patient may live with the illness for the rest of their lives. 96% of CHF patients have one or more co-morbidities \(illnesses at the same time 1  The chronic nature of CHF lends itself to support groups and communities where people develop longterm relationships. While there are numerous resources including newsgroups on the topic of CHF the CHFpatients community and website is unique in that it is one of the larger forums and has an ongoing established community The CHFpatients community consists of over 10,884 messages and 1,100 people, many who have been involved since 1999. The messages are on a variety of topics, ranging from advice about medicine to bereavement over a loved one. This group is somewhat unique in that the moderator spell checks and edits the messages for clarity. Sometimes the moderator will also include comments at the end of posts and append links to disambiguate drug names The following is a sample message that was anonymized from the message archives Link></Link> indicates that the moderator inserted a link into the message Hi All, I need your input. I'm having about 27,000 extra pre-ventricular beats in a 24 hour period, per a Holter monitor test. My electrophysiologist and cardiologist agree that I should go on <Link>sotalol</Link Betapace. They are putting me in the hospital on February 26 to titrate me up on it. I've refused the drug in the past because it is such a dangerous drug Is there anyone out there who could give me an idea of how you've done on this drug? I'd sure appreciate hearing about your experiences. Thanks so much  The moderator s additions suggest a dedication to, and personal stake in, this community Many members post bios with demographic information including location, age, gender, and a description of their condition. For example, a user posted the following about herself CHF hypothryoidism. hypertension, type 2 diabetes, breast cancer, sleep apnea, emphysema Members in the community are eager to share support and information. These sentiments are echoed in the results of a Pew study of Internet users with chronic conditions  4. Visualizations  The visualizations we present in this paper fall into three themes: clustering, history, and sentiment We present them in the following subsections   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


  4.1 Clustering  The goal of this visualization theme is to cluster similar information together. That is, we want to cluster people together with similar medications. This is the people-centric view. Users can also cluster families of drugs, including generic substitutions as well as common drug combinations Figure 1 depicts one such visualization. Specific drugs are represented as square nodes. The most discussed drugs appear in the center. Drugs that are infrequently talked about or not talked about in conjunction with other drugs appear near the edge of the graph. Drugs that are highly talked about and/or talked about in conjunction with other drugs appear near the center of the graph. Circular nodes connected to the drugs represent people discussing that drug in the forum. From this overview, we can see at a glance the general size of the forum, the number of drugs discussed, and the most talked about medications. Users can further zoom in and explore details of the visualization It is not assumed that anyone who is on a drug discusses it in a post. Conversely, it is also not assumed that when a person mentions a drug, they are taking it. However, we have noted that people who post about particular drugs are often taking them, especially if they frequently mention the drug or complain about its side effects. Many messages are anecdotes of experiences on particular drugs Figure 2 depicts a zoomed-in view of a selected drug, in this case, Nitro-time. Nitro-time is a timerelease version of nitroglycerin, a vasodilator for relaxing blood vessels to reduce blood pressure. This is a commonly-used drug for CHF patients. When a drug is selected in the visualization, the nodes of people discussing the drug are highlighted in red. In this manner, the user can see what segment of the population is interested in or knowledgeable about that drug This visualization uses a Fruchterman-Reingold FR\yout algorithm that attempts to produce aesthetically-pleasing, two-dimensional pictures of graphs by doing simplified simulations of physical systems. We are concerned with drawing undirected graphs according to some generally accepted aesthetic criteria: 1. Distribute the vertices evenly in the frame. 2. Minimize edge crossings. 3. Make edge lengths uniform. 4. Reflect inherent symmetry. 5 Conform to the frame 10 This form of visualization is suited to large overviews for general information. It is meant to be a starting point for further exploration   4.2 Hist o ry  The previous visualization showed all the information for the entire time span of the forum. If a user wants to explore time-based patterns, a timebased visualization is more appropriate. Figure 3 is a rendering of people s drug notations over reconfigurable durations of time The vertical axis lists member names 4 in   4 Names have been altered for this publication Figure 1 Overview of CHFpatients forum. Circular nodes represent users in the forum. Square nodes represent drugs. The size of the square nodes is proportional to the number of people discussing that drug Figure 2 Zoomed view of Figure 1. When a drug is selected, in this case, Nitro-time, the user can see all the members who have discussed this drug in the forum highlighted in red Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


alphabetical order followed by select drugs that have been mentioned by that member. The visualization user can select specific drugs that they are interested in, exploring from the left frame of the interface panel. This panel contains a tree representation of all of the drugs that are found within the messages. Drug categories indicated in Section 5 are expandable revealing the drugs within each category as leaves The horizontal axis of the visualization represents time. The viewer can select the time span they wish to see using the sliders on the bottom left of the interface. The red dots appearing after the drug name on the horizontal axis represent the first mention of that drug by that person. This design decision will be further commented on in the discussion section In this visualization, viewers can explore which members discuss the same drugs, and at what point they start discussing them. A series of dots on the same vertical axis could imply that these two members are having a conversation \(as can be seen in Figure 3 This visualization made several patterns salient that might otherwise have been missed or taken longer to deduce  1  Each patient talks about relatively few of the referenced drugs in the forum 2  Few users talked about new drugs after 2004 3  Patients initially talk about several drugs, with the mention of new drugs tapering over time 4  Drug regimens change over time as the state of CHF progresses  One can hypothesize that unless people are having problems with their current treatment, they do not talk about new drugs. If a person is having trouble, they may talk about several drugs at a time while they learn about different drug combinations One can imagine that a patient might be prescribed an ACE Inhibitor. However, there are several of them such as Zestril, Vasotec, and Accupril. The patient may question the differences between them, much like asking the differences between types of pain killers such as Bayer, Advil, and Tylenol The visualization provides facilities to view the addition of drugs over a period of time. Different classes of drugs added over time may indicate a patient s regimen. Often patients with CHF will take multiple types of drugs to combat CHF on different levels. Patients show a keen interest in other patients following the same drug regimens. A historical visualization could make it easier to compare patients at a glance, as well as to explore time progressions of regimens The CHFpatients.com forum is not simply a community that discusses drug symptoms. The dialog is infused with personal history, care satisfaction, and emotive concerns. This theme is not explored in the previous two visualizations. The following theme sentiment, explores not only drugs taken over time but augments this with a measure of sentiment, or level of polarity: positive or negative    4.3  Sentiment  One technique used to measure the effectiveness of a drug is quantifying the side effects that it produces. Sentiment analysis is another way in which we can determine drug satisfaction. A drug may have many serious side effects, yet people may still have a positive attitude towards it, especially if they believe it helps them in some way [17   Figure 4 is a visualization that looks at aggregate sentiment of the forum over time to help assess the state of community. This can help determine if the prevailing genre of messages within that time period are complaints versus information seeking questions consoling, or optimistic support. The horizontal axis represents time. The top light-green set of rectangles represents drug mentions. The bottom set of blue rectangles represents a measure of overall symptoms The thick waveform is a measure of aggregate community sentiment. When a user selects a portion of the aggregate graph, two vertical bar graphs appear below the graph. The left bar graph is a representation of all drug mentions within the selected time period. The thicker a bar, the greater the percentage of drug mentions attributed to that drug Figure 3 Rendering of the first time a drug is mentioned by users of the CHFpatients.com forum Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


The right bar graph represents all of the side effects within the selected time period. The area corresponding to a side effect represents the percentage of mentions about that side effect. When a user moves their mouse over a portion of the graph the drug name or side effect name appear to the left or right of the graph, respectively. This can be seen in Figure 4; the drug Coumadin is selected when the mouse is over that section of the graph The natural language processing we are currently using is not sufficient to determine if a person s sentiment is towards the drugs mentioned within the message. However, we can gauge to some degree whether or not people are positive or negative over specific intervals of time. Attitude is an important aspect of treatment, especially for chronic illness Even if we do not know whether the positive or negative attitude is attributable to a particular drug, it may be possible to make deductions in certain circumstances Attitude and understanding by heart failure patients can have a significant effect on how they function, live with their disease, and potentially even affect their outcome  It is es peciall y  important to determine people s attitude in the chronic illness environment. It is estimated that 43 of CHF patients suffer from depression Therefore, the ability to track attitudes of large populations of CHF or other chronic illness patients is helpful to predict and improve care regimens The average sentiment in Figure 4 is very negative at the bottom of the line graph and neutral near the median. It is interesting to note that although 40% of people with CHF are thought to have depression e s e n t i m e n t an al y s is sh o w s t h at on average, the sentiments in the group are neutral to positive. As a collective, they are rarely negative. As of yet, although there is no explicit evaluation of the sentiment analysis software, the scores appear consistent with those of a support group. That is while a person may complain or seek support in a negative manner, many others may reply with positive messages of encouragement and support  5  Methodology and Implementation  Another contribution of this work is the development of a toolkit to extract easily the information necessary for the visualizations mentioned previously. This extraction is facilitated by the creation of disk-based data structures and efficient algorithms that can scale to many messages Initially, archived messages were downloaded from the CHFpatients website using wget. The pages are html aggregates of individual messages. A parser was then created to extract individual messages from the archive. After the individual messages were extracted, header information containing the name of the person who sent the messages, as well as thread history, was analyzed. This information was used to generate a stop word list of people names that would be removed at index time The open source information retrieval package Lucene was used to create an index. This inverted index facilitated the extraction of useful information from the messages, such as drugs and side effects The resulting data structure allows iterative passes through messages and message access via key words Modifications to Lucene were made so that wordbased ngrams could be indexed Ngrams are multiple word terms. Indexed ngrams range in size from 1 to 4grams; stop words such as the/and/or do not start or stop an ngram. In this manner, ngrams with little information content over smaller ngrams would be removed. For example there is little difference between the ngram the world trade center and world trade center Figure Figure 4 Visualization of aggregate community sentiment over time. The green rectangular bars represent drug mentions. The blue rectangular bars represent symptoms. The dark blue waveform is a measure of sentiment. The bottom two bar graphs appear when a section from the top graph is selected. Drug mentions within the time frame appear on the left graph and side effect mentions appear on the right  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


5 illustrates the resulting ngrams for the phrase the glass of red wine which include: glass, red, wine glass of red, glass of red wine, and red wine. Ngrams are useful because many drugs, such as Beta Blocker  and ACE Inhibitor or side effects, such as painful urination consist of multiple words and are not necessarily meaningful if only one component is found  Figure 5 NGrams extracted for ...the glass of red wine..." are underlined The individual terms of the ngrams were stemmed using a Porter stemmer variant. Stemming involves normalizing words; for example, walks, walking, and walk are all about the same concept; these terms would all be stemmed to the same term. This removes some of the variation in the resulting lexicon According to Luhn, the most significant words are the mid-frequently occurring ones e u s ed  heuristics to remove the lowest frequency terms; for example 1grams that occurred in fewer than 8 messages and ngrams that occurred in fewer than 4 messages were removed. The high frequency terms were filtered using stop words, words that occur frequently and have little information content, such as the, is, and, or  A taxonomy of common CHF drugs was created by a local medical doctor, consisting of 214 drugs in several categories, including: Beta Blockers, ACE Inhibitors, Diuretics, Vasodilators, Endothelin Blockers, Thrombin Inhibitor, Phosphodiesterase-III Inhibitors, Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonist Calcium Sensitizer, Cholesterol Lowering Drugs, and Nitrate. These categories were selected because they represent a constructible, bounded-size, constrained vocabulary. Of these 214 drugs, 75 were found in the CHFpatients archive. One initial task of this research is to evaluate the viability of extracting known CHF drug regimens from the message group A list of 364 common side effects was also created. These were generated from both the messages themselves and the drug interaction/side effect information available through manufacturers of the drugs. The side effects were filtered for more colloquial terminology thought to be found within the messages as opposed to more technical medical terminology for example chills versus temperature regulation problems  The messages were analyzed for sentiment using a Naïve Bayesian classifier built in Weka 5 a data mining and machine learning toolkit. The classifier uses ngram-based features and is trained on the Rotten Tomatoes movie review corpus 6 The Rotten Tomatoes movie review corpus consists of 1,000 positive and 1,000 negatively processed one-sentence reviews of movies It is questionable whether or not the training data are applicable to the health message domain However, the data are easily accessible and were thus used for this preliminary work to build the system We are currently in the process of creating domainspecific training data  6. Discussion and Future Work  The visualizations presented in this paper were created from patient-derived data from the forum CHFpatients.com. The interface for the conversation forum can be seen in Figure 6. The data in this forum are public. Although the information is easily accessible, the visualizations make some information salient that might not otherwise be observable. For example, the visualization allows one to see the number of people and the popularity of drugs at a glance, and provides the ability to locate cohorts who take similar sets of drugs. The point of the visualizations is to explore possible correlations and patterns in the community without having to remember everything that was already stated in conversation over a period of several years   5 http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka 6 http://www.cs.cornell.edu/people/pabo/moviereview-data the glass of red wine  Figure 6 Snapshot of conversation on CHFpatients.com Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


Each of the visualization themes discussed has some advantages and limitations. In the future, we envision them being used in concert, such that interacting with one of the three will show corresponding data on the other two on the same display. In a sense, this is akin to forensic community mining  6.1 Clustering View  The clustering layout algorithm tends to place drugs that few people talk about near the edge of the screen, indicating at a glance which drugs have the most people taking them. The layout algorithm also places drugs together that are in the same class or are used interchangeably. For example, Natrecor and Prinivil \(both ACE inhibitors\Bid, NitroTime, Nitro-Par, and Nitro-Dur are packed together in a tight cluster; this can be seen in Figure 7 The advantage of this style is that groupings of drugs can be found visually. It is possible that clustering would also group drugs in the same regimen together, but that is beyond the scope of this work. This visualization might enable medical professionals to discern possible drug regimens by visual inspection. For example, Digoxin and Captopril were found close together, suggesting that they might be used together. Figure 7 depicts these two drugs highlighted in red. This drug combination is especially good. The overlap of these drugs within the visualization indicates a high degree of overlap between the people who take both drugs. The combination has been validated in a clinical study where the two drugs were tested togeth  validating the visualization with known drug combinations, physicians hope to uncover potential combinations with larger scale untested data As stated in section 4.1, this view allows one to see the size of the CHFpatients.com community. It also allows one to see the number and types of drugs that are discussed One can imagine a scenario where a newly diagnosed CHF patient may not know which drugs are commonly prescribed. The visualization can reassure the patient if they see that they have been prescribed a common CHF drug. Conversely, doubts might arise about their condition or physician if a rarely-used drug is prescribed This visualization has several limitations. First, it is difficult to read all of the drugs and patient names in the overview. There exists a lot of overlapping data. This issue is amplified as the number of people and drugs increase. Zooming in and out aids in legibility, but it can cause viewers to lose their bearings in the spatial layout. Another limitation is that the data are depicted as an aggregate over all time to date. Future versions will have a time slider to show how the community grows or shrinks over time and how drugs are added over time Future extensions of the visualization will allow for shading of edges based on distance and other layout algorithms. We are exploring methods for trimming both people and drugs based on number of connections and occurrences  6.2 History View  The history-based visualization allows the viewer to explore patient and drug data over time. One can find patients taking the same or similar drug regimen In the conversation archives, people have bonded when experiencing similar symptoms at the same time. Using this interface, patients might also provide support through past experiences. Drug patterns emerge even if they are not used at the exact point in time With this visualization, we highlight the first mention of a drug as opposed to every mention of it We postulate that the first mention of drug within the forum is an important time marker. We observed that people often start talking about a drug when it is prescribed, are wondering about side effects, or are thinking about starting treatment with the drug. If no further mentions of the drug occur, the patient may Figure 7 The drugs Captopril and Digoxin enclosed in the green box are hypothesized to be a possible drug regimen due to their closeness and overlapping nei g hbors  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


be satisfied with it until another drug in the same family appears, or a new regimen appears Alternatively, participants could talk about a drug they stopped taking long ago in response to questions others have about it. We do not label any durations of drug use in the visualization, because we cannot conclusively prove them. We allow the users to make their own assumptions as they explore deeper into the data. We hope that the visualization further catalyzes questions and discussions in the forum In future visualizations, we will allow viewers to choose whether they would like to see the first mention of a drug or all mentions of a drug This visualization has limitations in its field of view. One cannot view a seven-year period at one glance; the user must scroll through the data. We are considering a syncing feature, where one can view first mentions of the same drug by several people at the same time to observe possible patterns over varied dates over the years  6.3 Sentiment View  Further work on testing and developing training data specific to health messages is necessary Additionally, we would like to extend the visualization to show time periods below the graph so that one might be able to make hypothesis about the correlation of sentiment with a given time of year for example, to see if average group sentiment declines during holiday seasons or if the opposite is true We are also interested in tracking the sentiment of individual users over time. It is hard to compare the sentiment of one user to another, and group sentiment analysis may not be accurate. We hope to monitor the sentiment analysis of a user over time and determine if it correlates to their feelings about their current treatment situation, and how the two co-vary We are currently developing named entity recognizers for treatments and side effects so that we do not have to rely on hand generating lists of treatments and side effects. We have also begun preliminary work on much larger datasets consisting of more messages and numerous groups With these additions, we plan to conduct a series of user studies with members of CHFpatients and local medical doctors to assess the efficacy and usefulness of the visualizations The full value of free text will become apparent when the natural language processing becomes more powerful.  Medical questionnaires are limited to extracting answers from the questions asked, whereas health messages may contain information on a wide variety of topics.  Currently, we extract exact names of drug regimens and side effects, in a similar fashion to existing questionnaire-based systems.   This is a measure of medical outcomes, in an objective fashion.  The sentiment analysis is a subjective measure of how the patient is feeling, e.g. there may be major side effects but they are still happy to have reduced levels of pain As the depth of extraction increases, the sentiment view will evolve into broad measures of outcomes of medical treatments.  The types of outcomes might range greatly, from reduction of pain to clarity of thought, and the types of treatments might range greatly, from diet and exercise to stressreduction and spirituality.  The effective path towards chronic illness requires monitoring the full range of lifestyle conditions and managing the full range of lifestyle change  Enabling patients to describe their own conditions in their own language is greatly superior to electronic medical records in hospitals or even personal health records in homes.  As customary with information systems supporting persistent conversation, the topics and the moods can situationally vary for the environments and the individuals Working with health messages simulates the future world of health monitors, where persons respond continuously to questions in their everyday lives.  The monitors record vectors for each person which can be assembled into groups across populations, so that persons can manage their health based on actual experiences from similar persons in similar situations.  The present research is thus just a taste of the future of social networking in healthcare infrastructure  7. Acknowledgements  We would like to thank Richard Berlin, M.D. for the assistance in generating the CHF drug taxonomy and evaluating possible drug regimens.  We would also like to thank Eric Gilbert for the use of his trained sentiment model and pointers to sentiment corpora.  This work was partially funded by the National Science Foundation through FIBR-BIO grant 0425852 for the BeeSpace project www.beespace.uiuc.edu  8. References  1 J. B. Bra unste i n G  F. A nde rso n  G   G e rte nblith, W   Willer, M. Niefeld, R. Herbert, and A. W. Wu Noncardiac comorbidity increases preventable hospitalizations and mortality among medicare beneficiaries with chronic heart failure J. Am. Coll Cardiol., 2003, 42 pp. 1226-1233 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 2 R.Berlin M.D P e rso n al co mm u n icatio n  A u g u st 2 5   2008  3 R. Be rlin a nd B. Sc ha tz  Internet health monitors for outcomes of chronic illness Medscape General Medicine, 1999, Sep. 2:E9  4 R. Be rlin a nd B Sc ha tz  Monitoring of quality of life for congestive heart failure populations Congestive Heart Failure, Jan/Feb 2001, 7\(1\pp. 13-23  5   Chitta ro Information visualization and its application to medicine Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, 2001, 22\(2\ pp. 81-88   N A  Ch ristakis an d J H F o w l er  Collective dynamics of smoking behavior New England Journal of Medicine, 2008, 358\(21\ pp. 2249-2258   N A  Ch ristakis an d J H F o w l er  The spread of obesity in a large social network over 32 years New England Journal of Medicine, 2007, 357\(4\pp. 370379  8 F o x   E-patients with a disability or chronic disease The Pew Internet & American Life Project http://www.pewinternet.org accessed, August 28 2008  9 F o x   Health information online The Pew Internet American Life Project. http://www.pewinternet.org accessed, August 28, 2008  10  T  M.J  Fruc hte r m a n a nd E  M. R e i n g o ld  Graph drawing by force-directed placement SoftwarePractice and Experience, 1991, 21\(11\p. 1129-1164  11  E. G ilbe r t and K  K a r a ha lios   CodeSaw: A social visualization of distributed software development In Proceedings of INTERAC, 2007  12 P   L u h n  The automatic creation of literature abstracts IBM Journal, 1958, 4 pp. 159-165  13 B. P itt a nd S G o ldste i n The captopril-digoxin multicenter research group study on the comparative steps of captopril and digoxin in patients with mildmoderate heart failure: Implications for therapy  Cardiovascular Drugs and Therapy, 1989, 3 pp. 7-9  14 K. Ka ra ha lios a n d F V i  g a s  Social visualization Exploring text, audio, and video interaction ACM Computer-Human Interaction, 2006  1  B   P a n g an d L Lee  Opinion mining and sentiment analysis Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval, 2008, 2\(1 2\ 1-135  16 C P l a i s a nt, R  M u s h li n, A  Sny d e r J  L i D  H e lle r, B  Shneiderman LifeLines: Using visualization to enhance navigation and analysis of patient records  Proc American Medical Informatics Association Annual Fall Symposium, AMIA, 1998, pp. 76-80  17 M. Silv e r S u c c e ss w ith He a r t Fa ilure  P e rse u s Publishing, Cambridge, MA, 2002  18  H  T a y l or a nd R. L e itm a n  Study reveals big potential for the internet to improve doctor-patient relations  Health Care News; Harris Interactive, 8 Jan 2001, 1\(1 pp. 1-3  1 J M  T r aval i n e R Ru ch i n skas G  E  D Alonzo Patient-physician communication: Why and how  JAOA, Jan 2005, 105\(1\ pp. 13-18   20  F Vi g a s a nd M Sm ith Newsgroup crowds and authorlines: Visualizing the activity of individuals in conversational cyberspaces HICSS-37, Hawaii, HI January 5-8, 2004  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  Ambulatory Care Management, 2001; 24\(1 pp.67-83    S  H. Bro w n M.J L i n c ol n  P.J. Groen  an d R.M. Kolodner VistA U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs National-Scale HIS  International Journal of Medical Informatics, 2003; 69, pp.135-56    M. Jaan a, M.M. W a rd, G P a ré, an d D Wakefield Clinical Information Technology in Hospitals: A Comparison between the State of Iowa and two Provinces in Canada International Journal of Medical Informatics, 2005; 74\(9 pp.719-31    M.M. W a rd, M Jaan a, J.A  Bah e n s ky  S Vartak, and D.S. Wakefield Clinical Information System Availability and Use in Urban and Rural Hospitals Journal of Medical Systems, 2006; 30\(6\, pp.429-38    M. Jaan a, M.M. W a r d G P a ré, an d C   Sicotte Antecedents of Clinical Information Technology Sophistication in Hospitals Health Care Management Review, 2006; 31\(4\p.289-99    G.A  Jr. Chu rch i l l  A Paradigm for Developing Better Measures of Marketing Constructs Journal of Marketing Research 1979; 16, pp.64-73  23  A  P i nso nne a u l t  a n d K  L K r e a m e r   Survey Research Methodology in Management Information Systems: An Assessment  Journal of Management Information Systems, 1993; 10\(2\ pp.75-105  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 11 


  Functional IT Capacities                    Technological IT Capacities         Integration        Clinical Support Applications  Laboratory IS  Radiology IS  Pharmacy IS  PACS Patient Management Applications  Operating room management system Emergency room system  Critical care systems Patient chart tracking system  Master patient index \(MPI  ADT system Administrative Applications  Accounting / Financial IS  Staff scheduling system Disease costing E-commerce / B2B applications Business intelligence system Human resources Material management systems Financial / Clinical dashboards   Clinical Applications  Nursing documentation system Electronic discharge summary E-learning Clinical documentation system Order entry / Results reporting Telemedicine Continuing quality improvement Computerized physician order entry Electronic dictation Clinical decision support systems On-line access to knowledge base Contemporary Clinical and Administrative Technologies  Medical record scanning  Single sign-on technology  Bedside terminals Biometry    Bar coding medication management Voice recognition Bar coding materials management Bar coding patient identification RFID Administrative data warehouse Clinical data warehouse Portable computing / wireless devices Robots \(medication preparation dispensing Internal  Enterprise resource planning  Electronic medical record External  With acute care organizations With long term care organizations With primary care organizations With medical clinics Appendix A: Overview of the items included in the proposed IT capacities assessment tool     Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 12 


  13  Use of Web Technologies The web development effort involved a long learning curve for some of the RDE Upgrade development team HTML We used HyperText Markup Language \(HTML\o layout the web framework and page structures AJAX/JSON  The AJAX \(asynchronous JavaScri pt and XML\tern was introduced to support a responsive web GUI.  An implementation of JSON \(JavaScript Object Notation provides the data service inte rface from the web client to a tomcat-maintained servlet. We have run into very few issues with this technology 10 11 12  CSS Cascading Style Sheets \(CSS\provide a straightforward way to manage web page styles. The language is well supported through the open-source FireBug Edito 14  JavaScript We used JavaScript to provide a rich interactive web interface, however our experien ce with JavaScript was not entirely favorable.   The Java Script \(JS approach to APIs including widgets led to our implementing more JS code than we might otherwise have.  We found the 223typeless\224 language occasionally caused confusion.  We did find that it could be \223made to provide\224 a rich web interface though probably a heavier interface than it needs to be.  One real positive for JS is the huge volume of sample code available on the Internet, saving time when dealing with the many implementation problems that spring up JasperReport  We used a toolkit called JasperReport to build a database report we could execute from our web interface.  A JasperReport is edited using the iReport tool. When the report is opened, the JasperSoft library is executed which updates each field from the database and presents the updated report The next section describes some of the \223analysis views\224 that can be generated from data in the RDE store 5  R ELAY A CCOUNTABILITY A NALYSIS  From the start of the Phoenix mission through the current day the RDE tool has been us ed primarily to extract pass statistics for reporting.  The key primary tracked statistic is the total volume of data delivered by each relay spacecraft Typically the \223Export Volumes\224 web view is used for a 223quick\224 export of these data, though the \223General Query\224 view can also be used for this purpose.  Raw tabular data are exported in Comma Separated Value \(CSV\at and then normally imported into an Excel spreadsheet for charting Figure 6 shows the total volume over time from the start of Phoenix mission \(Sol 0\o Sol 120, about a month past the end of prime mission Cumulative Return Link Data Volume 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 0 30 60 90 120 Sol MRO Cumulative Ret Fill DV MRO Cumulative Ret PHX DV ODY Cumulative Ret Fill DV ODY Cumulative Ret PHX DV   Figure 6 \226 Cumulative Return Link Volume Figure 7 shows the same data values, but charted to show the total data volume transmitted per Sol  Return Link Data Volume by Sol PHX Lander Data + Fill Data 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 0 30 60 90 120 Sol ODY Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits MRO Ret Data Volume \(PHX Data + Fill bits  Figure 7 \226 Data Volume By Sol  On Figure 6 and Figure 7, the Phoenix Data Volume \(DV shown represents actual telemetry data and science product delivered.  The Fill DV on both figures represents \223fill\224 frames that are transmitted when a relay link is open but no actual lander data is available to transmit.  This chart shows that the Odyssey mission has carried the most part of 


  14 Phoenix relay data over MRO.  The low MRO volumes at the very early end of the chart are due to early MRO communications issues with Phoenix that were not resolved until later in the mission.  The volume discrepancies are clearly visible from both charts Figure 8 shows the data volumes for the 128K overflights as a function of Mars LMST \(Local Mean Solar Time 128 kbps Return Link Data Rate 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 0:00:00 6:00:00 12:00:00 18:00:00 0:00:00 Local Mean Solar Time ODY MRO PHX Re q uirement:  30 Mb p ass  Figure 8 \226 Data Volume By Sol  Figure 9 shows a comparison of data volume predicts vs pass performance values  Figure 9 \226 Volume Predicts vs. Performance  6  C ONCLUSIONS  For ASC, the next step is to achieve a level of database independence.  We look to take advantage of emerging best practices technologies and patterns \(e.g. Hibernate  t o  upgrade our core server function to database independence and our Agent Framework to take advantage of a workflow execution function or language such as the Business Process execution Language \(BPEL  RDE is planned for update with the Mars Science Laboratory \(MSL\ission.  This will include any required updates to the planning input s \(MSL will utilize a wider range of relay parameters, including higher data rates multiple frequency channels and possibly new modulation and coding schemes and adaptive data rate functionality and a likely major change in the handling of predicts One significant additional RDE improvement proposed is to develop a web-based tactical interface supporting pass utilization requests and tacti cal updates.  Currently, all tactical relay coordination is accomplished via email and phone.  This process could be greatly improved with the upgrade to of a web-based system.  However, if adopted this upgrade would have a large impact on the current operational tactical process and thus must be carefully engineered across a broad user base  Overall we found we were able to accomplish our primary relay accountability goals using our chosen architecture The ASC server held up as a useful way to manage objectrelational transactions over a distributed network, and our event-driven client mechan isms were assembled in a straightforward manner using the existing ASC Agent Framework as well as the DOM message reactor function Our ability to accomplish this broad integration at a consistently low level of funding tells us that these technologies and patterns are worth pursuing as part of further accountability prototype pilot, and deployment activities A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The work described in this paper was conducted at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Californi a Institute of Technology under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  The authors wish to further acknowledge other individuals who made key contributions to research and development including Marti DeMore, Lloyd DeForrest, Derek Kiang Ashley Shamilian, Lori Nakamura, Mark Palm, Priscilla Parrish and Mike Tankenson  


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


