  Justifying the Decisions for EAI Adoption in LGAs: A Validated Proposition of Factors, Adoption Lifecycle Phases, Mapping and Prioritisation of Factors    Muhammad Mustafa Kamal Department of Information Systems and Computing Brunel University, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, UK Muhammad.Kamal@brunel.ac.uk  Marinos Themistocleous Department of Technology Education and Digital Systems University of Piraeus Greece mthemist@unipi.gr Vincenzo Morabito Bocconi University Viale Isonzo, 23 
20135 Milano Italy Vincenzo.Morabito@unibocconi.it   Abstract  Local Government Authorities \(LGAs\re responsible for providing reliable services and information to their citizens. However, literature indicates that LGAs ha ve problems in meeting citizens demands. This may be attributed to the Information Technology \(IT\ infrastructure limitations in LGAs that are not integrated and do not allow them to deliver end-to-end integrated services. The reason is that legacy Information Systems \(IS\ are usually tailored to support specific business processes and functions and are difficult to 
integrate. This gives rise to a need for an integrated IT infrastructure that facilitates reuse of existing applications and flexibly implementing business processes. Enterprise Application Integration \(EAI has emerged to address the intra- and interorganisational integration in a more flexible and manageable way. Nevertheless, its application in LGAs is limited.  Thus, the authors demonstrate that it is of high importance to investigate this area within LGAs and result in research that contributes towards successful EAI adoption. In addressing the relative void, this paper proposes and validates a novel model for EAI adoption in LGAs and contributes to the body 
of knowledge by extending the literature. The proposed model can be used by LGAs as a tool for decision making while adopting EAI  1. Introduction  The lack of common organisational-wide IT infrastructure has resulted in the development of a diversity of disparate applications within LGAs. The disadvantages of such heterogeneous IT infrastructures are analysed in the literature and include among others: \(a\ high maintenance cost, and b\dundancy and inconsistency G A s  have attempted to overcome these problems by 
interconnecting their disparate applications e.g. by point-to-point interconnection iterat u re  indicates that integration is much more than merely interconnecting the disparate applications and the connectivity of applications was insufficient due to the fact that individual applications were not designed to interoperate with each other [21  Two more basic problems for integration are: \(a each department has several IT applications and each application has its own meaning of different objects e.g. citizens, staff\ and \(b\ch application has data that overlaps data in other applications. This partial 
redundancy generates significant data integrity problems  In the last decade, several public sector organisations \(e.g. LGAs\ turned to Enterprise Resource Planning \(ERP\mplementations in an attempt to surmount the Year 2000 \(Y2K\roblem and automate their business processes lth o u g h  ERP systems have addressed the Y2K problem, they only provide a partial solution for the integration problem h e reas on is  t h at E R P sy s t e m s  w e re not designed to integrate disparate systems but rather to replace them to achieve integration Themistocleous 
et al  e ports th at th ere i s an increasing demand to integrate the IT infrastructures in LGAs. This demand comes from unlike categories of stakeholders in LGAs like employees and managers, citizens, and businesses. All of them seek to ease their transactions with LGAs. In this context LGAs have realised their IT infrastructure limitations and are seeking ways to improve their efficiency, to provide better services to citizens. Literature indicates that government initiatives still need better integration solutions T h e n eed f o r integration may be attributed to several government 
projects that were either never implemented or abandoned immediately after implementation. Due to this many problems such as data integration and security interoperability that are technical in nature remain most apparent at developmental and functional levels [10   LGAs are constrained and face difficulties in: \(a overcoming their organisational and integration Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


 problems, \(b\iding qu ality services to citizens and \(c\mproving their performance and productivity. Literature indicates that governments are increasingly challenged to respond more flexibly to issues confronting local communities [17, 36   Thus, there is a need for a technology that provides a solution to LGAs that attempts to meet their organisations requirements and integration problems Since EAI is a new research area within LGAs, the review on the EAI adoption area indicates gap in the normative literature. For this reason at this point the absence of theoretical model and research regarding its adoption in LGAs is identified as research issue for further investigation. The remaining structure of the paper is as follows: Section 2 proposes a novel conceptual model for EAI adoption in LGAs and discusses on four dimensions incorporated in the model. In Section 3, the authors discuss on the research methodology undertaken. Section 4 presents the case data and tests the research issues. Section 5 discusses and revises the conceptual model and finally summarising the conclusions in Section 6  2. Proposing a Novel Conceptual Model for EAI Adoption in LGAs  Despite several private and public organisations have adopted EAI, its application in LGAs is limited This may show that LGAs develop EAI solutions at a slower pace and they can be characterised as a laggard comparing. The small number of EAI applications in LGAs has resulted in limited research with many issues, like its adoption requiring further research. Literature indicates various models analysing factors influencing EAI adoption in the private and public domain [3, 16, 22  T h e applicability and validity of these models is arguable and under research in LGAs, as these were proposed to support the decision-making process in other sectors and not in LGAs. To the best of the authors  knowledge, none of these existing models explored the mapping and importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases. This paper makes a step forward and contributes to the body of knowledge as it presents the: \(a\factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs, \(b\ lifecycle phases, \(c\mapping of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases and \(d prioritisation of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases. Thus, proposing a novel model for EAI adoption in LGAs. The authors claim that such an EAI adoption process is vital and novel as: it extends established norms for EAI adoption, by employing Analytical Hierarchy Process \(AHP\nique for prioritising the factors, thus, enabling LGAs to produce more robust proposals for EAI adoption  2.1. Factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs  The model comprises of twenty one factors based on the EAI and government literature. For example, factors identified from the EAI literature are cost  benefits  barriers  internal pressures  external pressures  IT infrastructure  IT sophistication, IT support and evaluation frameworks Factors identified from the government literature are formalisation  centralisation  managerial capabilities  project championship  personnel IT knowledge  technological risks  data privacy and security  higher administrative authority support  return on investments  critical mass  market knowledge  citizen satisfaction  size and top management support These factors have been categorised according to Pressure Factors \(PF Technological Factors \(TF\, Support Factors \(SF Financial Factors \(FF\ and Organisational Factors OF\he authors suggest that while adopting EAI in LGAs, realising the factors influencing the decision making process may provide a deeper understanding on EAI adoption process. Thus, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation   Research Issue 1 EAI Adoption Factors Factors can influence the decision making process for EAI adoption in LGAs   2.2. Adoption Lifecycle Phases  Paul et al  ugg es t s th at tec h n o logy adoption can be comprehended as an organisation s decision to acquire a specific technology and make it available to target users for their task performance Adoption lifecycle involves a sequence of distinct and consecutive phases an organisation passes through before taking the decision to adopt a technology t h is reg a rd, R o g e r s 27 explains that adoption lifecycle is the process through which an individual or other decisionmaking unit passes from first knowledge of an innovation, to forming an attitude toward the innovation, to a decision to adopt or reject, to implementation of the new idea, and to confirmation of this decision. Several other researchers proposed different adoption processes h es e research studies illustrate the importance of adoption lifecycles, however, these adoption studies also discuss on phases beyond the adoption phase However, it is not the intent of the authors to discuss on the phases beyond the adoption phase. The reason is that as the current research investigates on EAI adoption not on EAI implementation and other Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  phases ahead of implementation. After analysing the literature [15, 7 th e au t h ors propos e th at f o u r  phases are important while adopting technologies such as: \(a\motivation, \(b\ception, \(c\osal and \(d\ption decision and explained as below Motivation signifies the state when an organisation becomes aware of a technology and attempts to acquire knowledge about the technology This leads to motivating the organisation in ascertaining an attitude towards its adoption [2, 13 15 Conception  refers to a plan of action that the organisation should pursue. In highly innovative organisations presumably this phase is exhibited by several organisational members such as creating an attitude towards technology adoption [2, 13, 15  Proposal  refers to the making a formal proposition for technology adoption to the rest of the organisation [2, 13, 15 Pr opos i n g t h e i n n o v a t i v e  idea to the rest of the organisation is very crucial for making technology adoption decision Adoption Decision  is the actual phase where the organisations take the decision to adopt a specific technology [2 13, 15 T h e ado p tion ph as e s  m i gh t be con s idered while adopting EAI to extend the current research in EAI adoption. Therefore, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation  Research Issue 2 Adoption Lifecycle Phases LGAs can pass through several adoption lifecycle phases while adopting EAI  2.3. Mapping EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  The research conducted hitherto indicates that the process of EAI adoption and use in different sectors [3, 16, 22, 32 T h e e x is t i ng s t u d ies on E A I  adoption have investigated on factors, actors and the causal relationship among and between them. Yet from a conceptual and empirical point of view, none of the existing studies related to EAI adoption has investigated the mapping of the factors influencing EAI adoption process on the adoption lifecycle phases. The authors consider this as a literature gap and report that it is important to manage the EAI adoption process in LGAs. This can be attributed to several reasons e.g.: \(a\I is very often considered as high-risk project [12 b  eration of E A I  technologies o n v ers e l y  L G A s are  characterised as laggards and often resist to the technological changes, however, these changes should thus be managed as their importance in bringing change in the organisation is vital [33, 23   The authors assert that it is vital to study the mapping of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases Along with the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs, their mapping on the adoption lifecycle phases also make a novel contribution at the conceptual level. The authors suggest that while adopting EAI, realising the factors influencing EAI adoption on the adoption lifecycle phases may provide much deeper comprehension to the LGA decision makers. Thus, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation  Research Issue 3 - Mapping EAI Adoption Factors Influential factors for EAI adoption can be mapped on different adoption lifecycle phases to support the decision makers while adopting EAI  2.4. Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  In the context of decision making in LGAs several IT projects involve distributed decisionmaking based on a division of control and powers, as opposed to private organisation that have direct and undivided power over decisions within their span of control [12, 18, 37 G A  s t ru c t u r es  bu s i n e s s  processes and functions are often difficult to change as hierarchical bureaucratic structures often reflect a commitment to outmoded cultural values emphasizing risk aversion and valuing control of functional silos [23, 30 e to th is L G A s  f aced failures in several IT projects and the loss of IT investments resulting from inadequacies in making the business case  a tech n i cal pers pecti v e  EAI projects have many significant differences comparing to other IT projects h e ration a le f o r using EAI is not to build a system from scratch but to piece together multiple incompatible and in many cases heterogeneous applications [31, 17   T hus t h e  emphasis is on the integration of existing systems and not on the development of new systems. EAI projects bring a chain of organisational changes in terms of structure, process control and workflow. These changes are deeper comparing to the other IT projects as they impact multiple systems, departments and employees and organisations itself EAI is recognised as an emerging solution to architecture design integrating previously separated and isolated systems to give them greater leverage and improve their performance [12, 17 s e v e ral  researchers proposing EAI adoption factors, it may appear impractical for LGAs to devote their efforts to Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


 concurrently address and comprehend the factors Partly, this can also be attributed to the lack of indepth understanding and knowledge on EAI in LGAs  T h is m a y requ ire cons i d erin g t h e prioritisation of factors and identifying the importance of factors 19, 30 a m an d C h i n 18] su pport t h at det e r m i n i n g the importance of factors enables organisations to develop priorities and in turn, improve their decision making process. Salmeron and Herrero [30 d  Saaty at org an is at ion s  m a y n e ed to consider the judgements of several individuals while performing the prioritisation of factors. Due to their diverse roles and responsi bilities, backgrounds and objectives, individuals may present different judgements on the prioritisation of the factors [11  T h e div e rs e j u dg e m ents  are accom m odated an d  synthesized by using the AHP technique [19, 30   The existing studies on EAI adoption have studied on factors demonstrating the causal inter-relationships between the EAI adoption factors, actors and factors with the causal relationship among and between  them, research studies on the business perspectives 17, 31 d tech n i cal ca pabilities of E A I i n  integrating IT infrastructure a  conceptual and empirical viewpoint, none of these studies have investigated on prioritising the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases. Thus, the authors propose the following research issue for further investigation  Research Issue 4 - Prioritising EAI Adoption Factors Prioritising the factors based on their importance on the adoption lifecycle phases can influence EAI adoption in LGAs   Figure 1 illustrates the conceptual EAI adoption model in LGAs while RI 1, RI 2, RI 3 and RI  4 representing the Research Issues. This model may assist in improving the level of analysis for EAI adoption and supporting LGAs while adopting EAI     Figure 1: Proposed Conceptual Model for EAI Adoption in LGAs  3. Research Methodology  This paper attempts to investigate on EAI adoption in LGAs. The authors have followed an interpretive, qualitative case study approach to conduct this research. Interpretitivism stance was adopted, as the aim of this paper is to validate the proposed EAI adoption model. An interpretivism stance allows the authors to navigate and better explain this phenomenon. The authors suggest that a qualitative approach is more appropriate as it can be used to: \(a\estigate less acknowledged phenomena like EAI in LGAs, \(b\alidate the conceptual EAI adoption model, \(c\amine the Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  phenomenon in its natural setting, \(d\ide considerable flexibility during interviews and observations and, \(e\rom practice. In the this paper, a single case study was conducted at LGA_A Case studies enable the researchers to investigate a phenomenon in depth, getting close to the phenomenon, providing rich primary data and revealing its deep structure within the organisational context. In doing so, various data collection methods such as interviews, documentation, and observation were used based on a detailed questionnaire Three participants from LGA_A were interviewed using structured \(and semi-structured or unstructured\nterviews. Structured interviews were based on the interview agenda. Semi-structure interviews took place without the use of an interview agenda. Using these interviews the authors attempted to clarify some issues that derived from structured interviews. All the structure or semi-structured interviews took place at interviewees office Unstructured interviews dealt with discussions that the authors had with interviewees but without using a structured or semi-structured interview. The authors had unstructured interviews during lunches, coffee breaks, out of office hours. Using unstructured interviews some important data regarding the case studies were collected. All of the interviews were tape recorded and transcripts prepared after each individual interview. Tape recording supported the authors in collecting accurate data and interpreting them without time pressures.  The bias considered as a danger in using qualitative research approach is overcome by data triangulation. The use of multiple data collection methods makes the triangulation possible, which provides stronger substation of theory th is res earch a b  methodological and, \(c\terdisciplinary triangulation, types of triangulation were used  4. Case Data  To test the aforesaid research issues, a series of case studies were undertaken in the United Kingdom UK\GAs with this section reporting the case of one of them. For confidentiality reasons the authors employ the coded-name as LGA_A to refer to this entity. Structured, semi-structured and unstructured interviews were conducted in LGA_A to investigate EAI adoption. The views from only those stakeholders were deemed that were involved in EAI adoption and evaluation, as it was not possible to interview all the stakeholders. From LGA_A, the stakeholders that were interviewed included: Head of IT \(HIT\enior Development Engineer \(SDE\nd Service Delivery Manager \(SDM  Integration Problems LGA_A is a big borough and has several service areas \(departments Each service area has its own IT infrastructure LGA_A consisted of numerous heterogeneous IS that were based on a diversity of platforms, operating systems, data structures and computer languages These individual applications were not developed in a coordinated way but instead evolved as a result of the latest technological innovation. This led to incompatible systems with integration problems. The need for an integrated and flexible IT infrastructure has been necessitated with the existing infrastructure causing numerous problems. These problems became an obstacle as they prevented it from implementing its business goals Motivations for EAI Adoption LGA_A took the decision to advance in their service delivery by adopting EAI to develop an integrated IT infrastructure. This decision has been widely supported by the UK central government. The analysis of relevant documents related to LGA_A indicate that LGA_A had immense pressure from the central government. This pressure can be signified as external pressure for providing integrated service delivery.  To this end, it appears that the problems with IT infrastructure in LGA_A and the central government influence formed a kind of external and internal pressures. External pressures appear to deal with citizens and other government agencies and councils where internal pressures focus on factors such as managerial and technical issues, with HIT supporting these factors as vital for EAI adoption These finding validate the literature that support the \(a\ infrastructure, \(b\ternal and \(c\ternal pressures as factors that influence the decision making process for EAI adoption [3 G A _ A initiated a plan for developing a pilot project. The motivation was to address the limitations of its existing systems, and to meet the targets set by the central government. The objective of this pilot project was to demonstrate to LGA_A and to other LGAs that investing in a long-term programme of integration between packaged systems and legacy applications is necessary. On this basis the adoption of such integration architecture within LGA_A and other LGAs will deliver measurable business benefit The members involved in this project had their rational motivations behind supporting the decision for EAI adoption. It appears that internal as well as external pressures influence the decision making process for EAI adoption in LGA_A. Another factor that appears to influence the adoption of enterprise application integration is related to the organisational IT capability i.e. IT infrastructure limitations in LGA_A EAI Adoption Process LGA_A was faced with the option of withdrawing their various systems away Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


 and start developing integrated systems again, or finding a method of migrating to a new generation of systems, which would support integration. Due to the rich source of information contained in them and to make development more manageable, the second option was chosen. Hence, in 2004 LGA_A started examining available solutions to meet the challenge for developing a standardised, flexible, integrated and homogeneous IT infrastructure. After reviewing these solutions, LGA_A took the decision to introduce ERP systems to solve their integration problems and provide better services. Also, LGA_A was aiming at integrating its business processes through an ERP solution. However, soon LGA_A realised that ERP systems cannot communicate with other packaged systems and have limitations, as they cannot exchange information with other vendor applications The insufficient nature of their IT infrastructure and the need for integration led LGA_A to revisit their strategies for developing integrated IT infrastructure. Thus, the top management formed an ambitious vision aiming at: \(a\abling integration internally and externally; \(b\ieving effective and efficient joined up government and \(c\abling electronic request and delivery of services. As a result, supporting the decision making process for EAI adoption. LGA_A did not take the decision to fully integrate the borough since such a solution had a high cost. SDE reported that the plan for developing an integrated IT infrastructure on a large scale was considered of high risk as there is no single integration technology or software package that supports the development of an integrated IT infrastructure and there is a lack of knowledge in LGA_A regarding on EAI solutions. This indicates that barriers like the lack of knowledge on EAI and the lack of a single EAI product that solves all integration problems, influenced their decisions As the plans for integrating LGA_A were not completely justified, its top management suggested a pilot to be run and evaluate its outcome. The pilot demonstrates that the integration is technically feasible, can deliver significant benefits to LGA_A and may assist in extracting relevant EAI barriers and risks. Such a decision is supported by the literature  G A _ A  h oped th at t h en central g o v e rnm ent would recognise the success and importance of the project and award it National Project status. As the decision was taken to adopt EAI solution for the pilot project and for other projects in future, the interviewees was asked to comment on whether what factors negatively and positively affected the EAI adoption process. HIT and SDM replied that   most vital negative factor was the silo mentality among our older staff members that resisted to such a change in the department this was also because there were insufficient technical skills and expertise to do integration and our staff lacked understanding of business integration for this reason we had to invest money to train our staff to build integration skills   The HIT also reported on positive factors   despite there were some problems but when systems integrated through EAI, the systems physically got better and everybody saw that the working conditions and our resources are improving i.e. performance as well as the systems improved. As a consequence of doing this the moral of the staff improved and communication and information sharing was enhanced   In the next section, the authors present the testing of research issues and highlighting the empirical results  4.1. Testing Research Issue 1 Factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs  Table 1 provides with the analysis of the factors using Miles and Huberman cale o f le s s  important medium important d most important d where the interviewees did not respond, the researcher uses symbol to illustrate as no response  Table 1: Validating EAI Adoption Factors   EAI Adoption Factors HIT SDE SDM PF Project Champion  Citizen s Satisfaction   Critical Mass  Market Knowledge   TF Evaluation Frameworks  Technological Risks    IT Infrastructure  Personnel IT Knowledge   IT Sophistication  Data Security and Privacy    SF Top Management Support  IT Support  Higher Administrative Authority  FF Return on Investment    Cost  OF Centralisation    Managerial Capability  Barriers    Benefits  Formalisation    Size  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  4.2. Testing Research Issue 2 Adoption Lifecycle Phases  The interviewees were asked to comment and illustrate the importance of the aforesaid adoption lifecycle phases based on the EAI project. Initially all the interviewees agreed that these phases are very important. For example SDE reported that  yes these phases are very important with a perfect breakdown and we faced these phases in EAI project   Whereas, HIT reported that  proposal and adoption decision phases are vital and are the physical aspects whereas motivation and conception are not inevitably physical aspects unless you got a fairly refined strategic approach to what you want to do   SDM stated that before the motivation phase they also faced external driver phase in the project LGA_A was driven by some external influences e.g pressure from central government to improve their service delivery. Due to such influences, LGA_A was motivated to run a pilot project. In addition, the senior development support engineer and the HIT stated that they faced another phase before the proposal phase such as the discussion phase and the research phase respectively. After discussing on these phases with the interviewees, it appears that both have the same underlying meaning i.e  before adoption decision phase we may have research phase by research this we mean that we do some sort of discussions to run a pilot case study and this could be before the proposal phase. The reason to bring this phase before proposal is that if we need resources that actually enable us to do the pilot study, then we might need to take the decision to get the money to do it   After analysing all the interviews, the authors noted that external driver phase can be same as motivation phase. The reason is that an organisation may be motivated to take a step when it is either influenced internally due to some problem or externally through some stakeholders influence Whereas, the discussion or research phase may also be the same as proposal phase. The rationale is that in proposal phase e.g. the departments making decisions to adopt technology need to some sort of research and provide substantiated reasons for approval from the organisation based on the research, besides this the departments need to analyse their requirements and assess their capabilities for acquiring a technology Thus, the interviewees were asked to illustrate the importance of the adoption lifecycle phases. The importance of each phase is presented in Table 2  Table 2: Importance of Adoption Lifecycle Phases  Adoption Lifecycle Phases HIT SDE SDM Motivation  Conception  Proposal    Adoption Decision   4.3. Testing Research Issue 3 Mapping EAI adoption factors on adoption lifecycle phases  Before commencing on the mapping of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases, the interviewees were explained how to perform the mapping Thereafter, the interviewees were asked to map the factors influencing EAI adoption on different phases of the adoption lifecycle. The interviewees went through a rigorous thinking process and mapped the factors \(based on its influence\ each phase of the adoption lifecycle. Table 3 illustrates the results of the mapping of factors for motivation phase only The factors with less \(i.e. one interviewee supporting and other two not\ and no \(i.e. none of the interviewees supporting\ support are discarded. The reason is that these factors had less influence or did not influence on a specific phase. On the other hand factors with full \(i.e. all three interviewees supporting\ and moderate \(i.e. two interviewees supporting and third not supporting\ support are utilised for further empirical research  Table 3: Summarising the Factors with Full or Moderate Support on the Motivation Phase  Motivation Phase  Factors HIT SDE SDM PF Project Champion    Citizen s Satisfaction    Critical Mass    TF IT Sophistication    Data Security and Privacy    SP Top Management Support    Higher Administrative Authority    FF Return on Investment    OF Benefits    Size    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


 4.4. Testing Research Issue 4 Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  Table 1 validates the factors using Miles and Huberman w h erea s, T a ble 3 illustrates th e  mapping of factors on the motivation phase of the adoption lifecycle. However, these tables do not illustrate the important of each factor on the adoption lifecycle phases. This section introduces AHP technique to prioritise the importance of factor influencing EAI adoption. Table 4 illustrates the global weights-based prioritisation of factors for example on only motivation phase \(due to the constraints on length of the paper, the authors did not include the prioritisation results of other three adoption lifecycle phases\ These weights are obtained by using the Expert Choice \(EC\ software and the conclusions drawn from them are the final results of the analysis of collective judgements provided by the panel of interviewees selected for LGA_A. The results presented in these tables do not mean that any factor is unimportant. It merely exhibits interviewees perceptions on the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases  Table 4: Prioritising the Importance of Factors on the Motivation Phase  Prioritising Factors on the Motivation Phase Factor Categories Factors Prioritisation Result TF IT Sophistication 1\ 0.5963 SF Top Management Support 1\ 0.5963 PF Project Champion 2\ 0.5146 OF Benefits 3\ 0.4583 PF Citizen s Satisfaction 4\ 0.3568 OF Size 5\ 0.2083 PF Critical Mass 6\ 0.1293 TF Data Security and Privacy 7\ 0.0704 SF Higher Administrative Authority 7\ 0.0704 FF Return on Investment 8\ 0.0000  5. Discussions and Revision of the Model  According to the empirical findings, only two factors were not validated i.e. formalisation and evaluation framework. The reasons are: \(a\GA_A did not follow any formal procedure to assess EAI technological solution and \(b\ no evaluation framework was used to assess EAI technological solution but relied on the software vendor. Other factors have either directly or indirectly influenced the decision making process for EAI technological solution adoption. On the other hand, six new factors were identified such as \(a data consistence and project delivery timescale as internal pressure factors b stakeholder s pressure and competition as external pressure factors, \(c stakeholder s support as a support factors, and \(d central government grants  as a financial factor. Four new adoption lifecycle phases were also identified from the empirical findings from LGA_A: [\(a external driver and/or \(b driving force c discussion and/or \(d research phase  tern al driv e r or d r iv ing  f o rce ph a s e are prior to the motivation phase, discussion and or research phases are prior to the proposal phase whereas, adoption decision phase was also reported with a different term i.e investment phase. The findings illustrate that the role of factors, adoption lifecycle phases, mapping of factors and prioritising the importance EAI adoption factors on the adoption lifecycle phases had high importance during EAI adoption process in LGA_A Thus, the authors propose that while exploring EAI adoption in LGAs a\actors, \(b\ lifecycle phases, \(c\mapping of factors and \(d\oritising the importance of factors on the adoption lifecycle phases provides a deeper understanding of interrelationships within LGAs. In doing so, the revised proposed EAI adoption model may: \(a\ercome IT infrastructure limitations within LGAs, \(b\mprove the level of analysis and \(c\upport LGAs when adopting EAI  6. Conclusions  LGAs are complex organisations and are managed by the consent and rules set by the central government. They are influenced by other government authorities and ministries, and their IS adoption involve distributed decision-making based on a division of control and powers [17, 39   Conversely, private organisations have direct and undivided power over decisions and flexible management style with inter-departmental teams working in central coordination T h is  distinction illustrates that LGAs have a bureaucratic nature and are committed to outdated cultural values Such characteristics emphasize risk aversion and insist that structures enhance control rather than connected thinking with silos in LGAs, let alone between them reov er, each L G A dis p la y s  differences in the way: \(a\eir business processes are implemented to provide citizen services, and \(b makes its decisions that differs a lot from other private organisations h es e th eoris e d conceptions distinguish LGAs from other sectors EAI represents an attractive proposition to LGAs, since EAI offers the opportunity to leverage the systems into a seamless chain of processes and present a unified view of their information [12, 28  When such leveraging and presentation occurs, LGAs Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  may capitalise on their opportunities offered by LGA initiatives \(e.g. e-Government\se then they may efficiently interact with their citizens and other stakeholders on a consistent basis w e v e r EAI is an emerging area within LGAs, thus, there remains an absence of theoretical models, which means there is still a case for the identification of factors that affect the decision making process for EAI adoption and identification of adoption lifecycle phases, with the development of empirically validated underpinnings argued, justified and presented in this paper. The authors sought to address the established voids by proposing a novel conceptual model for EAI adoption in LGAs. The model takes into consideration the parame ters that were identified in the normative literature as influencing factors and adoption lifecycle phases. The proposed conceptual model is novel as it includes: \(a\e model consists of a set of factors influencing EAI adoption in LGA_A and incorporates factors identified separately in previous studies. These factors are used for the developing an EAI adoption model in LGAs, \(b\e model incorporates adoption lifecycle phases Empirical findings illustrate that LGA_A passed through these phases while adopting EAI, \(c\e model assimilates the mapping of factors influencing EAI adoption in LGA_A on the adoption lifecycle phases, and \(d\e model incorporates the prioritisation \(importance\ EAI adoption factors in LGA_A on the adoption lifecycle phases The model can be used as a tool for decisionmaking to support LGAs and allow decision makers and researchers to understand and analyse EAI adoption. The concepts of the proposed model can be used for the adoption of inter-organisational IS since such systems should focus on integrated technologies and infrastructures. An interpretive, qualitative case study approach was selected to conduct this research It is not the intention of this paper to offer prescriptive guidelines to EAI adoption but rather describe case study perspectives that allow other researchers to relate their experiences to those reported. Hence, offering a broader understanding of the phenomenon of EAI adoption in LGAs Therefore, the lessons learnt are a result of the description provided and do not seek to be prescriptive. These lessons are summarised below Lesson 1 The practical implications of the mapping of factors on adoption lifecycle phases are  this process can support in better understanding the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs. This is vital as it can also support the managements  decision-making process while introducing EAI Lesson 2 Prioritising the importance of EAI adoption factors on adoption lifecycle phases can further enhance the decision making process in LGAs. During the mapping of factors, the importance of factors was not recognised Prioritising the factors can assist LGA officials in realising and understanding the factors influencing EAI adoption in LGAs Lesson 3 Findings on the mapping of factors and prioritising the importance of factors on adoption lifecycle phases reflect that each interviewee from LGA_A has relatively different conception while mapping the factors and prioritising the importance of factors on adoption lifecycle phases. This may also illustrate that within different LGAs interviewees understanding, knowledge and ability to comprehend the importance of factors may differ Lesson 4 Findings related to the mapping of factors and prioritising the importance of factors cannot be generalised as they may also differ from one LGA to the other Hitherto, the authors highlighted the individual elements of the contributions and research novelty presented in this paper. However, at the wider context this research aimed to enhance the technical decision making process while adopting EAI technologies in LGAs. This was achieved by proposing and validating a novel model \(Figure 1 for EAI adoption in the practical arena \(LGA_A The key beneficiaries are the decision makers and practitioners within LGAs, and researchers within the academic community. All of these benefit from the research in this paper as a guideline to analyse and understand EAI adoption in LGAs. In doing so this research work significantly contributes to the body of knowledge and practice in the areas of EAI and the local government domain by providing sufficient support to the decision makers in speeding up the EAI adoption process in LGAs   7. References  1 A b ie H Foy n B., Bing J  Blobe l, B  P h a r ow P    Delgado, J., Karnouskos, S., Pitkanen, O. and Tzovaras, D The Need for a Digital Rights Management Framework for the Next Generation of E-Government Services  Electronic Government An International Journal 2004 1\(1\, pp. 8-28 2 Beck er, S. N. and W h i s l e r, T  L   The innovative organisation: a selective view of current theory and research  The Journal of Business 1967, 40\(4\, pp. 462469 3 Ch en H Adopting Emerging Integration Technologies in Organisations PhD Thesis, Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, London, UK 2005 4 D a v e nport T  H   Putting the Enterprise into the Enterprise Systems  Harvard Business Review 1998, pp 121-131 5 Eis e n ha rdt K  M  Building Theories from Case Study Research  Academy of Management Review 1989, 14\(4 pp. 532-550 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 6 Elm a g a r m i d, A  K  a nd   Mc Iv e r W  J  J r  The Ongoing March towards Digital Government  Computer  2001, 34\(2\, pp. 32-38 7 Fra m ba c h R. T  a nd Sc hille w a e r t, N Organisational innovation adoption: a multi-level framework of determinants and opportunities for future research  Journal of Business Research 2002, 55\(2\ pp. 163-76 8 G a lliv a n M. J Organisational adoption and assimilation of complex technological innovations development and application of a new framework  The DATABASE for Advances in Information Systems 2001 32\(3\, pp. 51-85 9 G a m p e r J  a nd A u g s te n, N   The Role of Web Services in Digital Government  2 nd International Conference on EGovernment Prague, Czech Republic, 2003, pp. 161-166 1 Heeks R  Reinventing Government in the Information Age Routledge, London, 1999 11 H u a n g  S  M   C h a n g  I C   L i  S  H  a n d L i n  M  T   Assessing risk in ERP projects: identify and prioritise the factors  Industrial Management and Data Systems 2004 104\(8\ pp. 681-688 1 Jan ssen  M  an d Cressw ell, A   An Enterprise Application Integration Methodology for E-Government  Journal of Enterprise Information Management 2005 18\(5\, pp. 531-547 13 Ka m a l, M. M., T h e m i s toc l e ous, M. a nd El lim a n T   Mapping Factors Influencing EAI Adoption in the Local Government Authorities on Different Phases of the Adoption Lifecycle  European and Mediterranean Conference on Information Systems Dubai, UAE, 2008 14 Ka m a l, M. M. a nd T h e m istoc l e ous M Investigating EAI Adoption in LGAs: A Case Study Based Analysis  13 th Americas Conference on Information Systems  Keystone, Colorado, 2007, pp. 1-13 15 K a m a l, M. M IT Innovation Adoption in the Government Sector: Identifying the Critical Success Factors  Journal of Enterprise Information Management  2006, 19\(2\, pp. 192-222 16 K h oum ba ti, K   Evaluating the Adoption of Enterprise Application Integration in Healthcare Organisations PhD Thesis, Department of Information Systems and Computing, Brunel University, London, UK, 2005 1 La m   W  Barriers to E-Government Integration  Journal of Enterprise Information Management 2005 18\(5\, pp. 511-530 18 L a m  P  K  a n d C h i n  K  S   Identifying and prioritising critical success fact ors for conflict management in collaborative new product development Industrial Marketing Management, 2005, 34, pp. 761-772 1 L ee J W   an d Ki m  S  H   Using analytic network process and goal programming for interdependent IS project selection  Computers & Operations Research  2000, 27, pp. 367-382 20 L i nthic u m  D   Enterprise Application Integration  Massachusetts, USA, Addison-Wesley, 2000 21 L ong o, J  R   The ABCs of Enterprise  EAI Journal  2001, pp. 56-58 2 M a nt zan a V  G   Investigating the Adoption of Enterprise Application Integration in Healthcare Organisations Using an Actor-Oriented Approach PhD Thesis, DISC, Brunel University, London, UK, 2006 23 Mc Iv or, R Mc H u g h M a nd Ca dde n  C Internet Technologies Supporting Transparency in the Public Sector  The International Journal of Public Sector Management 2002, 15\(3\. 170-187 24  Mile s  M. a nd H ube rm an, A   Qualitative Data Analysis: An Expanded Sourcebook   Sage, Newbury Park California, 1994 2  P a u l J-H H  C h an   P  Y K an d S h en g O R L   Investigation of factors affecting healthcare organization s adoption of telemedicine technology  33 rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on  Systems Sciences 2000, pp. 110 26  Pus c hm a nn, T  a nd A lt, R Enterprise Application Integration The Case of the Robert Bosch Group  34 th  Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences  Maui, 2001, pp. 1-10 2 R o ger s  E  M  19 95   Diffusion of Innovations 4 th ed The Free Press, New York, NY 2 R u h W   M a gi n n i s, F  a n d B r o w n  W  Enterpriser Application Integration New York, USA, Wiley John Wiley & Sons Inc, 2001 29  Saaty  T  L   The Analytic Hierarchy Process Planning, Priority Setting: Resource Allocation McGrawHill, New York, 1980 30  Sa lm e r on, J  L  a nd H e r r e r o, I An AHP-based methodology to rank critical success factors of executive information systems  Computer Standards & Interfaces  2005, 28, pp. 1-12 31 T h e m is toc l e ous M. a n d Ira ni, Z Towards a Methodology for the Development of Integrated IT Infrastructures In Sprague, R. J. \(Eds 39 th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Los Alamitos, California, [CD Proceedin 20 06   p p  4 7   3 T h em i s t o cl eo u s  M   Justifying the decisions for EAI implementations: A validated proposition of influential factors  Journal of Enterprise Information Management  2004, 17\(2\, pp. 85-104 33 T h e m is toc l e ous M., Ira ni Z  a nd K u lj is J   Extending the Information System Lifecycle through Enterprise Application Integration: A Case Study Experience  37 th  Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Big Island, Hawaii, 2004, pp. 1-8 3 T h em i s t o cl eo u s  M   Iran i  Z   O Keefe, R. M. and Paul, R ERP Problems and Application Integration Issues: An Empirical Survey  34 th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Maui, Hawaii, 2001 3 V i n o s ki  S   Where is middleware  IEEE Internet Computing 2002, 6\(2\ 83-5 36 W a l s h  P   Improving Government s Response to Local Communities is Place Management an Answer  Australian Journal of Public Administration 2001, 60\(2 pp. 3-12 37 W a rd, M  A  a nd Mi tc he ll S A comparison of the strategic priorities of public and private sector information resource management executives  Government Information Quarterly 2004, 21\(2\ 284-304 3 W i mm er M  A   A European perspective towards online one-stop government: the E-Gov project  Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 2002 1\(1\, pp. 92-103 39 W o rra ll, L   Justifying investment in GIS: a local government perspective  International Journal of Geographical Information Science 1994, 8\(6\. 545565  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


