The Interpretive Flexibility of an E-government Project: From an ActorNetwork Theory Perspective   Wenbo Chen Management School Fudan University chenwenbo@fudan.edu.cn Cheng Zhang Management School Fudan University zhangche@fudan.edu.cn Yingqin Zheng Department of Management, London School of Economics y.zheng2@lse.ac.uk Lili Cui School of Information Engineering, Shanghai University of Finance Economics cuilili@fudan.edu.cn 
  Abstract  This paper draws upon concepts from the actornetwork theory \(ANT\ interpret the sequence of events that lead to the interpretive flexibility of information systems implementation in a municipal administration in Shanghai, China. Through our intensive examination of the process of development and implementation of th e e-government project, we find that interpretive flexibility of the information system is highly determi ned by the heterogeneous interests inscribed in the technology. We propose that the heterogeneous interests reach a settlement through a phased translation process. By investigating the translation of the actor-network, the paper demonstrates the process by which the interpretive 
flexibility of the IT project comes into being. While great amount of studies on interpretive flexibility are focusing on mental sides of human agents, the research sheds lights on uncovering the interpretive flexibility from inscribed interests perspective   1. Introduction  According to the World Bank, e-government refers to the use of information and communication technologies \(ICT\acilitate or transform government performance, e.g. better delivery of government services to citizens, improved interactions with business and industry, citizen empowerment 
through access to information, or more efficient government management. E-government projects take a variety of forms under different circumstances. Due to discrepancies in conditions of national information infrastructure, network economy, and socio-cultural conditions, developing countries tend to adopt different e-government strategies from developed countries [1   E-government projects in China generally aim to deliver government services to citizens, strengthen linkage between the government and the industry and citizens, and to improve the transparency and 
efficiency of government administration by networking government departments [2  Chi na  st a r t e d e government activities in the early 1990s, when it was required that all government offices should set up websites to provide information to citizens. In 1993 three Golden projects were launched as pilot egovernment projects: the Golden Bridge transportation\ project, the Golden Card \(banking project and the Golden Custom project. These were followed by more than a dozen other Golden projects 
which aim to construct and integrate a nation-wide e-government infrastructure in China [3   However, e-government projects still face tremendous challenges.  In 2003, United Nations pointed out in its e-government report that the egovernment project failure rate is very high, at round 60-80 T h e g r eates t ch a lleng e probably  lies  w i t h  the transition from government to e-government Similarly, in China, it is unclear whether the egovernment initiatives really achieve their goals. So far, most studies on e-government in China focus on government websites [3, 5   T h i s p a p e r pr e s e n t s a  
case of municipal e-government project in China which drifted from a cross-departmental integrated system that aims to promote transparency and accountability to an isolated departmental system to improve operational efficiency. Yet, this project was viewed as a success The process of drifting reflects the interpretive flexibility of the information system We argue that such interpretive flexibility is a result of the creation and transformation of an actor-network in which different interests of different stakeholders are 
inscribed and translated The interpretive flexibility of information technologies, referring to the capacity of a specific technology \(or other knowledge system\ to sustain the divergent interpretations of multiple groups 7, p  a s been  w i del y  inves tig a t ed in i n f o r m atio n systems research [8w e v e r, to ou r k n o w l ed g e   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


no research has investigated the determinants of the degree of the flexibility in the information technology design and implementation. We have no knowledge on how flexible can an information technology be. This paper draws upon concepts from actor-network theory to investigate the process of how flexibility comes into being in an e-government project The paper is organized as follows. First, we present the conceptual framework; actor-network theory and the concept of interpretive flexibility are discussed in this section. Next, we present the case background and describe the research method, with detail on the data collection. In the penultimate section of the paper, we make an intensive analysis and discussion on the case from the actor-network theory. Finally, we draw conclusions on the theoretical and practical implications of our paper  2. Conceptual Framework  2.1 Actor-Network Theory  Rooted in studying relations between society and science, actor-network theory \(ANT\eloped into a approach to analyze situations in which social and technical factors are blended into complex settings [11  poin t of A N T is  n o t to a priori s e parate  complex socio-technical situation into its social and its technical components, rather analyze the interplay between both with ANT concepts. Actually, ANT makes no difference between human and non-human entities. All the entities are generalized symmetry In addition, ANT assumes that every actor needs an alliance of other actors to reach its goals. These alliances can comprise of very heterogeneous actors and interests. Understanding the dynamics of such actor-networks is the focus of ANT Key concepts in ANT are act-network, translation and inscription. ANT recognizes that establishing and changing a social order relies on a tight interplay between social and technical factors. Human and nonhumans are allied as actor networks. Further, ANT assumes that \(a section of\ society is inhabited by actors pursuing interests. An actor s interests can be translated into technical or social arrangements, for instance an information systems or organizational routines. There are four stages in the translation process: problematization, interessement, enrollment and mobilization prob le m a tizat ion  t h e i n itiator  seeks to become indispensable to other actor in a specific setting by define the nature and the problems of the latter and then suggesting that these would be resolved if the actors participate the project In  interessement, by convincing other actors that the project is aligned with their own interests, the initiator seeks to lock the other actors into the roles that had been proposed for them. In enrollment, the actor seeks to define and interrelate the various roles it had allocated to others. The last moment is mobilization which includes the initiators use of a set of strategies to ensure the alliance act according to the agreement and not betray. The end result of the translation is the stability after reaching a certain degree of alignment of interests [11 A n in scrip tio n is th e res u lt o f t h e  translation of one s interest into material artifacts or routines [11, p.143  A c to rs in scrib e th eir in terest s in to  technical artifacts in ways that defines the role and use of these artifacts  ANT can serve as a useful theoretical lens for understanding sociopolitical phenomena such as information technology design and implementation Specially, we believe that ANT can provide added explanatory power in three primary ways. First, ANT does not a priori exclude non-human actors from the analysis, thereby allowing for a more explicit examination of the information technologies in a sociotechnical process. Second, ANT does not a priori distinguish between individuals and organizations  This allows the research to focus on the connections between different actors and provides a hybrid view on the technology implementation [15h i r d, A N T  assumes that society is inhabited by actors pursuing interests.  Interests can be translated into technical or social arrangement, for instance an information systems or organizational routines. The interests inscribed in the information technologies provide us with insights about the complex social-technical events during the implementation  2.2. Interpretive flexibility of information technology  Interpretive flexibility has been the focus of discussions on the relationships between human technology and organization. Initial researches were focused around Giddens structuration theory [18  while more recently actor-network theory a s  attracted increasing attention From structuration theory, the social constructionists argue that a given technology has interpretive flexibility h ich allo w s  f o r dif f e rent  interpretations of its functional and social-cultural properties. Technology is hence socially constructed such that perceptions of its properties are largely determined by the interpretive frameworks and negotiations of relevant social groups Stabilization  of the flexibility occurs when different social groups arrive at a similar interpretation of a technology The agency relates exclusively to human actors  Technical artifacts, their enduring materiality Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


notwithstanding, are simply allocative resources are flexible only when the involved agencies interpret them in different ways Taking generalized symmetry as one of its principles, ANT [14 e s n o diff eren ce s bet w ee n human and non-human actors. According to ANT interpretive flexibility is the ability of a technical artifact to represent different things to different actors  22, p en n e w tec h n o log i es are de v e loped an d  implemented, their inherent interpretive flexibility  will allow various stakeholders to associate different meanings to the artifac Ov er a period of ti m e as  stakeholders identify problems with the new artifact modifications are introduced and meanings get embedded into the design and implementation of the artifact, until all problems have been resolved, and state of closure is reached [21, p W h ere th ere are significant differences of interpretation between the stakeholders, Bijker u gg ests t h at a s t ate of closure will only be reached in the following two ways embedding the meaning of the most dominant group of stakeholders; enrolling stakeholders to compromise or consensus position, or proceeding with more than one design The closure results from the stabilization of an artifact. Stability is continually negotiated as a social process of aligning heterogeneous interests via inscription and translation T h eref ore, w i t h in a  relevant social group, opinion is mobilized by various means and successful networks of aligned interests are created by enrolling a sufficient body of allie From the ANT perspective, we can state that interpretive flexibility is amenable to social shaping through the alignment of heterogeneous interests into one coherent network 9  3. Case Introduction and Research Methodology   The case we report here concerns the design and implementation of an e-government system in Shanghai municipal real estate administration. The project, named FDMIS started in June 2003. The project team includes over ten related department, a consultant agency and the municipal government. The core team members are Department X, which is in charge of the municipal computerization, Agency I, a prior affiliation of Department X, Department F, the department which is mainly in charge of the real estate transactions. At the beginning, Agency I makes a quick win by successful implementation of a land transaction subsystem in December 2003. However, the crossdepartmental operations are not covered in this subsystem. Inspired by the quick win and oral approval by the vice mayor, Agency I intended to extend the FDMIS to cover all the lifecycle information and processes about the real estate. Twelve subsystems were included in its formal plan. But Department F insisted that the FDMIS should focus on its internal operations. The long lasting \(from 2004 to 2006 stalemate was ended with Agency I s compromise. In the end, the FDMIS were developed and implemented as an internal operation supporting systems in department F, with almost the same budget planned at the initial stage. A schematic of various events and phases of the case is shown in figure 1  Figure 1 Key events and phases  The research was conducted as an interpretive case study [25 ou r f i eld w ork on e o f o u r res earch er s was involved researcher and the other three were outside researchers 27  T h o ugh i n vo l v e d  t h e  involved researcher only acted as a recorder in the meetings and has not been taken as being aligned with any groups within the project. This guaranteed the neutral position of the researchers Data resources were collected in the following two ways. First, our main sources were the 48 formal meeting minutes, 5 audio records of meetings and 8 versions of the internal project report \(all formal versions\hese resources covered all the formal meetings and important formal documents during the design and implementation of FDMIS. Audio records were transcribed. In addition, relevant documents Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


pertaining to FDMIS were also collected from related departments and agency. Second, other resources include the in-depth, open ended interview. Interviews were conducted over three years between June 2003 and October 2006 with officers who were involved in FDMIS, as well as consultants from the consulting agency. The interviewed officers in FDMIS came from different layers and departments, ranging from the Mayor to the frontline officers and representing a diversity of organizational divisions in FDMIS. Totally 21 interviews have been conducted. All interviews were recorded and transcribed. Interview length varied but a typical interview lasted from one to two hours An interpretive approach [25 w a s e m plo y ed i n  analyzing the qualitative data. In the data collection phase, no explicit theories have been employed by the authors. During the intensive discussion about the materials we collected, all the authors found there was a perfect match between the materials and the ANT We employed coding to make data-theory links Paradigms and concepts from ANT were utilized to identify and develop concepts, themes and issues in our analysis  4. Evidence and analysis  This section describes how FDMIS was developed and implemented, carrying different interests and taking different shapes at different stages. We adopt and extend Callon s [12 stag e s o f tran slatio n to  present the initiation and transformation of the actornetwork created around FDMIS. These stages are problematization, interessement, enrollment mobilization, and stabilization our extension  4.1. Problematization  From the 2000s, the real estate market in Shanghai has developed in a startling rapidity, the prices of real estate have nearly doubled between 2000 and 2004  d still in rock et f r o m  th en o n T o m o n i tor th e  real estate transactions efficiently, the municipal government has been enforced in the nation s 1998 amendment to the land management law which stipulates that all leasing of state lands to commercial developers has to pass through the hands of the municipalities. However, transaction information is highly fragmented, and large quantities of transaction information have not fulfilled the requirement on efficiency management on the real estate market Shanghai municipal governance is made up of 3 layers of administration vertically. In the municipal layer. There are more than fifty commissions, offices and bureaus, each in charge of some areas of municipal administrations. The real estate administration, which is mainly the responsibilities of Department F, has relations to almost half of other commissions, offices and bureaus. No department has all the information about the land With the booming of the housing market, the Shanghai municipal government believed that there was an urgent need to adopt information technologies to increase administrative efficiency and transparency and to fend against low efficiency administration in real estate transactions Concerning the turbulence on the development of the real estate market and the fragmented information the Mayor made a speech on the real estate administration in 2003 in which he mentioned that the information technology is a potential tool to make the administration more transparent and accountable. The Mayor said Concerning the misconducts uncovered in Shanghai real estate market, we need to investigate the requirements of a comprehensive land administration information system. The aim [of this information system is to gather a nd ma nage the w h ole lifecycle information about each land. Completely reveal land resource information in the city to the public and help municipal decision making Municipal leaders should know the trade, construction and profits of each land exactly. In addition, the information should open to the citizens to avoid the misconducts in this area  Referred in M-030709  Agency I, a prior affiliation of Department X was commissioned to develop and implement an FDMIS to fulfill the administration requirement advocated by the municipal government. As soon as Agency I was commissioned, a systematic survey and research on the real estate market was started. The initial plan of FDMIS was completed based on Agency I s research in July 2003. The stated goals fully satisfied the Mayor s request to completely reveal land resource information in the city to the public and help municipal decision making The new system would be a crossdepartmental transaction system with process reengineering to manage the life cycle of land resources among various bureaus efficiently. The Mayor therefore, approved the plan  4.2. Interessement   Information systems are inscribed with heterogeneous interests and each of these interests can be thought to be a delegate that speaks on their behalf The enrolment of other actors in networks surrounding the technology requires that these actors adopt attitudes and actions congruent with those of the interests Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


inscribed in the technology. Heterogeneous interests inscribed in the FDMIS \(Figure 2  Figure 2 Interests inscribed in FDMIS  First, the FDMIS reflects the municipal government s expectation on transparency, macrocontrol and misconducts prevention in the municipal real estate administration. In the macro-level information systems always inscribe such macroconcerns as democracy, transparency, accountability  In th e in it iation of  F D MIS, th e Ma y o r said  The aim [of this information system is to g a t h e r and manage the whole lifecycle information about each land. Municipal leaders should know the transaction construction and profits of each land exactly. In addition, the information should open to the citizens to avoid misconducts in this area. \(Referred in M-030709  Second, the FDMIS presents potential for crossdepartmental integration of process and information The potentials of information technologies enabled business transformation has been investigated in the business fiel f o rm a t ion techn o log i e s can be viewed as an enabler for the integrations of processes and information. In the public field, stage models 32 h a v e in d i cated p r o cess an d in f o r m atio n in te g r atio n  will be achieved with the development of egovernment. The information technologies inscribe the abilities for the cross-departmental integration of process and information. In our field data mutual connection and communications between municipal departments has been mentioned quite often. In fact it s the focal point of the state s strategic e-government plan in the 11th five-year strategic plan on egovernment. Though currently the information and process about the land and house administration are highly fragmented and authorities distributed in almost half of the municipal departments. The intention to manage the information and processes integratively has been mentioned throughout the project. For example after an initial research on the land and house management, the director of Agency I said We should develop a system to operate the information and processes on the whole lifecycle of land and provide one-stop service in related functions and information services. \(M-030709 Third, the FDMIS inscribes the potential to improve the internal department operations. Internal efficiency improvement has been the direct intention of the e-government implementation in departments. It offers departments abilities to gather, share, store, and organize large volumes of data and information on a real-time basis. Departments can save money through more efficient tasks and less paperwork that becomes available through internal application of information technologies. Further more, departments can gain constant improvement in efficiency by institutionalize more tasks with information technologies with the infusion of information technologies. In addition, the legitimacy concern of operations in public sectors drives the departments to include more internal activities in the coverage of information technologies Fourth, participations in FDMIS can be a symbol of respect to the municipal government. Though have no substantial relations to the FDMIS, some department showed their enthusiasms verbally in the meetings when their superior, that is the municipal government asked them to participate. They took the participation as a symbol of respect to their superior. In this way FDMIS inscribes the functions to show respect or obey the orders of the supervisor Finally, the implementation of the FDMIS will bring economic benefit to Agency I. Agency I actively advocated the FDMIS for it deemed it as a chance to gain economic benefit from the governmental budget In addition, successful development of the software and the implementation will bring long term benefit to Agency I for the software could be sold to other municipal governments. In one of the internal meetings the director of Agency I said A specialized operation and maintenance organization would be established when FDMIS was completed. Simultaneously, we could develop a software product based on the system model. By promoting this product in the Chinese market, we could cover the prior investment and put forward the next round of development. We will push out the update with the development of information technologies and make it an industry in China. \(M030728, M-030731, M-040203  Till now, the story reveals a number of levels of interests within which the actors operate: the social level where, for instance, the society seeks to a transparent regulation environment, the organizational  Transparency, Accountability Cross-departmental Integration of Processes and Information Efficiency o f  Internal Operation Show Respect to Superior Economic Benefit from the implementation Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


level where, for example, there is a critical need for better coordination and control mechanism through inter-unit information processing and integrating, still yet the individual level where, for instance, the department head of F seeks to draw upon the interest of the Mayor to lend authority to his approach of enhancing department organic structure through improving intra-unit information processing capability while other department heads seek to present their symbol of respond to the Mayor Heterogeneity of interests is an interesting concept involving the social, organizational and individual level. Here we have demonstrated how the heterogeneity of interests has been inscribed and interplayed as the source of technology flexibility However, at whatever level interest in influenced researchers need to be able to understand the process that governs it. This leads to a further interesting question: how could the interpretive technology flexibility come into being through the project implementation   4.3. Enrollment - project initiation \(June 2003August 2003  After the initial plan, Agency I began to seek budget from the municipal government. During this period, the Agency found that only a government department principal could gain government financial support, according to the regulations related to egovernment projects. In other words, Agency I was not qualified to be the principal of FDMIS. However compared to governmental departments, Agency I was more technologically competent to implement the system. If it could not supervise the project, Mayor H s stated goals of this FDMIS project might not be fulfilled In this situation, Agency I has to enroll other departments to achieve its goals. Agent I decided to abandon its initial position to be the sole principal of the project and to become a co-principal of Department F, which is responsible for the municipal land resource management. However, the level of Agency I is lower than Department F because Agency I is under the supervision of Department X, which charges all civil affairs of computerization in Shanghai, and Department X is at the same administrative level as Department F. Given the Chinese bureaucracy s implicit rules on authority relationship, Agency I could not negotiate with F and other same-level bureaus directly. Department X had to be enrolled in the network as a communication channel between Agency I and Department F and other bureaus whose interests would be affected by the new IT. After successfully getting X s support, a complicated team satisfying requirements from both Departments and the project needs was formed. Agency I and Department F formed a team responsible for implementation actions. In addition to members from both groups, Municipal government included the Mayor H, one Vice Mayor and a Vice Secretary as corresponding leaders, and Department X as a communication channel between Agency I and other related bureaus Due to the heterogeneity of the inscribed interests the different actors, which are municipal government Agency I, Department X, F, Other related Departments and one nonhuman actor, FDMIS formulate a stable alliance. The artifact of FDMIS has not been clearly defined and each actor has its own interpretation of FDMIS  4.4. Mobilization - phase I \(August 2003January 2004  After a careful review and discuss on the initial plan suggested by Agency I, Department F argued that the system should support its internal transactions first to avoid potential conflicts with other bureaus Department F also hoped that the system could focus on improving its information technology capability and internal transaction informatization, believing that the project implementation might be continued only if both sides reached consensus on the project s objectives In order to keep the alliance, Agency I did not raise its concern directly, although the system objectives suggested by Department F was far different from what was initially planned. However, Agency I still expected developing a system more than only support the internal functions of Department F With the help of Department X over the following weeks, Department F and Agency I had several meetings and reached an agreement on developing a system that could quickly fulfill the Mayor s requirements and help Department F to significantly improve its administrative efficiency From August 2003 on, kick off team was organized by Department F, X and Agency I. Since Agency I had rich experiences in IT projects, and the technical leader on the team was a well respected professional who was also a member of the Chinese national informatization advisor committee, the project made substantial progress rapidly. After a one-month field study to analyze the requirements, the team came out with a new project plan. The project would expect to develop 12 subsystems with a central data resource management platform and database, with a 13 million USD budget. Responding to the Mayor s specific requirements for the system \(i.e. strengthening the land market supervision and make the land ownership transfer more transparent\e team decided to develop Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


a land ownership transaction system that can enable optimized transaction process across various bureaus This was also a full transaction system which could function to accomplish Department F s major missions Since the technology, including the database system and developing techniques, had been proven feasible the challenges were expected to be process reengineering exercises and project management issues In October 2003, Department F became the project principal while Agency I became the co-principal and implementation service vendor. Department F commissioned Agency I to implement all related tasks Moreover, in order to avoid any underlying conflicts of interest among related bureaus in future project implementation, a joint meeting with participants from related departmental directors was established. Aligned the formal contract provisions, Agency I and Department F established a routine project team with people from different parties and sub-organizations The two organizations had a relatively sound cooperative relationship in implementing Phase 1 of the project After a more detailed field research, the project team found the land ownership transaction of several departments needed to be reengineered. The team realized that it was difficult to coordinate those departments in such a short period because any transaction process change in other departments required complicated negotiations and administrative procedures. Therefore, the project team decided to concentrate only on the reengineering work and information flow inside Department F. In this way, the team can confine the influence scope and avoid disturbing the regular administrative system. As a result, the original commitment transferred into building an internal transaction system with process reengineering in this period. Through the processes of prototype developing, modifying, formal developing trying, training, testing, and promoting in the project the first subsystem was implemented from November to December of 2003 and went live formally in January 2004. The Mayor was satisfied with the achievements and authorized a Deputy Vice Mayor to supervise the project in the future By implementation of the subsystem of FDMIS interests of the actors are symbolically or partially fulfilled. To say the fulfillment is symbolic is on condition that the technology-in-practice is decoupled from but in the name of to enhance the transparency accountability, macro-control and corruption prevention In the preface of the formal plan on the subsystem, the prior referred words are in bold to emphasize the fulfillment of this interest in the subsystems. Though the subsystem is not the ultimate system, it s enough for the involved departments Especially to Department F and other related Department, all they needed is a sign of showing respects to their superior. To Department F, the efficiency of internal operation is only a byproduct The enacted FDMIS in this stage is a Land Transaction subsystem which excludes the cross-departmental processes The network is enhanced in this stage by successfully implementation of the subsystem Although the cooperation between Agency I and F in Phase 1 of the project was quite sound, most difficulties on cross-departmental process reengineering occurred in Phase 2  4.5. Stabilization - phase II \(January 2004-June 2008  After the go-live of land transaction subsystem Phase II of the project was on schedule. The potential objectives incongruence between I and F soon arose To maximize the benefits within the team s boundary based on the given budget, F insisted implementing internal transaction support systems to cover all its internal functions first Given the favorable achievements from Phase I Agency I planned to extend the project to reach its original objective. However, to keep the enrolment of Department F, Agency I expressed this opinion indirectly in coordinating meetings with Department F but emphasized in the internal meeting that when communicate with Department F, it was essential to convince F that the whole plan will still cover all the functions of F.  The director of Agency I said The first is c o mmu n i ca tio n with Dep a r tmen t F  The admitted system by Department F has conflicts with our objectives, so it s important to communicate with Department F. In the communication, our emphasis is to convince F that our two systems have covered all the core internal functions of F  M040101 But F is not so easy to be convinced. From January to March 2004, Agency I helped several periphery departments simplify and re-design processes in real estate transaction administration. During this period disagreement of implementation targets between Agency I and Department F still existed. For example F was more concerned with work practices such as data structures and historical data collections, while Agency I emphasized the reengineering of the real estate management process and system design from a crosssector perspective The first joint meeting among all related bureaus was held in April 2004. Just a few months earlier, in August 2003, the central government issued the Administrative Permission Law of the People s Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


Republic of China which requires local governments to make land management more efficient, fair, and transparent. At the meeting, the authorized Deputy vice Mayor approved Agency I s approach and acknowledged the project s progress. He was aware of the difficulty of cross-departmental process reengineering but also treated the project as a good example of executing the Administrative Permission Law. He strongly supported the project to extend to cross-department. He commented The difficulty lies in the reorganization of the work process, and we should make more efforts. The Deputy Secretary will be involved in the reorganization issues I would participate on some crucial decisions. We should first make a clear plan on how to do, then to implement. The reorganization of the work process is the key point. In my opinion, we should be confident in successful implementation of the project \(M-040409 With support from the municipal government Agency I distributed more resources to redesign the cross-departmental processes.  However, more and more complaints came out from involved bureaus during this period. Negotiations and communications among various bureaus were challenging to Agency I who need to rely on Department X to interact with other bureaus. Unfortunately, X did not have enough administrative authority to convince other bureaus or to approve Agency I s solution. More and more operational processes redesign remained unsolved Consequently, the project progress gradually slowed down. After three months, Agency I proposed a crossdepartmental system analysis and design report to meet new requirements from the Administrative Permission Law. However, considering implementation feasibility the plan was modified to develop a cross-departmental transaction support system with minimum process reengineering actions Since Department F was the project principal and Agency I agreed to work mostly with F s major duties in the preparing and planning stage to get funded, most new functions were only beneficial to F, and other bureaus transactions were designed to change according with F s specification. Therefore, the design was still largely questioned by other bureaus which had the same hierarchical level as F. The situation became hard to coordinate even by the Deputy Secretary of the municipality. After repeatedly hearing complaints from different channels and places, he stated The cross-department transaction process redesign and integration could not be accomplished all at once Now, our new work flow design needs more study. The feasibility of the design needs to be further demonstrated. It may be reasonable and acceptable that we conclude that the work is a mission impossible after the study \(M-040901 Agency I carried out further study and reported to the Vice Deputy Mayor, but did not get response which was a significant negative sign of  municipal support. One project team member at Agency I said  In order to further promote the cross-department work process integration, Mr. Z[the director of Agency I  once w r ote to the Vice  Deputy Mayor us ing his  personal relation, but got no response \(I-1 The Deputy Secretary also gave up the efforts to promote the project design. As the municipal government refused to comment on the crossdepartment design since August 2004, their behavior was understood as an implicit disagreement by team members. Moreover, the chief technical expert of Agency I left the team for personal reasons in late 2004 The project leader of Agency I stated the following Without experts in government informatization, we cannot control the situation of the project anymore Top management support from the mayor has also become impossible. The cross-department work process redesign and system implementation is hard to continue \(I-2 In 2005, Agency I realized that the enrolment of Department F and other departments is unrealistic in its initial goals. Agency I gave up all initial designs and turned to fully satisfy F s requirements. The FDMIS quickly transferred to a full internal operation support system for F. The content of the project decreased from 12 subsystems with a central data resource management platform and database to five subsystems with a bounded platform and database, while the total investment remained at the same level as initially budgeted \(15 million USD\e FDMIS is expected to be completed by June 2008 By partially dropping its initial goals, Agency I maintained the network and mobilized the alliance to finish the FDMIS. The FDMIS is enacted as an internal operation support system of Department F in the end  5. Conclusion   From an information system that covered all the land s lifecycle related processes and information to an internal operation support system, FDMIS exhibited high flexibility during the design and implementation Drawing upon the ANT, the paper argues that inscribed interests are the source of the interpretive flexibility Inscribed interests are appealed, fulfilled and dropped in different phases \(Table 1\Further, we propose that the heterogeneous interests constitute into an alliance through a phased networking and symbolization process    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


Table 1 Enacted FDMIS aligned with interests Actor Interests Problemtizati on Stability Munici pal Gover nment Enhance the transparency accountability macro-control and corruption prevention Fulfilled Symbolicall y Fulfilled Agenc y I 1  Crossdepartmental integration of processes and information 2  Economic benefit 1  Fulfilled 2  Fulfilled 1  Dropped 2  Partially Fulfilled Depart ment X 1  Show respect to the superior 2  Crossdepartmental integration of processes and information 1  Fulfilled 2  Fulfilled 1  Fulfilled 2  Dropped Depart ment F 1  Show respect to the superior 2  Efficiency of internal operation 1  Fulfilled 2  Not the focus 1  Fulfilled 2  Fulfilled Other Relate d Depart ments Show respect to the superior Fulfilled Fulfilled Enacte d FDMI S  A crossdepartmental IT to improve the administration of the real estate market The internal operation support system of Department F  Both theoretical and practical implications can be drawn from the analysis of this case study By providing an alternative explanation of the interpretive flexibility and investigating the process on how the flexibility comes into being, the paper argues that researchers will benefit from returning to origins of interpretive flexibility rather than solely relying on mental sides of human agency. We argue that the stabilization of the flexibility can also occur when heterogeneous interests are fulfilled, either actually or symbolically, even though the similar interpretation among different groups is not reached. As concerned in the FDMIS cases, municipal government, Department F and Agency I had different interpretations on the FDMIS even in the latest stage of the implementation The municipal government deemed it as an information system to enhance the macro-level governance, and the Department F took it as an internal operation support systems. And Agency I had no idea about the systems in the end. But the discordance among these three actors doesn t inhibit the announcement of success about FDMIS in the end, for all the interests were fulfilled wholly or partially, actually or symbolically Our research also generates implications for practitioners to be aware of run-away IT projects First of all, the challenges of e-government projects as is often the case with ERPs, are not technological ones. The key barrier lies with the resistance to the necessary institutional changes which e-government projects are designed to bring about. E-government projects which attempt to improve transparency and fight corruption inevitably touches upon political interests. They are unlikely to succeed without strong commitment from centralized authority. In this case the project is only of symbolic importance to the mayor and most departments, and Agency I, the IT vendor became the main driver of the inter-departmental system that was originally intended, which it fails to achieve in the end due to the absence of strong alliance from higher governmental authority Secondly, too much flexibility in project management will weaken the original functionalities planned. Take this case as an example, the initially planned cross-departmental and macro-level \(enhance the transparency, accountability, macro-control and corruption prevention\ functionalities have been weakened and even canceled in the end. We consider it should be related to the soft budget constraint in the egovernment project. In some cases, the audit of egovernment project means only to check the investment planned and reached, not to do with the functionalities. The complexity of advanced information systems and absence of IT professionals in e-government auditing also make it hard to set hard budget constraints on e-government projects. But practitioners in governments should pay attention to these types of run-away IT projects. More concrete terms about the functionalities of an intended system should be emphasized in the budget, and quantitative terms are preferred to vague requirements Our study focused on the design process of the system which demonstrates a great deal of interpretive flexibility. It would be useful to follow up the process when the system is adopted and used, and examine whether or how interpretive flexibility of the system was addressed. Nevertheless, this study shows governments that aim to reap the benefit of egovernment should be ready to face the complexities and possible drifting of e-government projects, and to commit to a substantial transition within the government if the project is not only to serve symbolic values  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


6. References   Ch en Y N  et al   E-Government Strategies in Developed and Developing Countries: An Implementation Framework and Case Study Journal of Global Information Management, 2006 14 1\: p. 23-46 2 Zha n g  J  A critical review of the development of Chinese e-Government Perspectives, 2002 3 7 3 Zha n g  J  China's "Government Online" and attempts to gain technical legitimacy ASIEN, 2001 80 Summer 1-15  UNDES A   World Public Sector Report: E-government at the Crossroads UN: New York, 2003 5 D a v i s on, R., C  W a g n e r a nd L C.K Ma  From Government to E-government: A Transition Model  Information Technology & People, 2005 18 3\: p. 280299 6 Zh ou  X  E-government in China: A Content Analysis of National and Provincial Web Sites Journal of Computer Mediated Communication, 2004 9 4 7 Sa ha y  S. a n d D  R obe y   Organizational Context, Social Interaction, and the Implementation and Consequences of Geographic Information Systems Accounting Management and Information Technologies, 1996 6 4\ p 255-282 8 D o he rty  N  F., C  R. C oom bs  a nd J  L o a n Cla r k e  A reconceptualization of the interpretive flexibility of information technologies: redressing the balance between the social and the technical European Journal of Information Systems, 2006 15 6\: p. 569 582 9 Ca dili S. a n d E.A  W h itle y   On the interpretative flexibility of hosted ERP systems Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 2005 14 2\: p. 167-195 10 ow sk i, W  The Duality of Technology Rethinking the Concept of Technology in Organizations  Organization Science, 1992 3 3\: p. 398-427 11 Ca llo n, M  Techno-economic networks and irreversibility in A sociology of monsters: essays on power technology and domination J. Law, Editor. 1991 Routledge: London. p. 132-161 12 Ca ll on M  Some elements of a sociology of translation: Domestication of the scallops and fishermen of St. Brieuc Bay in Power, action and belief: a new sociology of knowledge J. Law, Editor. 1986, Routledge London. p. 196-233 13 A k rich M  The de-scription of technical objects in Shaping technology / building society: studies in sociotechnical change W.E. Bijker and J. Law, Editors 1994, The MIT Press: Cambridge Ma. p. 205-224 1 La t o u r B   On actor-network theory Soziale Welt, Jg 1996 47 p. 369-381 15 h m a n, R.G  Going Beyond the Dominant Paradigm for Information Technology Innovation Research: Emerging Concepts and Methods Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 2004 5 8\: p. 314355 16  Me lv ille N., K. Kra e m e r a nd V  G u rba x a ni Review Information Technology and Organizational Performance An Integrative Model of IT Business Value MIS Quarterly 2004 28 2\: p. 283-322 1 o h li R an d V  G r o v er Business Value of IT: An Essay on Expanding Research Directions to Keep up with the Times Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 2008 9 1\: p. 23-39 18 G i dde ns A  The Constitution of Society: Outline of the Theory of Structuration 1984, Berkeley, CA University of California Press 19 L a tour B  Science in action: how to follow scientists and engineers through society 1987, Cambridge, MA Harvard University Press 20 Brey   P    Philosophy of Technology Meets Social Constructivism Society for Philosophy & Technology 1997 2 3\: p. 4 21  P i nc h T  a n d W  E. Bijk e r   The Social Construction of Facts and Artifacts: or how the sociology of science and sociology of technology might benefit each other in The Social Construction of Technological Systems W.E. Bijker H. P, and T. Pinch, Editors. 1987, The MIT Press Cambridge. p. 159-187 22 L a w  J  a nd M Ca llo n The Life and Death of an Aircraft: A network analysis of technical chane in Shaping Technology/Building Society W.E. Bijker and J. Law Editors. 1992, The MIT Press: Cambridge. p. 21-52 23 Bijk e r W  E Of Bicycles, Bakelites, and Bulbs Toward a Theory of Sociotechnical Change 1995 Cambridge MA: MIT Press 24 W a ls ha m  G  Actor-Network Theory and IS Research Current Status and Future Prospects in Information Systems and Qualitative Research A.S. Lee, J. Liebenau and J.I. DeGross, Editors. 1997, Chapman and Hall London. p. 466-480 25 W a ls ha m   G  Doing Interpretive Research European Journal of Information Systems, 2006 15 320-330 2  H K a n d M  D M y er s  A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems MIS Quarterly, 1999 23 1\ p. 67-93 27 W a ls ha m   G  Interpretive case studies in IS research nature and method European Journal of Information Systems, 1995 4 2\: p. 74-81 28 Ec on om is t, T  Sky-High Shanghai in The Economist  2005. p. 96 29 P a g e  S  The Web of Managerial Accountability: The Impact of Reinventing Government Administration Society, 2006 38 2\: p. 166 30 V e n k atraman  N IT-Enabled Business Transformation: From Automation to Business Scope Redefinition Sloan Managemen t Review, 1994 1994 Winter\87 3 Heeks R   Reinventing Government in the Information Age: international practice in IT-enabled public sector reform 1999, London: Routledge 3 R e d d i c k C  G    A two-stage model of e-government growth: Theories and empirical evidence for US cities  Government Information Quarterly, 2004 21 1\: p. 51-64   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11 Maur\355cio Pazini Brand\343o  was born in Votuporanga Brazil. He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Aeronautical Engineering from Instituto Tecnol\363gico de Aeron\341utica ITA\ a PhD degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University. His main research interests are aircraft design, structural dynamics and integrity aeroelasticity, and aeroacoustics. He has served as researcher and administrator at the Institute of Aeronautics and Space \(IAE Aeronautical Systems. He was, from 2000 to 2005, Director to the Institute for Advanced Studies \(IEAv\rrently is a Professor of Aeronautical Engineering at Instituto Tecnol\363gico de Aeron\341utica \(ITA Military in active duty he holds the rank of Brigadier General and is presently appointed as Deputy Director of the General-Command of Aerospace Technology CTA\ber of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \(AIAA 


John W Lockwood designs and implements networking systems in recongurable hardware During 2007 he served as a Visiting Associate Professor at Stanford University to manage the Alpha and Beta releases of the NetFPGA Prior to working at Stanford he led the the Recongurable Network Group RNG at Washington University The RNG research group developed the Field programmable Port Extender FPX to enable rapid prototype of extensible network modules in Fie ld Programmable Gate Array FPGA technology As an Associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Washington University in Saint Louis He has published over 75 full-length papers in journals and major technical conferences that describe technologies for prov iding extensible network services in wireless LANs and in high speed networks Professor Lockwood has served as the principal investigator on grants from the National Science Foun dation Xilinx Altera Nortel Networks Rockwell Collins  and Boeing He has worked in industry for AT&T Bell Laboratories IBM Science Applications International Corpo ration SAIC and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications NCSA He served as a co-founder of Global Velocity a networking startup company focused on high-speed data security Dr Lockwood earned his MS BS and PhD degrees from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois He is a member of IEEE ACM Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu 12 


 13 Y. H. Bill Ho is currently a Technical Fellow of Vehicle System/Subsystem Design and Integration of Integrated Systems Western Region Sector Northrop Grumman Corp. He has over 29 years of military aircraft design and technology development experience. He was the program manager and principal investigator of the IFCAHM program and was the NGC Air System PHM lead of the F-35 program. He is experienced in flight control system, thermal management, more-electric aircraft, and PHM system design and development. He has B.S. and M.S. degree in Aeronautical Engineering and certificates of Project Management and System Engineering  Gabriel Tannenbaum is a Senior Project Engineer at Moog Inc, Space and Defense Group. He has over 20 years experience in the design development and integration of complex electro-mechanical actuation systems combined at Moog and Lucas Aerospace. Other areas of his past work include ultrasonic non-destructive test equipment design at TRW and radiation monitoring systems design and integration at Victoreen Inc Gabriel Tannenbaum received his Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering \(BSEE\ the Technion Israel Institute of Technol ogy. He received his Masters degree in Electrical Engineer ing \(MSEE\ the Ohio State University, and a Masters degree in Business Administration \(MBA\ Ke nt State University  J. B. Schroeder is currently the program manager for the Sentient Adaptive Systems Technologies SAST\egrated Flight Control Actuator Health Management IFC&AHM\s.  He is assigned to the Air Force Research Laboratory Control Systems Development and Applications Branch of the Air Vehicle Directorate at Wright Patters on Air Force Base, Ohio.  Mr Schroeder graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy with a B.S. degree and completed an MBA at State University of New York, Binghamton.  He has flown B 52 and C 7 aircraft in his active duty assignments with the Air Force.        In the private sector Mr Schroeder has been associated with Honeywell Sperry, General Electric and Aydin Vector Corporations primarily in technical sales and marketing.        Since 1987 he has worked in the Air Vehicle Directorate as a project engineer for, among other programs, Self Repairing Flight Control System, Integrated Prognostics and Health Management with principal responsibility for Flight Contro l Integrated Vehicle Health Management 


Our current implementa tion does not support documents with “variable-le ngth arrays” – lists of identically structured elements with non-fixed lengths Otherwise identically structured documents with different array lengths are currently considered as having different structure We are currently working on supporting “variablelength arrays” to extend the applicability of Structure Encoding. We are also looking at provide similar, but less aggressive, optimization support for schemaconforming documents REFERENCES  Nokia Web Services – Helping Operators Mobilize the Internet Http://www.projectliberty.org/resources/whitepapers/W S_Operators_A4_0408.pdf  The SAX Project. http://www.saxproject.org  XML Pull Parsing. http://www.xmlpull.org  W3C Document Object Model http://www.w3.org/DOM  WAP Binary XML Content Format http://www.w3.org/TR/wbxml  Efficiency Structured XML. http://www.esxml.org  VTD-XML. http://vtd-xml.sourceforge.net  XSLTC Documentation. http://xml.apache.org/xalanj/xsltc  kXML. http://www.kxml.org  Liefke, H. and D. Suciu. XMill: An Efficient Compressor for XML Data. In Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Management of Data. May 2000  Liu, L., C. Pu, and W. Tang. WebCQ: Detecting and Delivering Information Changes on the Web" In the Proceedings of International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management \(CIKM  The XT XSLT processor http://www.blnz.com/xt/index.html  Sarvega,Inc. http://www.sarvega.com  DataPower Technology, Inc http://www.datapower.com  Rax Content Processor http://www.tarari.com/rax/index.html  The Sarvega XSLT Benchmark Study, Sarvega Inc http://www.sarvega.com/xslt-benchmark.php  XSLTMark http://www.datapower.com/xmldev/xsltmark.html  Eisenhauer, G. and L. K. Daley. Fast Heterogenous Binary Data Interchange. In Proceedings of the 9th Heterogeneous Computing Workshop \(HCW 2000 90-101  Bustamente, F., G. Eisenhauer, K.Schwan, and P Widener. Efficient Wire Formats for High Performance Computing. In Proceedings of High Performance Networking and Computing Conference, 2000 SC’2000  Toshiro Takase, Hisashi Miyashita, Toyotaro Suzumura, and Michiaki Tatsubori, An Adaptive, Fast and Safe XML Parser Based on Byte Sequence Memorization. In Proc. of WWW’2005  XML-RPC. http://www.xmlrpc.com  Open  Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  RSS 2.0 Specification http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss  Open Mobile Alliance http://www.openmobilealliance.org  M ogul, J., F. Douglis, A. Feldm an, and B Krishnamurthy. Potential benefits of deltaencoding and compression for HTTP In Proc SIGCOMM’97 1997  Spring, N. T., and D. W e therall. A protocolindependent technique for eliminating redundant network traffic In Proc. SIGCOMM’00 2000  Chiu, K., and W  Lu. A Com piler-Based Approach to Schema-Specific XML Parsing. In First Internati onal Workshop on High Performance XML Processing, May 2004  Matsa, M., E. Perkins, A. Heifets, M. G.aitatzes Kostoulas, D. Silva, N. Mendelsohn, M. Leger. A high-performance interpretive approach to schema-directed parsing. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on World Wide Web, 2007  Noga, M  L., Schott, S., and Löwe, W  2002. Lazy  XML processing. In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM Symposium on Document Engineering McLean, Virginia, USA, November 08 - 09 2002\02. ACM, New York, NY  Farfán, F., V. Hristidis and R. Rangaswam i Beyond Lazy XML Parsing. In Proceedings of the 18th International Conference \(DEXA 200 September 3-7, 2007  
324 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


