Information Privacy Values, Beliefs and Attitudes An Empirical Analysis of Web 2.0 Privacy   Tamara Dinev Florida Atlantic University tdinev@fau.edu Heng Xu Pennsylvania State University hxu@ist.psu.edu H. Jeff Smith Miami University jeff.smith@muohio.edu   Abstract  The commercial potential and rapid growth of Web 2.0 phenomenon have been accompanied by concerns regarding the collection, dissemination, and reidentification of personal information by website 
operators, marketers, and ot her users on the social networks. To address critical and acute concerns for information privacy, this study investigated users privacy perceptions in the Web 2.0 context by integrating privacy values, beliefs and attitudes into a theoretical framework. The research model was tested through a survey study among 218 users of Web 2.0related sites. In addition to enhancing our theoretical understanding of privacy issues in the Web 2.0 context this research is also potentially useful to privacy advocates, the website operators, and marketers to help shape or justify their decisions concerning the development and deployment of Web 2.0 features  Keywords Perceived Privacy, Information Control 
Perceived Vu lnerability Anonymity, Secrecy    1. Introduction  Recently, the booming popularity of Web 2.0 has attracted significant attention. By providing usercentered platforms for information sharing, information publishing, collective editing and collaboration, Web 2.0 is disrupting traditional ideas about how users interact online and how content is generated, shared and distributed. In the literature, Web 2.0 is often considered to be inclusive of a shift from a World Wide Web that is read only 
to a Web that is being described as the Read Write Web  am ple s of prominent Web 2.0 features that support the creation and consumption of user generated contents include blogging \(e.g., Blogger\, tagging \(e.g del.icio.us, and Flickr user-driven ratings \(e.g., Digg\, and social networking \(e.g., Facebook and MySpace\mong many others The explosion of Web 2.0 technologies creates a plethora of niche markets within the media landscape that are expected to generated $4.3 billion by 2011 
more than four times what Web 2.0-related sites generated in 2007 with more than 70 million users 20  Among these Web 2.0-related sites, the growth of social networking sites \(SNSs\ has been striking, especially among young adults. For example, both MySpace.com and Facebook.com have attracted about 115 million unique visitors in Ap ccordin g to a recent industry report published by eMarketer.com, it is estimated that 50 percent of U.S. adult Internet users and 84 percent of online teens will engage in online social networking monthl  
Furthermore the revenue potential of social networks through advertising is huge: marketers are expected to spend 1.6 billion in 2008 to reach users of online social networks  Unsurprisingly, the commercial potential and rapid growth of Web 2.0-related sites have been accompanied by concerns regarding the collection, dissemination and re-identification of personal information by website operators, marketers, and other users on these sites These concerns pertain to the confidentiality of accumulated personal data and the potential risks that 
users may experience over the possible privacy and security breaches ers of te n rev eal an d s h are a  lot of their personal information on Web 2.0-related sites, thus exposing their published personal information with potential abuse by online crooks stalkers, bullies, and, not rarely, even by their own friends  To address critical and acute concerns for information privacy, this study investigated users  privacy perceptions by integrating privacy values beliefs and attitudes into a theoretical framework. We 
conducted a survey study to test the research model. In what follows, we first present the literature review for our research, describing the overarching theory that guides the development of the research model.  Then we develop the logic underlying the research hypotheses that identify the process through which individuals form privacy perceptions. This is followed by a description of the research methodology and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 1 978-0-7695-3450-3/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE 


  findings.  The paper concludes with a discussion of the results and implications of the findings   2. Theory  2.1. The Concept of Privacy Researchers from a number of disciplines have examined the concept of privacy including psychology e.g., 3 h u m a n res o u r ce s [55 59 s o ciolog y e.g   e.g 49], politi cal scien ce [e.g 63 marketing [e.g., 26  a n d  ma na ge me nt i n fo r m a t i o n systems [e.g., 14, 35 T h is rich g roun d of  conceptual and empirical exploration has led to welcome efforts to synthesize various perspectives and identify common ground [53  Due to the complexity and inconsistencies of defining and measuring privacy per se, most behavioral research on privacy used privacy concerns as a proxy for the concept of privacy. A very extensive body of literature examines privacy concerns \(for references see for example Dinev and Hart es pecially  because these are also the very proxy used to measure privacy attitudes in public opinion polls and marketing firms and thus provide a good connection with individuals' primal feelings when thinking about privacy. Landmark studies that have impacted our understanding of privacy concerns and their implications on individual's behavior include those of Culnan u ln a n a n d A r ms tron g 14], Milberg et al  otra et al. [3 2] an d m a ny ot h e rs Sm it h et al   dev e loped C o n cern f o r In f o r m atio n Priv ac y C F I P scale which identified four data-related dimensions of information privacy concer ns \(collection, errors secondary use, and unauthorized access to information These dimensions have since served as some of the most reliable scales for measuring individuals concerns toward organizational privacy practices In this study, however, we will consciously stay away from the commonly adopted proxy to privacy Instead, we attempt to seek a rigorous definition and antecedents to information privacy per se. We do this for three reasons: while a good proxy for information privacy, we believe that information privacy concerns are not identical to information privacy indeed, one may have high concerns about his or her privacy and yet it may be that his or her privacy may have not been violated, and vice versa. Until we do not know what privacy is \(that is, have not defined it rigorously yet\, at least we cannot claim that it is identical to privacy concerns. The second reason to avoid privacy concerns as a construct in our model is that we did not find it in the aforementioned privacy theories, nor did we find it as a possible dimension of privacy per se. Finally privacy concerns carry a negative connotation of the concept of privacy and thus may be inadequate if privacy should be regarded as potentially valuable to any human being and the society as a whole One of the most telling observations about the lack of identification of privacy is the one of Margulis  theorists do not agree...on what privacy is or on whether privacy is a behavior, attitude, process, goal phenomenal state, or what p. 17\Privacy has been described as multidimensional, elastic, depending upon context, and dynamic in the sense that it varies with life experien h is ric h  g r ou n d of co n c eptu al an d  empirical exploration has led to welcome efforts to synthesize various perspectives and identify common ground    2.2. Privacy Attitudes, Beliefs, and Values In social-psychology literature,  values, beliefs, and attitudes are theoretically and empirically connected to each othe u d e ref e r s  to a person s favorable or unfavorable evaluation of an object. Belief, as a psychological state, represents the information that the person has about the obj Belief is us u a ll y  shaped by the internalization of value formed through affective and cognitive evaluations e, def i n e d as preferences for certain end-states of existence  evolves from circumstances with the external world and can change over time. Once a value has been internalized, it becomes a criterion for developing and maintaining belief toward relevant objects and situations e i s s h o w n to be a k e y deter m i n a n t  of attitude through the mediating role of belief [e.g   Figure 1. Research Model  Following the similar theoretical reasoning, for the context of information privacy in this research, we conceptualize and operationalize privacy as an attitude, defined as a learned predisposition to respond in a favorable or unfavorable manner to information disclosu We dev e lop  a m odel to u n d ers t a n d th e  underlying antecedents to the attitude factor \(i.e Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 2 


  perceived privacy\, namely perceived vulnerability and perceived information control, as each operates as a privacy belief related to the potential consequence of information disclosure. We further identify the antecedents to these two privacy beliefs and propose that: \(1\ individual s belief about the information control is a function of anonymity d s ecrec y to  data [9, 57 2  in div i du al s belief about the vulnerability is a function of the type of information collected by an organization d th e ex pectation  about the information handling \(collection, storage usage, and dissemination\ practices of the organization  u r e 1 pres e n t s th e res earch  m odel  2.3. Beliefs-Attitudes Relationship A number of studies support for the correlation between privacy attitudes and privacy beliefs Consistent with the privacy literatu w e iden t i fy two factors account for the level of privacy perception an individual develops when determining whether to disclose personal information: perceived information control and perceived vulnerability. The relationships between these two constructs and perceived privacy are based on definitions of privacy that have emerged among scholars from a range of disciplines  Two important streams of research have followed Altman s  d Wes tin s i n iti on s o f priv a c y Bas e d o n a  psychological interest in how individuals interact with their physical, social, and cultural environments Altman i n e d priv a c y a s a proces s of regu lat i ng social interactions the selective control of access to the self p. 24\estin s rspectiv e is m o re focused on information disclosure Privacy is the claim of individuals, groups, or institutions to determine for themselves when, how, and to what extent information about them is communicated to others p. 7\ comparing the work of these two scholars and those whose research is based on these definitions, Margul d en tified com m o n core elements Privacy involves control over transactions interactions, communications\at regulate access to self and that, as a consequence, reduce vulnerability and increase decisional and behavioral options p. 415 This definition reflects the view of privacy as a complex construct, the dichotomy between the individual and others d captu r es th e i m portant factors of privacy: \(1\ntrol over disclosure of personal information, and \(2\e notion of vulnerability  Below, we present the theoretical foundation of the control and vulnerability constructs, and their relationship with perceived privacy, and the resulting hypotheses  2.3.1. Perceived Information Control Consumers, in general, find it unacceptable for marketers to sell information about them h ey  s t renu ous l y obj ect to  the secondary use of personal information without their knowledge dis c us s e d abov e, th e ele m en t of control is embedded in most privacy definitions and has been used to operationalize privacy in numerous measurement instruments [3, 13, 32 T h e  conceptualization of control as a related but separate variable from privacy concerns may prove to be controversial [33  O n e o f t h e st r o nge st a r gu me nt s fo r  separating control from privacy concerns was made by Laufer and Wolfe [31   w h o e s se nt i a l l y a r gue d t h a t  the dimensions of the privacy phenomenon are conceptually distinct from control/choice, which is a mediating variable p. 39\They further argue that a situation is not necessarily a privacy situation simply because the individual perceives, experiences, or exercises control p. 26\onversely, the individual may not perceive she has control, yet the environmental and interpersonal elements may create perceptions of privacy  These considerations suggest that perceived control over disclosure and subsequent use of personal information is a separate construct from privacy concerns. Following this perspective, we propose that perceived control over personal information is strongly related to information privacy. Individuals tend to perceive disclosure as less privacy-invasive when they believe that they have control over the collection and use of their personal information S e v e ral priv a c y  studies argue that the loss of control over personal information is central to the notion of privacy invasion  h eref ore w e  hypoth e s i ze  H1. Perceived information control positively affects perceived privacy   2.3.2. Perceived Vulnerability Perceived vulnerability enters a decision-making process when circumstances of the decision create feelings of uncertainty discomfort and/or anxiety u ch a s  w h en conf lict  arouses in the consumer concern c h o log i cal  discomfort triggers feelings of uncertainty [40  a nxi e t y causes pain d wh en  th ere i s cogn iti v e  dissonanc  T h e n o tion of v u ln erabilit y is related  to privacy and shares some of the latter s complexity Introduced separately from privacy, vulnerability has been described as the perceived potential risk that occurs when personal information is revealed [44   However, it has also been described as a possible consequence of concealing information, when disclosure would be important for attaining a positive outcome n d Ho y e r [24] an d P etron io  a v e argu ed t h at th e perceiv e d s t a t e of priv a c y i s  determined by an individual s sense of vulnerability Applying their findings to the specific context of Web 2.0, we define the perception of vulnerability as the user s perceived expectation of suffering a negative Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


  outcome as a consequence of online disclosure of personal information Users may perceive two kinds of vulnerabilities if their personal information is not used fairly or responsibly [13, 26 F i rs t, a u s er m a y perceiv e t h at  her privacy is invaded if unauthorized access is made to her personal information as a result of a security breach or in the absence of appropriate internal controls Second, as computerized information may be readily duplicated and shared, a user may perceive a relatively high risk that the information she has provided is being put into secondary use for unrelated purposes without her knowledge or consen th e con t ex t of W e b 2.0, improper handling of personal information would result in the discovery and matching of personal data to enhance the visibility of their behavior, and increase the scope for situations that may be personally embarrassing to them. Furthermore, users often reveal a lot of personal information through social networking sites and blogs, thus exposing their published personal information with potential abuse by online crooks stalkers, and bullies T h eref ore w h e n  individuals perceive that information will not be used fairly and that there will be negative consequences, they will be less likely to engage in the online activities that require information disclosure. Hence, we hypothesize H2. Perceived vulner ability negatively affects perceived privacy   2.4. Value-Beliefs Relationship  2.4.1. Mechanisms to Information Control Based on the proposed definitions and the direct relationship between perceived information control and perceived privacy, we posit that the Westin's states of privacy are actually mechanisms for maintaining the desired state of privacy which, in the case of information privacy, is achieved through control over the information exchange between the individual and the world outside his or her information boundaries l arl y relev a n t to information privacy are anonymity and secrecy, and we introduce these constructs in our model as predictors to perceived information control. Solitude and isolation defined as absence of others is specific to physical privacy is h a rd to tra n s pos e th e conn otation of solitude to the realm of information privacy where data flow in the networked computers and digital devices regardless whether an individual is alone in the physical space. Likewise, intimacy loses its relevance in the information privacy since electronic exchange between the individual and an intimate partner or group \(e.g chatrooms, text messages and emails etc.\n be easily captured and retained by any third party sniffing or storage tool Anonymity is the ability to conceal the relationship between a particular user and the data about him. It is central for the information collected for statistical purposes. The distinction between privacy and anonymity is clearly seen in the information technology context. Anonymity corresponds to being able to send the contents of the e-mail without any information that enables a reader of the message to identify the person who wrote it. Anonymizers \(e.g., anti-spyware tools anonymous browsers\ allow an individual to explore cyberspace \(e.g., using e-mail, viewing Web sites\with a high degree of anonymit On lin e an o n y m o u s communication is morally neutral and should be considered a human and constitutional right, according to Teich et al On lin e anony m i zatio n  m e c h an i s m s  offer several types and levels of anonymity i ng users the option to conceal their identities seems a viable way to alleviate users privacy concerns while preserving the benefits of personalized interaction Users beliefs in anonymity can be expected to lead to more extensive and frank interaction, hence to higher level of information control perceptions. Therefore H3. Anonymity positively affects perceived information control Secrecy has been defined as intentional concealment of inform lth o u gh  s ecrec y  is  easily distinguishable from privacy, they are often mistaken and confused with each othe P riv a c y  need not hide; and secrecy hides far more than what is private" [9, p propert y ca n be priv a te b u t n o t necessarily secret, and vice versa: a gift can be secret but not necessarily private. Warren and Lasle o  reflect on the conceptual comparison between privacy and secrecy: according to them, secrecy implies the concealment of something which is negatively valued by the excluded audience; privacy, by contrast protects behavior which is either morally neutral or valued by society. Additionally, while privacy is consensual the behavior it protects is socially legitimated, secrecy is nonconsensual and usually involves the interest of the exclud y  en ables i n dividu als to manipulate and control environments by denying outsiders vital information about themselves [57  T h u s   secrecy is directly related to control H4. Secrecy positively affects perceived information control  2.4.2. Information Sensitivity Support for individuals having different information-related beliefs as a consequence of differing information experiences or interacting with external environment is suggested by prior privacy literatur It h a s been s h o w n t h at  perceived privacy beliefs is a function of the type of personal information collected, stored, used, and released by an organization [32, 39, 47, 50  A l l t h i n g s  being equal, individuals perceive greater vulnerability when disclosing more sensitive information than they Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


  do for disclosing less sensitive information. In the context of social networking sites, it has been shown that majority of users are selective in terms of the type of personal information they post online. For example most would publish their sexual orientation, birthday and political views but conceal the class schedule address, home phone and cell phone numbers h u s   when sensitive information is requested, vulnerability beliefs are hypothesized to increase H5. Information sensitivity positively affects perceived vulnerability   2.4.3. Expectation of Information Practices A common phrase in discussions of privacy is reasonable expectation of privacy which has a long history in case law th e con t e x t o f i n f o r m ation priv ac y  th e  expectations are all about how the information will be handled by the organizations. Thus, expectation of information practices is defined by the individual's expectations on how organization should handle collect, store, use, and release\is or her personal information and data so that data will not suffer accidental disclosure and harm in any way the individu pectation s  of priv a c y  v a r y depen d ing on many factors, but place and social relationships are among the most important a m in ed  Internet users major expectations about website privacy and revealed a notable discrepancy between what privacy policies are currently stating and what users deem most significant. The hypothesized relationship between expectation of information practices and perceived vulnerability is supported by the research of Awad and Krishn w h ic h re v ealed that perceived privacy beliefs were significantly related with individuals expectations of the organization's information-handling practices. It has been indicated that customers who desire greater information privacy perceive greater vulnerability and thus are less willing to be prof ce, w e  hy pot h e s i ze   H6. Expectation of information practices positively affects perceived vulnerability    3. Method  3.1. Scale Development The research hypotheses were empirically tested using data collected with a survey that included items for the constructs specified in the model. Scale development for the constructs was based on an extensive survey of the privacy literature. Validated standard scales were adapted for use as much as possible. Perceived privacy was measured by three questions adapted from w i n g on D i n e v a n d  w e  m eas u r ed perceiv ed vu ln erabilit y  u s i n g four items to reflect the potential losses associated with the information disclosure. Items measuring perceived privacy control were measured by four questions that were directly taken from Xu onym i t y  w a s measured three items developed from d s e crecy  was measured by three items adapted from   Information sensitivity was measured by three items based on d expectation  f o r priv a c y  w a s measured by four items adapted from   3.2. Survey Administration The initial questionnaire was reviewed by four Information Systems \(IS\aculty members for clarity Next, a pilot study involving 51 undergraduate students was conducted using the improved questionnaire. The main objectives of the pilot study were to assess the clarity and conciseness of the survey instructions and questions, evaluate the measurement model, and gauge the duration of the survey. The respondents were also contacted for a face-to-face interview so that their opinions on the survey instructions and questions could be gathered. Following their feedback and analysis of measurement model, a number of revisions were made some items were dropped, wording changes were made and instructions that the respondents found confusing were clarified. All measurement items were included in the Appendix A  Table 1. Respondent Demographics  The survey was administered to undergraduate graduate and MBA students at two large universities in the U.S. Participants were asked to recall their experiences in using Web 2.0-related sites such blogging sites \(e.g., Blogger\, tagging sites \(e.g del.icio.us, and Flickr er-driven rating sites \(e.g Digg\d social networking sites \(e.g., Facebook and MySpace\hey were also asked to list the name or URL of the website that they used within the last 6 months. Since participation of the study was completely voluntary, several respondents submitted empty or only Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


  partially filled questionnaires that were subsequently eliminated.  A total of 218 responses were usable Table 1 provides respondent demographics Non-response bias was assessed by verifying that early and late respondents were not significantly different y res ponden t s  w e re th o s e w h o  responded within the first week \(48%\The two groups of early and late respondents were compared based on their demographics \(age, gender and Web usage experience\-test comparisons between the means of the two groups showed insignificant differences   4. Data Analysis and Results Partial least squares \(PLS\, a second-generation causal modeling statistical technique, was used for data analysis  4.1. Measurement Model We evaluated the measurement model by examining the convergent validity and discriminant validity of the research instrument. Convergent validity is the degree to which different attempts to measure the same construct ag L S, t h ree te s t s are us ed to determine the convergent validity of measured reflective constructs in a single instrument: reliability of items, composite reliability of constructs, and average variance extracted by constructs. Table 2 presents the assessment of the measurement model  Table 2. Measurement Model   We assessed item reliability by examining the loading of each item on the construct and found the reliability score for all the items exceeded the criterion of 0.707. Thus, the questions measuring each construct in our experiment had adequate item reliability Composite reliabilities of constructs with multiple indicators exceeded Nunnally s of 0.7   The average variances extracted for the constructs were all above 50 percent, and the Cronbach s alphas were also all higher than 0.7. These results support the convergent validity of the measurement model Discriminant validity is the degree to which measures of different constructs are distin T o  test discriminant validity, the square root of the variance shared between a construct and its measures should be greater than the correlations between the construct and any other construct in the model. Table 3 reports the results of discriminant validity which may be seen by comparing the diagonal to the non-diagonal elements. All items in our study fulfilled the requirement of discriminant validity  Table 3. Discriminant Validity  4.2. Structural Model After establishing the validity of the measures, we tested the structural paths in the research model using PLS. We conducted hypothesis tests by examining the sign and significance of the path coefficients. A bootstrapping technique was applied to estimate the significance of the path coefficients. Since PLS does not generate any overall goodness of fit indices predictive validity is assessed primarily through an examination of the explanatory power and significance of the hypothesized paths. The explanatory power of the structural model is assessed based on the amount of variance explained in the endogenous construct \(i.e privacy concerns in our study\. We conducted the statistical tests at a five-percent level of significance using one-tailed t-tests Figure 2 presents the structural models. The structural models explain 52.2% of the variance in perceived privacy.  As hypothesized, perceived control and perceived vulnerability strongly influence perception of privacy, thus validating H1 and H2 Anonymity and secrecy are found to be the significant mechanisms to information control, validating H3 and H4. Information sensitivity and expectation of privacy are found to have significant impacts on perceived vulnerability, validating H5 and H6 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  Figure 2. Structural Model   5. Discussion and Conclusion This study developed and empirically tested a research model to investigate privacy perceptions in Web 2.0-related sites. Our proposed model is able to account for 52.2% of the variance in perceived privacy and thus possesses enough explanatory power to make the interpretation of path coefficients meaningful. The evidence from this study provided empirical support that privacy attitudes are grounded in both an individual s values in terms of information sensitivity and expectations of organizational privacy practices that enable a person to assess the consequences of information disclosure. A cognitive process of assessing perceived information control and perceived vulnerability is shown to be important in shaping an individual s privacy perception This research presents a model linking privacy values, beliefs and attitudes together, which shows that privacy constructs relate to each other in organized meaningful ways. This is important because definitions of privacy and relationships among privacy-related constructs have been inconsistent and not fully developed in the extant literature. Having a coherently developed and rigorously tested framework with consistent set of constructs should enable privacy research to progress more quickly by having systematic understandings. From a practical perspective, this study shows that vulnerability beliefs and perceived information control are the important factors in users  interactions with Web 2.0-related sites. In this aspect this study provides some insights into the approaches that could be used by a Web 2.0 site operator to address privacy issues by reducing vulnerability beliefs and enhancing control perceptions. To the extent that perceived control is a key factor influencing privacy perception, it is important for Web 2.0 site operators to develop privacy control features with user-friendly interfaces for ensuring individual s capability to maintain the anonymity and secrecy of their personal information Users information control and vulnerability perceptions could play primary roles in addressing privacy issues pertaining to Web 2.0-related sites especially in the absence of well-established legal resources. This study provides a preliminary understanding of the privacy issues in Web 2.0-related sites by integrating privacy values, beliefs and attitudes into a theoretical framework. Using the groundwork laid down in this study, further work could contribute significantly to extending our theoretical understanding and practical ability to foster the diffusion of Web 2.0 features   6. References   A c qu i s ti an d R  Gros s   I m a g i n e d Communities: Awareness, Information Sharing, and Privacy on the Facebook Proceedings of Proceedings of Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium 2006 pp. 36-58   I. A j zen an d M. F i s h bei n   Understanding Attitudes and Predicting Social Behavior Englewood Cliffs, NJ Prentice-Hall, 1980   I. A l t m a n  The Environment and Social Behavior Privacy, Personal Space, Territory, and Crowding  Monterey, CA: Brooks/Cole Publishing, 1975   I. A l t m a n  P riv acy  R e gulation  Cu lt u r all y  Universal or Culturally Specific Journal of Social Issues vol. 33, no. 3, 1977, pp. 66-84   J  S. A r m s trong a n d T  S Ov erton   E sti m at ing  Non-response Bias in Mail Surveys Journal of Marketing Research vol. 14, August, 1977, pp. 396402   A rring ton  F acebook  No L ong er T h e S econ d  Largest Social Network, in The Washington Post. 2008  http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2008/06/13/AR2008061300129.html   7 N F Aw a d a n d M  S Kr is hna n  T he  personalization privacy paradox: An empirical evaluation of information transparency and the willingness to be profiled online for personalization MIS Quarterly vol. 30, no. 1, 2006, pp. 13-28   J   B e ttm a n  P erceiv ed ri sk a n d its co m pon e n ts a model and empirical test Journal of Marketing Research vol. 10, 1973, pp. 184-190     Bok  Secrets: On the Ethics of Concealment and Revelation JSTOR, 1989 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


    D T  C a m pbell an d D.W  F i s k e C onv erg e n t an d Discriminant Validation by the Multitrait-Multimethod Matrix Psychological Bulletin vol. 56, no. 1, 1959 pp. 81-105   R  K. C h ellappa C on s u m e rs Trust in Electronic Commerce Transactions: The Role of Perceived Privacy and Perceived Security Working Paper 2008 Emory University: Atlanta, GA   M. C ook an d D.T. C a m pbell QuasiExperimentation: Design and Analysis Issues for Field Settings Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1979  13  M.J  Cu ln a n   Ho w Did T h ey Get M y Na m e   A n  Exploratory Investigation of Consumer Attitudes toward Secondary Information Use MIS Quarterly  vol. 17, no. 3, 1993, pp. 341-364   M.J C u l n a n a n d P.K. A r m s t r ong  I n f or m a t i o n  Privacy Concerns, Procedural Fairness and Impersonal Trust: An Empirical Investigation Organization Science vol. 10, no. 1, 1999, pp. 104-115  15   T  D i ne v a n d P  H a r t    I nt e r ne t P r i v a c y Co nc e r ns and Their Antecedents - Measurement Validity and a Regression Model Behavior and Information Technology vol. 23, no. 6, 2004, pp. 413-423  16   T  D i ne v a n d P  H a r t    A n E x t e nd e d P r i v a c y  Calculus Model for E-Commerce Transactions Information Systems Research vol. 17, no. 1, 2006, pp 61-80   G. Dow l ing an d R   S t ael in  A  m odel of  perceived risk and intended risk-handling activity Journal of Consumer Research vol. 21, 1994, pp. 119134   R  H. Du coff e A dv ertis in g  Valu e a n d Advertising on the Web Journal of Advertising Research vol. 36, 1996, pp. 21-35   J B. Ear p, A I. A n to n  L  A i m a n S m it h  an d W.H Stufflebeam, "Examining Internet privacy policies within the context of user privacy values Ieee Transactions on Engineering Management vol. 52, no 2, 2005, pp. 227-237   eMark e ter, UserGen e ra ted Con t ent: W ill W e b 2.0 Pay Its Way? 2006, http://www.eMarketer.com   A  Etzion i The limits of privacy New York Basic Books, 1999   L  F e s t i n g e r A Theory of Cognitive Dissonance  Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 1957   M. F i s h bein a n d I. A j zen   Belief, Attitude Intention, and Behavior: An Introduction to Theory and Research Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1975   M.R. Fu silier a n d W  D. Ho y e r V ariables affecting perceptions of invasion of privacy in a personnel selection situation J. of Applied Psych vol 65, no. 5, 1980, pp. 623-626   D. Gill m o r, T h e R e adW rite Web T e ch n o logy  that Makes We the Media Possible. 2007 http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/wemedia/book/ch02.pdf    C  Goodw i n  P riv acy  R ecogn ition o f a Consumer Right Journal of Public Policy and Marketing vol. 10, no. 1, 1991, pp. 149-166   R  Gros s an d A   A c quis t i I n f orm at ion rev e lat i on  and privacy in online social networks Proceedings of the 2005 ACM workshop on Privacy in the electronic society 2005, Alexandria, VA   S. Kell y   I den tity   a t ri s k  on Facebook   BBC News May 1st 2008 http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/click_online/73 75772.stm   P  Kelv in  A s o cial p s y ch olog ical e x a m in at ion  of privacy British J. of Social Clinical Psych vol. 12 no. 2, 1973, pp. 248-261   A  Kobs a an d J. Sch r eck, "P riv a cy t h roug h  Pseudonymity in User-Adaptive Systems ACM Transactions on Internet Technology vol. 3, 2003, pp 149 183   R  S. L a uf er an d M. W o lf e P riv acy as a C o n c ept and a Social Issue - Multidimensional Developmental Theory Journal of Social Issues vol. 33, no. 3, 1977 pp. 22-42   K.N. Malh otra, S.S. Kim  an d J  Ag ar w al Internet Users' Information Privacy Concerns \(IUIPC The Construct, the Scale, and a Causal Model Information Systems Research vol. 15, no. 4, 2004, pp 336-355   S  T  Marg u lis  O n th e S t atus an d C o n t ribu tio n of  Westin's and Altman's Theories of Privacy Journal of Social Issues vol. 59, no. 2, 2003, pp. 411-429   S T  Marg u lis  P riv acy  as a Social Is s u e an d Behavioral Concept Journal of Social Issues vol. 59 no. 2, 2003, pp. 243-261 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


    R  O. Mas o n   F ou r Eth i cal Is s u e s of t h e Information Age MIS Quarterly vol. 10, no. 1, 1986 pp. 4-12   D. McL ean  Privacy and its invasion Westport Conn.: Praeger, 1995   S  J. Milbe r g  H.J. S m it h, an d S  J. Bu rk e Information privacy: Corporate management and national regulation Organization Science vol. 11, no 1, 2000, pp. 35-57   G.R  Miln e an d M.E B o za T ru s t an d C o n cer n  in Consumers' Perceptions of Marketing Information Management Practices Journal of Interactive Marketing vol. 13, no. 1, 1999, pp. 5-24   G.R  Miln e an d E.M. Gordon   D irect Mail Privacy-Efficiency Trade-Offs Within an Implied Social Contract Framework Journal of Public Policy and Marketing vol. 12, no. 2, 1993, pp. 206-215   C  Moorm an  R  Des p h a n d e, an d G. Z a lt m a n   Factors affecting trust in market research relationships Journal of Marketing vol. 57, no. 1 1993, pp. 81-101   G.J No w a k a n d J. Ph el p s  U n d ers t an di ng  Privacy Concerns: An Assessment of Consumers's Information-Related Knowledge and Beliefs Journal of Direct Marketing vol. 6, no. 4, 1992, pp. 28-39  42  J  C N unna l l y  Psychometric Theory 2nd ed New York: McGraw-Hill, 1978   S. Os k a m p  Attitudes and Opinions 2nd ed Edition, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1991   P.A  Pav l ou In s t i t u t i onbas e d t r u s t i n  interorganizational exchange relationships: the role of online B2B marketplaces on trust formation Journal of Strategic Information Systems vol. 11, no. 3-4, 2002 pp. 215-243   R  M. Perl of f   The Dynamics of Persuasion New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc., 1993   S  Petr on io Boundaries of Privacy: Dialectics of Disclosure Albany, NY.: State University of New York Press, 2002   J Ph elps G. Now a k  and E. F e rrell Priv acy  Concerns and Consumer Willingness to Provide Personal Information Journal of Public Policy and Marketing vol. 19, no. 1, 2000, pp. 27-41   C  D. R aab an d C  J. Ben n e tt T h e dis t ribu tion of  privacy risks: Who needs protection Information Society vol. 14, no. 4, 1998, pp. 263-274   J R o s e n   The unwanted gaze : the destruction of privacy in America New York: Random House, 2000   K.B. Sh eeh an an d G.M Ho y   D im e n s i on s o f  Privacy Concern among Online Consumers Journal of Public Policy and Marketing vol. 19, no. 1, 2000, pp 62-73   H  J Sm i t h   Managing privacy : information technology and corporate America Chapel Hill University of North Carolina Press, 1994   H.J S m it h  J.S. Milberg  an d J.S. Bu rk e Information Privacy: Measuring Individuals' Concerns About Organizational Practices MIS Quarterly vol 20, no. 2, 1996, pp. 167-196   E.F  S t on e Research Methods in Organizational Behavior Scott, Foresman Series in Management and Organizations, ed. Lyman W. Porter, Glenview, IL Scott, Foresman & Company, 1978   E.F. Ston e, G.H. Gu eu ta l, D.G. Gardn e r, an d S McClure, "A Field Experiment Comparing Information-Privacy Values, Beliefs, and Attitudes Across Several Types of Organizations Journal of Applied Psychology vol. 68, no. 3, 1983, pp. 459-468   E.F  S t on e an d D.L  S t o n e P riv a c y i n  Organizations: Theoretical Issues, Research Findings and Protection Mechanisms Research in Personnel and Human Resources Management vol. 8, no. 3 1990, pp. 349-411   J  T a y l or, "T h e role of ri s k i n con s um er behavior Journal of Marketing vol. 38, 1974, pp. 5460   S.K T e f f t  Secrecy, a Cross-Cultural Perspective New York, N.Y.: Human Sciences Press 1980   A  T e ich M.S. Fran k e l R  Kling  an d Y C  L ee Anonymous communication policies for the Internet Results and recommendations of the AAAS conference Information Society vol. 15, no. 2, 1999 pp. 71-77   P  D  T o lch in sky  M. Mc C u dd y  J. A d a m s  D.C   Ganster, R. Woodman, and H.L. Fromkin, "Employee perceptions of invasion of privacy:  A field simulation experiment J. of Applied Psych vol. 66, no. 3, 1981 pp. 308-313 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


    J  W aldo  H. L i n  L  I. M illett, an d e. In c Engaging Privacy and Information Technology in a Digital Age National Academies Press, 2007   P Wan g   I n f orm a t i on-Sy s t e m s S o l u t i ons f or Transborder Data Flow Problems for Multinational Companies International Journal of Information Management vol. 13, no. 1, 1993, pp. 29-40   C  W a rren an d B. L a s l ett, "P riv acy a n d Secrec y   Conceptual Comparison Journal of Social Issues vol 33, no. 3, 1977, pp. 43-51   A  F. Wes tin  Privacy and Freedom New York Atheneum, 1967   A  F. W e stin  S ocial and P o litical Dim e n s ion s o f  Privacy Journal of Social Issues vol. 59, no. 2, 2003 pp. 431-453   H. Xu T h e Ef f e cts of  S e lf-C on stru al a n d Perceived Control on Privacy Concerns Proceedings of Proceedings of the 28th Annual International Conference on Information Systems \(ICIS 2007  Montréal, Canada, 2007   Appendix A. Measurement Items  measured on seven-point, Likert-type scale  Perceived Privacy \(PRIV 1  I feel I have enough privacy when I use these websites 2  I am comfortable with the amount of privacy I have 3  I think my online privacy is preserved when I use these websites  Perceived Information Control \(PCTL 1  I believe I have control over who can get access to my personal information collected by these websites 2  I think I have control over what personal information is released by these websites 3  I believe I have control over how personal information is used by these websites 4  I believe I can control my personal information provided to these websites  Perceived Vulnerability \(VULN 1  In general, it would be risky to give personal information to websites 2  There would be high potential for privacy loss associated with giving personal information to websites 3  Personal information could be inappropriately used by websites 4  Providing websites with my personal information would involve many unexpected problems  Anonymity \(ANYT 1  I believe I can hide my true identity on these websites 2  I believe I can stay anonymous and do everything I want on these websites 3  I can keep my information anonymous on these websites  Secrecy \(SCRT 1  I believe I can conceal some information from these websites when I want to 2  I feel I could keep some of my personal information secret from these websites when I feel uncomfortable providing it to them 3  I believe I could refuse to give my personal information to these websites when I think it is too personal  Information Sensitivity \(IS When visiting web sites that collect information many people find there is some information that they generally feel comfortable providing, some information they feel comfortable providing only under certain conditions, and some information is too personal that they never or rarely feel comfortable providing. Please indicate how much you agree with the following statements 1  I do not feel comfortable with the type of information these websites request from me 2  I feel that these websites gather highly personal information about me 3  The information I provide to these websites is very sensitive to me  Expectation of Information Practices \(EXP 1  In general, online companies should clearly reveal how personal information is collected and used 2  Online companies should allow their customers to correct inaccurate personal information stored in their databases 3  Online companies should prevent unauthorized access to personal information stored in their databases 4  Without their customers consent, online companies should never share customers personal information with other parties  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


  11   C  M a rchant  D. East i n and R Ferguson Upgrading the US Space Shuttle fleet with a New 'Smart Cockpit Proc. Digital Avionics Systems Conference DASC Daytona Beach, FL October 14-18, 2001 4 L. Ad am s, K. Ch ao M. Feh r in g e r C Miller P Murray, \223Challenges in Implementing Commercial NonVolatile Memory in Spacecraf t Solid State Recorders,\224 Proc. Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium  Arlington, VA, November 15, 2000  Space Environm ent Inform ation System  SPENVIS\a.be   R  Koga S. C r ai n, J. George, S. LaLum ondi ere, K Crawford, P. Yu, and V. Tran, \223Variability in Measured SEE Sensitivity Associated with Design and Fabrication Iterations\224  IEEE NSREC REDW 2003   B G. Henson, P.T. M c Donal d and W J St apor 223SDRAM Space Radiation Effects Measurements and Analysis\224  IEEE NSREC REDW 1999   Nat i onal Geophy si cal Dat a Cent er \(NGDC   Nat i onal Oceanographi c and At m o spheri c Administration \(NOAA eather Predictions SPE.txt   Sol a r and Hel i o spheri c Observat ory    I Troxel M Fehri nger, and M C h enowet h 223Achieving Multipurpose Space Imaging with the ARTEMIS Reconfigurable Payload Processor,\224 Proc Aerospace Conference Big Sky, MT, March 1-8, 2008   Ian Troxel Paul  M u rray, and Dave Jungkind Achieving Fault-Tolerant Spaceborne Computing with Commercial Components Proc. Workshop on FaultTolerant Spaceborne Computing Employing New Technologies Sandia National Labs, Albuquerque, NM May 28-30, 2008   C Poi v ey G. Gee, J. B a rt h, K LaB e l  and H Safren, \223Lessons Learned from Radiation Induced Effects on Solid State Recorders \(SSR\ories\224 Draft 12 2002   Sam s ung KM 44V16000 seri es dat a sheet    Sam s ung KM 44S32030 seri es dat a sheet   


  12  


REFERENCES 1 Steinberg A 2000 Data Fusion System Engineering International Society of Information Fusion 2]Klein L 1999 Sensor and Data Fusion Concepts and Applications 2nd ed SPIE Optical Engineering Press Bellingham WA 3]Gruber T 1993 A Translation Approach to Portable Ontologies Knowledge Acquisition 5\(2 199-220 4]Boury-Brisset A 2003 Ontology-based Approach for Information Fusion International Society of Information Fusion 5 Martins J and Pinto H 2004 Ontologies How can they be built Knowledge and Information Systems Springer-Verlag London 14 de Weck 0 and Simchi-Levi D 2006 HaughtonMars Project Expedition 2005 Interplanetary Supply Chain Management and Logistics Architectures MITINASA Exploration Systems Mission Directorate and Research  Technology Program NASA/TP-2006214196 15 Kobayashi K Munekata F and Watanabe K 1994 Accurate navigation via differential GPS and vehicle local sensors in Proc IEEE Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 9-16 16 Mirabadi A Mort N and Schmid F 1996 Application of sensor fusion to railway systems in Proc IEEE/SICE/RSJ Int Conf Multi sensor Fusion Integration Intell Syst pp 185-192 17 Luo R Chih-Chen Y and Su K 2002 Multi-sensor Fusion and Integration Approaches and Future Research Directions IEEE Sensors Journal Vol 2 No 2 pp 102119 6 Van Heist G Schreiber A and Wielinga B 1997 Using explicit ontologies in KBS development Int J Hum Computer Stud 46\(2/3 pp 183-292 7 Guarino N 1998 Formal ontology and information systems In Guarino N ed Formal ontology in information systems IOS Press Amsterdam pp.3-15 8 Wald L 1999 Some Terms of Reference in Data Fusion IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing Vol 37 No 3 9 Waltz E and Llinas J 1990 Multi sensor Data Fusion Artech House Norwood MIA 10 Bowman C 2004 The Dual Node Network DNN Data Fusion  Resource Management DF&RM Architecture AIAA Intelligent Systems Conference Chicago 11 Hall D and Llinas J 1997 An Introduction to Multisensor Data Fusion IEEE Proceedings Vol 85 No 1 12 Russell S and P Norvig 2003 Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach 2nd ed Pearson Education Inc New Jersey 13 Lin G et al 2005 Transforming the military through sense and respond IBM Business Consulting Services White Paper IBM Global Services Somers NY BIOGRAPHY Atif Mirza is a Senior Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton He specializes in corporate strategy and operations advisory for clients in the Global Aerospace and Defense Practice Prior to joining Booz Allen Mr Mirza was a graduate student at MIT where he was a System Design and Management Fellow in the Engineering Systems Division He holds a joint SM degree in Engineering and Management from MIT/Sloan and a BEng with Honors in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Edinburgh Scotland 13 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


