In 
Abstract 
Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Electrical Machines Paper ID 1231 A New Modelling OfnC Machines Taking Into Account Commutation Effects Aurelien VAUQUELIN1.2 Jean-Paul VILAIN1 Stephane VIVIER 1 Nicolas LABBE2 Benoit DUPEUX 1 University of Technology of Compiegne Laboratory of Electromechanics of Compiegne BP20529 60205 Compiegne France 2 Valeo Equipement Electrique Moteur BP 71 38291 Saint-Quentin-Fallavier Cedex France e-mail aurelien.vauquelin@utc.fr 
some specific manufactured electromechanical applications power electronic converters must 
avoided due to hostile environment In such a context stand-alone DC machines are good candidates because of their high reliability and low cost However the mechanical commutation is a big problem in this kind of machine especiaHy in high current and low voltage applications Losses due to arching contacts can be significant The authors present an original technique to take into 
be 
account every electrical aspect of brushes contacts mechanical sliding contact and arching contact The aim of this study is to determine currents and voltages of conductors during commutation in order to reduce significantly losses due to sliding contact These evolutions are very important data for Finite Element Analysis too Keywords DC machines Commutation Modelling Technique Brushes Arching Contact 
INlRODUCTJON This paper deals with DC motors modelling taking into account commutation aspects Indeed 
I 
the particular behaviour of sliding contacts between brushes and commutator can strongly influence DC motor characteristics such as output mechanical power brushes life commutator temperature and durability of machines  Nowadays Finite Element FE Analysis is commonly used in order to optimize electrical drives The aim of this numerical approach is to find optimal parameters geometric dimensions magnetic characteristics   in order to reach performances defined in a specification sheet Contrary to synchronous machines with sinusoidal 
current supply it is hard to define current distribution in DC machines taking into account commutation This repartition is a compulsory data for FE Analysis Moreover it is difficult to define experimentally this repartition especially in high currents and low voltages applications where commutation has significant effects In the following paper we consider that there is a contact between brush and segment when electrical current circulates between then This contact can be mechanical or arching contact This paper demonstrates 
with a simple algorithm how the sliding contacts between brushes and commutator can 978-1-4244-1736-0/08/$25.00 2512008 IEEE influence the current distribution in the armature windings of DC motors Voltage drops due to mechanical sliding contacts or arching contacts will be taken into account Moreover this algorithm gives us the full distribution of current in the conductors of the rotor for a given number of brushes and a specific configuration around the commutator Furthermore this type of algorithm 
combined with a FE software allows more faithful simulations in order to determine an optimal solution which minimises the commutation losses in brushes and by this way increases the durability of DC machines II THE MODELING PROCESS Fig 1 Developed diagram for simple lap and simple wave winding In any DC motor the rotor is made of a specific periodic winding which can be simple multiple lap or wave winding see Fig 1 A section is 
the elementary part of wire connected between two commutator segments For each rotation angle this closed topology of Ns sections is modified by the different connections made by the brushes These connections can be mechanical sliding contacts or electrical arching contacts Thus a specific brush has two main functions first transmit electrical energy to rotating parts and secondly bypass two or more consecutive commutator segments in order to commutate current into considered sections 


A A  U g Usee Isec Esec I Eg With Rg Rsec Lsec  A Eg A Esec RseJ   j        U g is the vector of the group voltages Ig is the vector of the group currents Eg is the vector of the group back-EMF 2 Rg and Lg are matrices Ne.Ne of group resistances and inductances With this reduced equation system a standard Runge\255 Kutta solver performs the calculation of 2 and gives the current flowing in every group at the next time step 3 Finally a matrix C named inverse transformation matrix is required This matrix has Nc rows and Ns columns and is equal to A except that there is only one I in any rows Considering the next topology this matrix Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Electrical Machines Fig 2 Mechanical and electrical diagram ofa DC machine A typical machine is shown in Fig 2 Every brush contact is bolded This machine has four brushes In the second figure we can see the two different current paths and the different number of sections in commutation under positive and negative brushes For every rotation angle the full topology with Ns unknowns becomes a smaller equivalent topology with Nc unknowns The algorithm is able to classify sections in view of brushes connections and simplify the initial topology with specific matrix formalism Then the Nc equations are solved and electrical characteristics such as currents and voltages of all the sections can be easily computed From the evolution of these variables we can evaluate the quality of the commutation process for a specific machine Moreover the algorithm draws up a balance sheet of all sources of losses in the machine 2 Where Usee is the vector of the section voltages Isec is the vector of the section currents Esec is the vector ofthe section back-EMF R..e and Lsec are square matrices Ns.N s  of section resistances and inductances self and mutual Taking into account the succession of Nc contacts mechanical or arching contacts between brushes and collector the algorithm sorts sections in Nc groups Each group includes sections connected in series between two consecutive contacts Then a matrix A named connection matrix is filled This matrix has Nc rows and Ns columns and is full of 0 except in Aij when section MArnEMATICAL FORMALISM The armature winding of the machine is modelled by the following matrix equation Lsd\267 dIsee dt  RJ Ig LJ dIg dt A Lg belong to group i Especially in this case Aij is equal to 1 This specific matrix helps us to perform the calculation of the initial topology because 1 becomes Where  III  


the distance is negative there is an arching contact and the voltage drop increases exponentially until the arc extinguishment This evolution of the voltage drop is exposed in Fig 5 At every time step the program determines the different connections and computes two vectors These vectors named Vp and Vn respectively for positive and negative brushes include mechanical and arching voltage drops for all the connections When the current of section in commutation reaches conduction current the program extinguishes the arc 4 3.5 3 T_ section in this equation especially when arching contacts If which is the minimum between the brush angle and the segment angle Then the contact angle is constant and decreases until zero Finally it becomes virtually negative until the arc extinction e This evolution is shown in Fig 4 If the contact angle between the brush and the considered segment is positive there is mechanical contact and the voltage drop is small 4 We have to be cautious with regard to equal currents e  increases when the contact angle decreases to reach a maximum situated between 0.2 and I V 1],[2],[3  1.5 0.5 Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Electrical Machines allows us to gather sections together at the next time step with the following equation 225 CanI:act CHARACTERISTIC In order to evaluate voltage drops of any contacts a sliding characteristic has been designed This curve represents for a given brush and a given rotor the evolution of voltage drop as a function of the contact angle defined in Fig 3 between brush and collector segment When a segment is rotating and arrives under a brush the contact angle increases until a maximum   267  Fig 4 Evolution of the Contact Angle between a brush and a segment C 01------11\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267,\267\\267\2671-:\267\267\267\267\267 of the sliding contact vs Contact Angle 11 occur drop  u  f   angle  Fig 5 Evolution of the Voltage   e  2.5 e 225  IV THE SLIDING It CI Fig 3 Schematics of the contact angle between brush and collector segments 3 Ig Isec 2 


sec order to decrease the current in brushes and to enhance commutation quality a configuration with four brushes is studied For industrial applications these new brushes see Fig 8 are placed in such a way that positive and negative supply wires do not cross This mounting arrangement increases compactness of the rear parts of the machine TABLE 2 1 L2 2 3 STUDY i\267\267  267\267\267  r M L  267\267\267\267i---.1.S 0 1-:':0---1:':-S----:20':-----:!25 X 7 lrr 267\267  267\267\267  25 25 In 3  Collector pitcb\(in sloQ 9seg 11.3 0 Angle of a collector segment 9haI 17.20 Angle of a brush 9p 14.4 0 Segment pitch 6 6 will be studied This machine has wave windings The quality of the commutation will be evaluated when the number of brushes goes up from two to four We will evaluate sources of losses for these two configurations The different parameters of this machine are described in Tab 1 Rsec r Id[Ns,Ns With Nseg Ns In the first configuration the winding is commonly supplied by two diametrically spaced brushes s  Ml,l M 2 2 L1 L2 =Ln M1,2 10 j"\267\267\267\267   8,24 Fig 7 Evolution of coefficients for the considered machine If the machine has salient poles on the stator the program can manage the FE software in order to compute coefficients for every position of the rotor VI CASE L M I 2 M For this section the machine geometry shown above Fig 2.S 225   267  0 267::\267':::r:::::::::::::f:::::::::::::1:::::::::::::l O.S    I 225 I 225 I  225 j  267  267r  267j  r    2 i  r  267  267  I  i 0 I 8 267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267i\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\267\\267\267  267\267r\267\267\267\267\267\267  267\267\267\267\267i  267\267\267  267\267\267  267  267\267 267\267\267\267  267\267\267  267  M M 2 3 M 3 4  Np n r is the resistance of one insulated section Id is the identity matrix size Ns 5 For the inductance matrix a FE analysis is needed in order to determine self and mutual inductance coefficients With only one section supplied by a known current source the magnetic flux in each section can be computed and self and mutual inductance coefficients are deduced Geometry of the machine and evolution of coefficient are shown in Fig 6 and 7 This method permits us to determine every coefficient of the first line of the matrix The following lines are deduced by circular permutations as described in 6   3 Number of Pole Pairs Fig 6 Magnetic field path for a typical DC machine 4 3.S;.c.:.:c--....-----.---r    1     2671  MAIN CHARACTERISTICS OF THE MACHINE Symbol Value Description Number of sections Number of collector segments Wp 4 Winding pitch in slot Cp L3 Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Electrical Machines V RESISTIVE AND INDUCTIVE MATRICES COMPUTATION To solve the model it is necessary to know self and mutual inductance and resistive matrices The resistive matrix is simply equal to Where 1 1  


The evolution curves of mechanical sliding and arching contact under positives brushes are shown on Fig 12 and Fig 13 The program gives us the total repartition of the current in the rotor For comparison current curves under three consecutive poles are shown for configuration Fig 8 Position of brushes in the two configumtions The inductor is made of a magnet where the induction along the air gap is deduced by the relation fact more than one third of the total number of conductors can create a resistive torque To solve this problem manufacturer shift brushes of few degrees with respect to the inductors to the detriment of electromagnetic interaction between stator and rotor 2 and configuration 2 see Fig 10 and 11 5 For this kind of machine the topology see Fig 9 comes down to two groups of sections under positive and negative brushes and two groups of section representing current paths Ug N1  1 and UgNl+N2+2 The connection vectors Vp and Vn include mechanical and arching voltage drops At every time step equations of the topology are solved VII RESULTS For each simulation the program gives several curves Fig 10 to 13 From the different averages of these curves we can summary the results see Tab 2 For all sources of losses the proportion of the power supply is mentioned into brackets From these simulations we can conclude that two extra brushes increase mechanical contact losses but decrease 5 significantly 6 arching losses Obviously the total efficiency of the machine is increasing of 6 Bn Br cos\(Np.8 With Br=O.4T i    L 1 _ Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Electrical Machines an ideal motor the current has to commutate from positive values to negative values between inductor poles dash lines In the two graphs we can see easily that the current needs several mechanical degrees to switch During this commutation time conductors produce a antagonistic torque on the rotor which is completely disastrous For this machine with a small number of large slots the commutation phenomenon is very important  I I 1  _--"___  _____________ 1--_.--Fig 9 General topology for considered machines TABLE 2 U gN1 1 i BALANCE SHEET OF THE Two CONFIGURA nONS In In 


2000 J II i l JI II II I  t'\267-r 18111 Proceedings of the 2008 International Conference on Electrical Machines I  f  ICEM 2000 pp.1697-1701 5 M_ Fassenet D_ Chamagne T_ Pera JM Kauffaman L I-c...-\(A 1M A I Machines electriques SAE transactions 1998 vol 107 n06 pp_ 941-947 Fig_ 10_ Evolution of two variables for configumtion I 200 EMF Computation with commutation phenomena effects for PM DC motor      267-\\f\267\267\267\267-\267\267\267-I-\267 I  I I I I Fecbant Modelling of Commutation and Influences of Armature Winding Choice on Peiformances of Permanent Magnet DC Motor  o EMDC 2001 pp_ 692 699 6 M_ Rakotovao P_ Vergine D_ Casaril  Le contact Electrique I I I I I It IX I I I 1 influence of brushes-collector contact in conducted inteiference  1!>111 100 Electrotechnique Industrielle L r-----------------REFERENCES 1 M_ Kostenko Fig_13_ Evolution oflosses for configumtion 2  I i I Kauffaman 267t\267\267  I I II I   l  Jr------I 2000 l---rl---rt---I--,---rfr--J.j---L---i+--f:l---rl---I-r--I-r--;11 Fig_ 12_ Evolution oflosses for configuration 1 2 ed_ tome 1 Mir Moscou 1976 pp.224-255_ 2 G_ Seguier F_ Notelet 2 ed_ Technique et Documentation 1980 pp.35-44_ 3 I I I I I  l I I   r--n.-""\\-------f------..-<--:\\.-=------f----"'"-.c::-\\.:-----AIge  Fig_ 11 Evolution of two variables for configumtion 2 VIn_ CONCLUSION In this paper a new technique of modeling DC machines has been exposed This technique takes into account voltage drops due to mechanical sliding contacts and arching contacts which are very important for low voltage and high current applications_ In this type of machines commutation is bad and takes enough time to create antagonist torque on the rotor The authors present two configurations with two and four brushes and evaluate losses for these machines The next step is to minimize arching losses and enhance commutation quality with a optimal number of brushes and a specific configuration 6 I J I  Piotrovski Tr-\267O Case of dc motors l   MacIIIR1CII AlVa  i   j     Mec:IIonicaI WI II I fl i,l 1  1/1!i 1  I/il  II 1  2!iOO 2CIOO 1\\.1 11 Tome 1 ed Hermes_ 2003 pp 1672 4 M_ Fassenet D_ Cbamagne T_ Pera 


REFERENCES Error Figure 12 The next step in development is to deploy an aircraft based CO2 Laser Sounder which measures the column C02 from an aircraft to the surface 4 SUMMARY Precise satellite observations with adequate temporal and spatial resolution are needed to gain a better understating of the atmospheric C02 distribution and allow improved modeling of the C02 cycle Current estimates indicate that a measurement precision of better than 1 part per million 1 ppm will be needed A breadboard C02 sensor based on erbium fiber amplifiers and diode lasers at 1.57 um has been constructed and tested at NASA GSFC The breadboard leverages telecommunications component technology and uses solely commercial off-the-shelf components A combination of hardware and software techniques are applied in order to reduce the effect of various noise sources and other errors drifts such as etalon fringes and obtain the required longterm precision Comparisons with a C02 measurement standard LICOR C02 H20 gas analyzer show very good agreement over an eight-day period We are currently working on integrating the field deployable instrument with its mobile platform for initial testing at the BAO tower site in Erie Colorado 1 D Crisp et al The Orbiting Carbon Observatory OCO mission Adv Space Res 34 2004 700-709 2 J Mao and S R Kawa Sensitivity studies for spacebased measurement of atmospheric total column carbon dioxide using reflected sunlight Appl Opt 43 2004 914-92 3 P Werle R Miicke F Slemr The Limits of Signal Averaging in Atmospheric Trace-Gas Monitoring by Tunable Diode-Laser Absorption Spectroscopy TDLAS Appl Phys B 57 131-139 1993 4 D T Cassidy and J Reid Atmospheric pressure monitoring of trace gases using tunable diode lasers App Phys B Vol 29 279-285 1982 5 J A Silver and A C Stanton Optical interference fringe reduction in laser absorption experiments Appl Opt 27 1914-1916 1988 6 C R Webster Brewster-plate spoiler a novel method for reducing the amplitude of interference fringes that limit tunable-laser absorption sensitivities J Opt Soc Am B 2 1464-1470 1985 7 D.S Bomse and D.J Kane An adaptive singular value decomposition SVD algorithm for analysis of wavelength modulation spectra Appl Phys B 85 461466 2006 8 H Riris C B Carlisle R E Warren and D E Cooper Signal-to-noise ratio enhancement in frequencymodulation spectrometers by digital signal processing Optics Letters Vol 19 No 2 January 15 1994 9 P.W Werle P Mazzinghi a F D'Amatoa M De Rosa a K Maurer F Slemr Signal processing and calibration procedures for in situ diode-laser absorption spectroscopy Spectrochimica Acta Part A 60 2004 1685-1705 BIOGRAPHY Author biographys unavailable at the time of press The engineering data from the field tests will help guide repackaging of the laser sounding sensor for airborne experiments figure 12 which will demonstrate the needed long term precision and absolute measurement capability from an airborne platform 7 


key parameters for root cause analysis of anomalies This study emphasizes that the defined baseline can be used to characterize a new computer model This will allow us to characterize a new notebook computer regardless of the model and reduce the time for analysis In this study PPA and MD were independently used to identify the similarity of new observations to healthy data PPA performed this analysis in a reduced dimension based on an optimization criterion maximum variance It was also found that PPA can identify the faulty parameters based on the data whereas MD requires an understanding of the system The strength of PPA lies in the ability to decompose the signal and extract additional information not originally available used to identify faults in the system PPA overcomes masking effects when working with highly correlated data The strength of the MD method is that it preserves all the information available because it does not reduce the original dimensionality of the data The drawbacks of using just the MD method are that it cannot be used directly for fault identification and it is susceptible to masking effects With the MD results and our understanding of the system functionality four critical parameters were empirically identified the fan speed and the three temperature components CPU temperature motherboard temperature and videocard temperature In parallel in the PPA approach the principal component space also identified the fan speed as the most dominant and from the residual principal component space three temperature parameters were identified to be dominant mathematically confirming the earlier empirical conclusion The cross-validated result shows that these two algorithms can be used for fault detection and isolation The MD method can be used for quick fault detection at a system level and fault isolation can be made if related fault to MD signatures are available PPA can also be used when system faults are not known and where critical parameters need to be identified ACKNOWLEDGEMENT This work is sponsored by the members of the CALCE Prognostics and Health Management Consortium at the University of Maryland College Park REFERENCES 1 N Vichare P Rodgers V Eveloy and M Pecht Environment and Usage Monitoring of Electronic Products for Health Assessment and Product Design International Journal of Quality Technology and Quantitative Management 2\(4 235-250 2007 2 J Gu N Vichare T Tracy and M Pecht Prognostics Implementation Methods for Electronics 53rd Annual Reliability  Maintainability Symposium RAMS Florida 2007 3 G Zhang C Kwan R Xu N Vichare and M Pecht An Enhanced Prognostic Model for Intermittent Failures in Digital Electronics IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky MT March 2007 4 N Vichare and M Pecht Enabling Electronic Prognostics Using Thermal Data Proceedings of the 12th International Workshop on Thermal Investigation of ICs and Systems Nice Cote d'Azur France 27-29 September 2006 5 N Vichare P Rodgers and M Pecht Methods for Binning and Density Estimation of Load Parameters for Prognostics and Health Management International Journal of Performability Engineering Vol 2 No 2 April 2006 6 A Fraser N Hengartner K Vixie and B Wohlberg Incorporating Invariants in Mahalanobis Distance based Classifiers Application to Face Recognition in International Joint Conference on Neural Networks IJCNN Portland OR USA Jul 2003 7 J Edward Jackson Govind S Mudholkar Control Procedures for Residuals Associated With Principal Component Analysis Technometrics Vol.21 No.3 1979 8 J Liu Khiang-Wee Lim R Srinivasan and X Doan On-Line Process Monitoring and Fault Isolation Using PCA Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE International Symposium on Mediterranean Conference on Control and Automation pp 658 661 2005 9 G Taguchi S Chowdhury and Y Wu The Mahalanobis-Taguchi System New York McGrawHill 2001 10 E B Martin A J Morris and J Zhang Process Performance Monitoring Using Multivariate Statistical Process CSontrol IEE Proc Control Theory Application Vol 143 No.2 March 1996 11 H Chen G Jiang C Ungureanu and K Yoshihira Failure Detection and Localization in Component Based Systems by Online Tracking KDD 2005 12 H Wang Z Song and P Li Fault Detection Behavior and Performance Analysis of Principal Component Analysis Based Process Monitoring Methods American Chemical Society Vol 41 pp 2455 2464 2002 13 H H Yue S.J Qin Reconstruction-Based Fault Identification Using a Combined Index American Chemical Society Vol 40 pp 4403-4414 2001 8 


BIOGRAPHY Sachin Kumar received the B.S degree in Metallurgical Engineering from the Bihar Institute of Technology and the M.Tech degree in Reliability Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur He is currently pursuing the Ph.D degree in Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park His research interests include reliability electronic system prognostics and health and usage monitoring of systems Vasilis Sotiris received the B.S degree in Aerospace Engineering from Rutgers University in New Brunswick New Jersey and the M S degree in Mechanical Engineering from Columbia University in New York He worked as a Systems Engineer for Lockheed Martin Corporation concentrating on software development projects for the Federal Aviation Administration He is currently pursuing the Ph.D degree in Applied Mathematics at the University of Maryland College Park His research interests are in the field of applied statistics and computational mathematics related to diagnostics and prognostics for electronic systems   _ n Acoustics an M.S in Electrical _  in Engineering Mechanics from the g  University of Wisconsin at Madison He is a Professional Engineer an IEEE Fellow and an ASME Fellow He has received the 3M Research Award for electronics packaging the IEEE Award for chairing key Reliability Standards and the IMAPS William D Ashman Memorial Achievement Award for his contributions in electronics reliability analysis He has written over twenty books on electronic products development use and supply chain management He served as chief editor of the IEEE Transactions on Reliability for eight years and on the advisory board of IEEE Spectrum He has been the chief editor for Microelectronics Reliability for over eleven years and an associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technology He is a Chair Professor and the founder of the Center for Advanced Life Cycle Engineering CALCE and the Electronic Products and Systems Consortium at the University of Maryland He has also been leading a research team in the area of prognostics and formed the Prognostics and Health Management Consortium at the University of Maryland He has consulted for over 50 major international electronics companies providing expertise in strategic planning design test prognostics IP and risk assessment of electronic products and systems 9 


Engineering Education Annual Conference & Exposition 2005 3  Chong N., and M. Yamamoto Collaborative Learning Using Wiki and Flexnetdiscuss: a Pilot Study  Proceedings of the fifth IASTED International Conference on Web-based Education Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, Jan 23-25 2006 4  Engeström, Y. Learning by Expanding. OrientaKonsultit Oy, Helsinki, 1987 5  Forte A., and A. Bruckman From Wikipedia to the Classroom: Exploring Online Publication and Learning  Proceedings of the 7 th International Conference on Learning Sciences, Bloomington, Indiana, 2006, pp. 182-188 6  Grierson H., Nicol D., Littlejohn A., and A Wodehouse Structuring and Sharing Information Resources to Support Concept Development and Design Learning  Proceedin gs of the Networked Learning Conference, 2004 7  Gross Davis, B., Tools for Teaching, Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1993 8  Hon A. and W. Chun The Agile Teaching/Learning Methodology and its E-learning Platform Wenyin Liu, Yuanchun Shi, Qing Li \(Eds Advances in Web-Based Learning - ICWL 2004, Third International Conference, Beijing, China, August 8-11, 2004 9  Johnson, R. and D. Johnson An Overview of Cooperative Learning originally published in J. Thousand A. Villa and A. Nevin \(eds\ativity and Collaborative Learning, Brookes Press, Baltimore, 1994 10  Järvinen, E-M Education about and through Technology. In search of More Appropriate Pedagogical Approaches to Technology Education Acta Universitates Ouluensis, E 50. Oulu: Oulun yliopisto, 2001 11  Kim S., Han H., and S. Han The Study on Effective Programming Learning Using Wiki Community Systems Innovative Approaches for Learning and Knowledge Sharing, Springer Berlin, Vol. 4227/2006, pp 646-651 12  Koufman-Frederick, A., Lillie, M., PattisonGordon, L., Watt, D., and R. Carter Electronic Collaboration: A Practical Guide for Educators The LAB at Brown University, 1999 13  Leuf B., and W. Cunningham The Wiki Way Quick Collaboration on the Web Addison-Wesley, 2001 14  Mirijamdotter A., Somerville M. and Holst M An Interactive and Iterativ e Evaluation Approach for Creating Collaborative Learning Environments The Electronic Journal Information Systems Evaluation, Vol. 9 No. 2, 2006 pp. 83-92 15  Murugesan S Understanding Web 2.0 IT Pro July/August 2007 16  Parker K. and Chao J Wiki as a Teaching Tool  Interdisciplinary Journal of Knowledge and Learning Objects. Vol. 3, 2007 17  Patokorpi, E., Tétard F., Qiao F. and N. Sjövall Mobile Learning Objects to Support Constructivist Learning in Learning Objects: Applications, Implications and Future Directions, Koohang A. and K. Harman \(eds 2007 18  Poikela, E. and A.R. Nummenmaa Ongelmaperustainen oppiminen tiedon ja osaamisen tuottamisen strategiana Problem-based learning as a strategy for knowledge building\ Poikela, E. \(ed Ongelmaperustainen pedagogiikka teoriaa ja käytänt Problem-based pedagogy theory and practice\ Tampere Tampere University Press, 2002 19  Reinhold S., and D. Abawi Concepts for Extending Wiki Systems to Supplement Collaborative Learning in Technologies for E-Learning and Digital Entertainment: Proceedings of the First International Conference on Edutainment, Berlin : Springer, 2006, p. 755 767 20  Richardson, W Blogs, Wikis, Podcasts, and Other Powerful Web Tools for Classrooms Sage Publications: California, US; London UK; New Delhi, India 2006 21  Schaffert S., Bischof D., Bürger T., Gruber A Hilzensauer W., and S. Schaffert Learning with Semantic Wikis in First Workshop SemWiki2006 - From Wiki to Semantics, co-located with the 3rd Annual European Semantic Web Conference \(ESWC\ Budva, Montenegro 11th - 14th June, 2006 22  Schwartz L, Clark S., Cossarin M., and J. Rudolph Educational Wikis: Features and Selection Criteria  International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2004 23  Stvilia, B., Twidale, M. B., Smith, L. C., and L Gasser Assessing information quality of a communitybased encyclopedia in: F. Naumann, M. Gertz, S. Mednick Eds.\, Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Quality - ICIQ 2005, Cambridge, MA: MITIQ 2005, pp. 442-454 24  Tétard, F. and E. Patokorpi A Constructivist Approach to Information Systems Teaching Journal of Information Systems Education, 16\(2\05, pp. 167-176 25  Viégas F., Wattenberg M., Kriss J., and F. van Hamn Talk Before You Type: Coordination in Wikipedia  Proceedings of the 40th A nnual Hawaii In ternational Conference on System Sciences, 2007, p. 78 26  Wagner, C. and P. Prasarnphanich, P Innovating Collaborative Content Creation: The Role of Altruism and Wiki Technology Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2007 27  Wang C., and D. Turner D Extending the Wiki Paradigm for Use in the Classroom Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Technology Coding and Computing, 2004, p. 255 28  Wheeler S., Yeomans P. and D. Wheeler D. \(2008 The good, the bad and the wiki: evaluating studentgenerated content for collaborative learning in British Journal of Education Technology, 2008 29  Wiki EduTech Wiki retrieved April 9, 2008 from http://edutechwiki.unige.ch/mediawiki/index.php?title=Wiki oldid=17132   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


