  1 Paragon\222s Experience in Successful Technology Development and Infusion within the SBIR Program Grant A. Anderson Paragon Space Development Corporation 3481 East Michigan Street Tucson, Arizona 85714 520-382-4812 ganderson@ParagonSDC.com Dr. Christine Iacomini Paragon Space Development Corporation 3481 East Michigan Street Tucson, Arizona 85714 520-382-4824 ciacomini@ParagonSDC.com  Abstract\227 Paragon Space Development Corporation Paragon 1,2 has been honored by NASA as a \223Hallmark Success Story\224 due to our ability to incorporate radiator development technology into the Orion Program winning bid by Lockheed Martin. The Paragon Dive System\231 used for contaminated-water diving, currently being manufactured for the Navy, was also named one of the \223Top 
10 Inventions\224 of the year by Popular Science magazine June 2008\oth of these technology development efforts found their root in the Small Business Innovative Research SBIR\ program. Paragon has had an almost unparalleled success in SBIR technology development with a \223win rate\224 of almost 80% and a continuation of Phase I efforts to Phase II for all but one SBIRs through eight years of effort. We attribute this performance to a number of factors: 1\A corporate culture that encourages and awards innovation 2\Efforts to understand the customer\222s ultimate needs and constraints and to incorporate that knowledge into the proposal stage, as well as during the development effort 3\A very structured process of SBIR proposal development including an emphasis on technical objectives and outcomes of each task, 4\Disciplined execution of programs to cost and budget, 5\Strong internal investment and commitment 
to success in higher risk programs, and 6\Rigorous exercise and protection of the garnered SBIR data rights. Each one of these elements are expanded upon and explained in more detail within this paper with clear actions that the reader can take to focus their efforts on the successful development and infusion of technology with an emphasis on the NASA SBIR process and outcomes. In addition, some suggestions will be made as to policies that could be changed by government agencies to improve the process and remove obstacles. These will include timely funding and contract negotiations, agency broadcasting of technology needs and desires, and increased emphasis on demonstrations that will speak directly to the \223Technology Readiness Level\224 T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  B 
ACKGROUND 1  2  E NCOURAGING AND A WARDING I NNOVATION AT P ARAGON 2  3  A LIGNING Y OUR I NNOVATION WITH C USTOMER N EEDS 3  1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1450, Versi on 11, Updated 2009:01:09 
4  P ROPOSING Y OUR I NNOVATION AND A P LAN FOR ITS D EVELOPMENT  4  5  E XECUTION TO B UDGET AND S CHEDULE  5  6  C OMMITMENT AND I NVESTMENT IN H IGH R ISK P ROGRAMS  5  7  
P ROTECTION OF THE SBIR  D ATA R IGHTS  6  8  C OMMENTS ON P ROCESS I MPROVEMENT AND SBIR  L AW  6  9  C ONCLUSIONS  7  R EFERENCES  7  B IOGRAPHIES  8 
  1  B ACKGROUND  Paragon is a woman-owned, small business specializing in life support in extreme environments. Founded in 1993 Paragon has become a leader in Research and Development R&D\ated with next generation life support technology for Space, deve loped a contaminationinsensitive suit for diving now being procured by the Navy and has a prominent position on the Orion Program providing the radiators and the environmental control system tubing, ducting and other plumbing hardware. A major facet of Paragon\222s R&D has been the Small Business Innovation Research \(SBIR\. Paragon has received recognition at the national level by winning the SBIR Tibets Award for Innovation, by being named a \223Hallmark of Success\224 from NASA\222s SBIR Program, and by being named for both one of the \223Top 10 Inventions\224 of the year 
by Popular Science magazine \(June 2008\he top 10 fastest growing engineering firms by Inc.com: Inc magazine  Paragon\222s Win Ratio Paragon\222s SBIR successes have not been isolated to Phase I awards. However, we have shown a capacity for winning Phase I efforts that have set th e platform for further work in Phase II and III efforts. It is our \223conversion rate\224 to Phase II and III that exemplifies Paragon\222s ability to infuse speculated innovations into actual real products, processes or other tangible value. That, after all, is what all businesses have as a goal. Paragon has \(as of this writing record of Phase II proposals tied to Phase I efforts, with our NASA ratio being 80%. The industry in which we work\227 


  2 Aerospace\227has taken notice of this record and hence we were asked to discuss our methods in this paper This introduction would not be complete without mentioning that we have had two SBIRs convert to Phase III \(commercial and government efforts\th at least two more pending. These contracts have current values in excess of $50 million. This is really the proof-in-the-pudding regarding the SBIR efforts of Paragon. The melding of both technical innovation and market success shows a maturity of process and planning for which we have become known in our industry Purpose The purpose of this paper is to provide Paragon\222s perspective on why we have been successful in the pursuit of SBIRs. This may seem foolish \226 to lay bare the processes with which one could compete with Paragon for SBIR funding. However, we have found success is not in knowing what needs to be done, but the execution, and we feel confident that our execution will maintain our leadership And, frankly, the more successful we all are at our work the more future the SBIR program has in this country and that, in the end, is better for us all We hope that readers come away with concrete understanding of steps they can take to utilize SBIRs for their technology development. Paragon has identified six major areas of performance that we feel spell success for SBIR efforts. These are 1  A corporate culture that encourages and awards innovation 2  Efforts to understand the customer\222s ultimate needs and constraints and to incorporate that knowledge into the proposal stage, as well as during the development effort 3  A very structured process of SBIR proposal development including an emphasis on technical objectives and outcomes of each task 4  Disciplined execution of programs to cost and budget 5  Strong internal investment and commitment to success in higher risk programs, and 6  Rigorous exercise and protection of the garnered SBIR data rights We will explain each here and conclude with some thoughts regarding the SBIR program\222s future\227which at the time of this writing is in some jeopardy, but may be known by the time the paper is presented 2  E NCOURAGING AND A WARDING I NNOVATION AT P ARAGON  The first major step that any co mpany needs to take in order to be successful in the SBIR competitive field is to concentrate on the \223I\224 in SBIR. Innovation is the reason for the program and, as many of us who run small businesses know, it is the seedcorn of our success. But saying that you are innovative and demonstrating this attribute are two very different things. In Paragon\222s cas e, we are successful in this critical area first-and-foremost because we encourage our employees to understand the stated problems of our customers and provide incentives for solutions Vetting the SBIR Topics: Ask the Employees When the SBIR topics list is released by an agency, we provide a notice to all technical people within the company provide them with overhead budget, and ask them to point out any topics or problems for which they feel they may have a solution. No one person has a monopoly on innovative thought. We\222ve found that good ideas can come from some unlikely places, or at least sources that were not the first thought of those leading the effort. I think we\222ve all been there; the shop floor technician that suggests a better way, the draftsperson that points out a way to reduce the part count by half, the administrative assistant that \223asks the dumb question\224 that produces the lightbulb over the head Neimann Marcus once said, \223Never underestimate the power of luck, but remember that luck only comes to those that are looking for it.\224 It is im portant to instill that culture of valued thought into your company Allowing for Initial Research to Build a Case Very rarely does the innovation appear \223whole cloth\224 as a full idea. It is important to allow for some time to research and for developing your understanding of the potential innovation and its meaning and application. What many companies do NOT do is provide some overhead funding to allow innovators to flesh out their ideas. This may seem like a large cost, but many states offer R&D tax credits \(as does Arizona where we reside\ \223pre-work\224 that is performed prior to the proposal is legitimate R&D expenditure. As long as there is traceability to R&D dollars and there is a logical conclu sion to the work, such as a technical memo or white paper, it can be eligible for R&D tax credits. This, of course, provides the basis for the 223Significance of the Innovation\224 section of the SBIR proposal Responsibility and Authority The innovator within the company needs to be awarded the opportunity and full support of the company to bring the innovation to fruition. In that regard, the innovator as identified in the beginning of the process should be involved in some capacity with the project. Preferably, if the skills and desires are there, the innovator can be 


  3 assigned as the Principal Investigator \(PI\ Lead PL\for the actual effort. It is important to allow those that produce the idea to be the prime m overs in the effort. In that regard, Paragon has a very well documented and followed process of PI and PL responsibilities and provides support to those tasked with this res ponsibility to allow them to get the job done on time, on budget and within the scope proposed\227with the ability to change direction if needed as we will discuss later 3  A LIGNING Y OUR I NNOVATION WITH C USTOMER N EEDS  Understanding the Customer\222s Technology Needs A successful innovation stems from a thorough understanding of the problem to be solved. Understanding the problem sounds like a basic step, but it is often forgotten in the rush to realize what ma y be seen as a \223cool\224 idea or solution. To fully understand the problem requires not only that you understand your custom er\222s ultimate goals, but also that you understand their current available solutions and the weaknesses of those solutions Remember that your SBIR technical point of contacts TPOCs\will be the first opportunity for the commercialization of your technology, so it is imperative to understand their needs and thoughts on how the technology will ultimately be applied In that regard, talking to potential customers prior to the 223black out\224 period of an SBIR solicitation is key to making sure that you understand their needs. Before their solicitation, the potential TPOCs are more likely to be straight forward with you regarding what technology they HAVE investigated, why they re jected certain options and why they have not been able to solve the problem However, NASA does not allow for a time after technical topic release to interact with the TPOC. Talking to potential TPOCs is key to making sure that you are not forgetting a perceived or known issue in your innovation. This also allows you to present the \223w hat if\224 scenarios associated with the technology innovation and, perhaps, get them excited that there may be a solution in the industry of which they have not heard nor analyzed. Of course, you should be careful not to show your complete hand as there is a tendency to \223share knowledge\224 between TPOCs in any organization and the source/control of that information may be lost in the \223telephone conversation\224 between technologists By discussing existing technology solutions with the customer, you are getting insight into how they think. This is both good and bad. As Arthur C. Clarke once stated 223When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right. When he states that something is impossible, he is very probably wrong.\224 Hence, if you receive the impression that the experts in the technology at th e customer\222s facility are not open to your idea, you have set yourself up to have to convince them otherwise. However, if you are careful, and listen more than you speak, you can often perceive their doubts and problems with their existing solutions. You must then address those problems and solutions and show how your innovation is better Understanding the needs of our customers therefore encompasses many facets of the 223pre-proposal\224 effort of the SBIR process. This process can take months, at best, and often a few years. It is not mandatory; many small start-up firms every year receive SBIR awards, but the probability of a \223hit\224 is low Introduction of Your Ideas Introducing your ideas to the customer is a double edged sword. Your idea may invoke interest, or it may invoke a sense of \223yes, we\222ve already thought of that and rejected it\224 The consequence of the latter is that your carefully prepared proposal may not be given much thought. Therefore, it is important to be humble, be forthright, and listen, listen listen It will go a long way to break down the customer\222s resistance to your ideas by both including them in your thought process and pre-work associated with the technology investigation. The inclusion in your process requires open communication. It also helps you better understand why your idea hasn\222t worked for them in the past \(if this is the root of their resistance\ves you valuable feedback that you may be able address in your proposed approach to applying the innovation Aligning Yourself with the Needs of the Prime Another way to help align your innovation with the needs of a government customer is to work with the large established firms. It may surprise some reading this paper, if you are a small business, to know that the large \223prime\224 contractors such as Raytheon, Boeing, etc. have SBIR offices. Why, you might ask, would a company that in no way qualifies as a small business have an SBIR office Because they are actively looki ng for small businesses that can solve THEIR technical probl ems which, in turn, they can use to enhance their product offering to their government customer. This \223teaming\224 with a prime is encouraged, more so with the Department of Defense DoD\pany insight and connections to the government customer that would otherwise take years to develop. Most of these large companies\222 SBIR offices ar e highly connected to the personnel within the government organizations that will ultimately write the SBIR solicitation technical topics One unique aspect of the SBIR laws is that the IP developed by the small business can be tr ansferred to a large company 


  4 after development and the exclusive, non-compete aspects of the SBIR rights provided by the government are transferable. This is extremely important to remember and will be further discussed later in this paper 4  P ROPOSING Y OUR I NNOVATION AND A P LAN FOR ITS D EVELOPMENT  All of the work in developing your ideas to fully address the customer\222s needs can be futile if 1 well thought out and coherent long-term plan for its development and infusion into a product or process and 2 you don\222t translate that effort into a well-written, coherent and effective proposal Connecting to Your Customer\222s Needs As discussed in the last section, understanding your customer and their needs is key. In the actual proposal, this means making sure you are addressing the solicitation\222s technical content directly and thoroughly. It pays to print out the technical topic description and check off, sentenceby-sentence and, sometimes word-by-word, the technical requirements that are provided. The topic writers have spent their valuable time formulating what they want, so make sure you address it Explaining the Significance As mentioned before, when researching a topic and developing an innovative solution, the research, analysis and writing of a \223white paper\224 regarding the topic and solution is an R&D effort that is often eligible for R&D tax credits. In this effort, a si gnificant area of concentration should be the explanation \(to yourself, but written as if talking to the customer\he benefits of the innovation in both the short term \(such as increasing Technology Readiness Levels for example\he longer term \(such as lower mass to orbit\It is this section in which the technical explanations can be comple x, the systems engineering justifications supporting the calculations of quantifiable benefits should be clear, and the author should sum up in a very clear manner the benefits in a concluding paragraph that will \223stick\224 with the reviewer. This section of the proposal is your one opportunity to ensure that the rest of the proposal is read. If you don\222t convince them in this section, even the best pl an, budget and schedule will not suffice The Phase III Story, Infusion into the End Product Good plans identify customers with either common or synergistic needs as the soliciting agency.  Time is then allotted for business development personnel to follow-up with those other potential customers.  Time and opportunity through such things as customer requirement reviews is also included in the project plan to allot for the project lead to revisit the TPOCs end goal \(i.e. Phase III\In the rush to crank out proposals, it is easy to get caught up in the immediate planning and forget the end goal.  Including targeted infusion planning from the onset better prepares you to succeed at a Phase III Limiting Tasks on Phase I For those of us that have performed SBIRs, we know that the current Phase I limits of $70-100K are highly limiting With Aerospace salaries and normal overhead rates, it becomes very clear very quickly that the funding cannot support any one person full-time. The customers, for the most part, recognize this To address this, we do two things. One, we identify the feasibility issue of the innovati on and focus on that and how solving it will drive a successful Phase II. Two, we have found that a Phase I proposal should not have more than six to seven tasks. Trying to do too much for the limited time and budget is setting yourself up for failure-to-perform Given that, our first task is ALWAYS to set requirements and perform a requirements review with the customer \(we explain why below\ast task is always the overall management of the effort, this leaves four to five tasks that can be customized to the innovation contemplated Using the Objective and Product Template We have found that the customer appreciates a clear and concise statement of each ta sk objective and the outcome To do this, we provide, up front, a table that delineates the objective by task number. We THEN, when explaining each task, repeat the objective a nd provide a clear statement describing the product that will be produced by this task The following two tables show how that manifests itself within the proposal Table 1: An Example of a Task Objective Task Objective Task 3 Produce detail drawings of the bench test apparatus that will be used to test the performance of the widget Table 2: An Example of a Task Summary with Product Information Duration Hours ODCs Product 3 weeks Principle Investigator: 7 Designer: 80 None 7 released drawings, a technical memo explaining critical design parameters Between the initial objective statement \(Table 1\ and the final summary of the effort \(Table 2\, we include a two to four paragraph narrative explan ation of the effort to be 


  5 completed in that task. This allows the reviewer to judge the reasonableness of both the duration and hours allocated The inclusion of the product is a key component. It lets the reviewer know they will have something tangible to show for the effort. It also allows the program management, once the proposal is awarded, to have clear objectives that assist in the management of the program on schedule and budget Allowing for Updates during Development As mentioned previously, Paragon always includes as the first task the establishment of requirements. This may seem redundant to the process as the customer\222s requirements usually are stated clearly in the solicitations. But the solicitation is often written a year before the actual work begins and the customer\222s thinking has often progressed beyond the point at which they were at the time of the solicitation write-up. Hence we have found that having this first chance for the customer to modify their needs, perhaps update you on recent progress or thoughts, and to reaffirm your approach and objectives is highly valuable and key to getting the program off on the right foot The Disciplined Review Process To carry on this theme, the implementation of a disciplined review process throughout the effort is also very important With the small budget and short timeframe, it is easy to go off track to an unrecoverable position quickly. These reviews include the customer at all times and allow for buyin to mid-course corrections and deviations from the plan The SBIR process is, after all, a journey of discovery to some extent and requires some amount of flexibility to address inevitable lessons learned and technical issues The implementation of a disciplined review process requires that expectations for the review are clear. At Paragon, we have exit and entrance criteria reflective of good Systems Engineering practices that are clearly documented. For SBIR programs, these are used as guidance and any 221required\222 documentation is reduced 5  E XECUTION TO B UDGET AND S CHEDULE  As stated previously, a Phas e I SBIR is a fast and lowbudget program. Therefore, it is imperative that the program execute be monitored and course corrections applied immediately upon discovery of any deviations Establishing a Plan and Allowing for Course Corrections To give the PL flexibility, the ultimate strategy is to maintain a constant and up-to-date dialogue with the customer TPOC. The TPOC has tremendous powers to provide relaxation of certain requirements, to redirect the program as needed to very sp ecific issues, and to allow the PL the ability to make informed trade-offs that benefit the program. Hence, communication is the key, and communication of the plan, proposed changes to the plan and other technical difficulties should be a paramount priority of the PL. All reviews at Paragon begin and end with a discussion of the plan and any budget concerns. But for this to work, there must be a plan in place. As the saying goes, \223Maybe the reason thi ngs aren\222t going according to plan is that there never was a plan.\224 As any good PL knows a well-established, communicated and tracked plan is the best insurance against deviations that can spell doom for a program either technically or monetarily Sticking to Scope As technologists, it is highly tempting to \223delve further\224 into technical discoveries and anomalies. If this is integral to meeting objectives, this is warranted, but often the issues can be handled in the Phase II part of the SBIR effort Therefore, diligence must be maintained in resisting the 223while we are at it\224\227the five most expensive words in any project\227impulse that many technical PLs have. The disciplined review process a llows the program to clearly identify issues, discuss what can be done for the budget and schedule, and capture items in writing that can then be addressed in the Phase II proposal. Remember, Phase I is a feasibility exercise. A good TPOC will recognize that not everything can be solved and so the key issues need to be addressed and others left for later Ultimately, the key is to rec ognize that there are gives and takes on a program, and with everyone aware of the goals and working to the same scri pts, the issue of \223creep\224 of scope and costs is mitigated 6  C OMMITMENT AND I NVESTMENT IN H IGH R ISK P ROGRAMS  Very often, due to limitations of budget, the company needs to provide additional resources in parallel with the SBIR effort to truly achieve the technical level of understanding and confidence in the innovation. At Paragon, when we decide to pursue innovative solutions we fully commit the company to working toward that goal. This means adequate internal research and development \(IR&D\s commitments to facilities, test equipment, tools \(software and hardware\raining to achieve those goals. These are overhead, but necessary overh ead that contribute to the success of the program The Limitations of Phase I Budget As stated many times previously, the Phase I budget is limited. We doubt that anyone has ever \223made a profit\224 on an SBIR Phase I. At best, the additional dollars that usually contribute to a profit can be seen as a \223management reserve\224 that can be utilized to handle the inevitable overages in materials and labor costs. Innovation is not something that can be performed to a strict budget. Utilizing the course corrections process, and being realistic and diligent can all be part of risk mitigation strategy, but the 


  6 company must understand and not shy away from the commitments needed to get the job done. The objective of a Phase I is to provide feasibility to the TPOC to the extent that a Phase II is possible, and that goal should never be forgotten Injecting Non-SBIR IR&D Money into the SBIR Some times the company determines during the proposal process that supplemental IR&D money is needed to meet the minimum technical objectives. Make sure that this investment by the company is highlighted in the proposal you can describe it as a task w ith no cost associated stating that it is covered by IR&D\ that the TPOC sees that commitment. Doing so will further show the company commitment to the proposal reviewers If an IR&D element is included, be sure that the product is clear and unfettered by other products within the SBIR This allows the company to patent the product of that task WITHOUT the required government exclusive rights that the SBIR process requires. This may often solidify the company\222s position in the ownership of the SBIR intellectual data and may provide additional leverage in the event of a purchase of the in tellectual property by a third party 7  P ROTECTION OF THE SBIR  D ATA R IGHTS  It is imperative that the company understand the invention disclosure process and the rules of IP that come hand-inhand with the SBIR program. The SBIR program was established with the interests of small business in mind This means that unlike other government programs in which the government OWNS the data and rights, in the SBIR program it is clear that the co mpany owns the rights and the government only gains an exclusive right to use that IP but only in consideration of the small business. This means that the government ALSO has the right \(and obligation by law to provide a sole-source contract to the small business AND, as stated before, this right is transferable to a third party so that a key invention can be sold to a large business for many multiples of the investment\d the sole-source obligations of the government are not superceded. But in order to garner these rights, the company must be diligent in execution of the required disclosures Filling Out the Invention Disclosures By SBIR rules, the company must fill out invention disclosures to the government within one year of the work However, we recommend that you start this process the minute the innovation/invention is deemed viable. It is also advisable to start the patent pr ocess at the same time. There are certain rules of disclosure both in the United States and internationally \(and they are different!\at must be understood. Rather than expound on those here we recommend that all small businesses seek IP legal counsel Ensuring You Know the SBIR Rights Laws Also of importance is to have a good understanding of the rights that SBIRs afford the company. Especially in the event of a Phase III award the company needs to understand that there is a broad interpretation of what is considered Phase III and that th ere are statutory penalties to government contracting officers that can be invoked if the company is ever coerced or ot herwise pressured into giving up those rights. Very often we are called upon to educate the contracting officers within an organization. This can be a painful and difficult job that sometimes requires steadfastness and a little ability to stare down the government agency. Ultimately, if a small business is not treated fairly, the government LAWS require that all parties involved must be identified to Congress. Nothing gets the attention of contracting officers as much as stating that you need to collect names and titles to provide to Congress. This usually get\222s negotiations back on track The Difference of SBIR Rights and the Negotiation of Those Rights You have rights in the Phas e III, and you CAN negotiate those rights to your advantage. Though the SBIR laws give certain rights of ownership of data and IP, this does not mean that the company cannot use the negotiations of that IP as a bargaining tool. In fact, the laws are designed to allow the small business to do so, but on their own terms The government must acknowledge those rights and not coerce the company to give them up involuntarily \(like by threatening no award, or insi sting that the company NOT use their innovation in a product\ but the company is free to then use those rights to gain favorable terms \(with a Prime for example 8  C OMMENTS ON P ROCESS I MPROVEMENT AND SBIR  L AW  This paper would not be complete without some discussion as to issues that arise in the SBIR process that we feel could be improved Timely Funding and Contract Negotiations One of the first issues is the timing of SBIR proposals and awards. In the past, Paragon has experience over eight months between notice of the award and the actual signing of the SBIR Phase II contract. The strains on the small business, especially struggli ng to keep a team together while this process plays out, is excessive. This seems to be an issue unique to NASA, as the Navy has bridge funding capabilities to keep the team together between Phase I and II if it is deemed necessary. A more timely award and funding flow would greatly reduce the strain on the cashflow position of small businesses 


  7 Concurrence of Phase I Report and the Phase II Proposal For all SBIRs, the Phase I effort final report and subsequent Phase II proposal are concurrent. As the time for a Phase I program is short \(six months\ost inevitable that the company is scrambling to comple te the objectives of Phase I while also producing a detailed Phase II proposal. Allowing for two weeks between the end of Phase I \(at which time the report is due\and the due date for the Phase II proposal would greatly reduce stress upon the team, provide for a better final report, and result in a better Phase II proposal Agency Broadcasting of Technology Needs and Desires While the pre-solicitation discussion prior to the release of the technology development needs/topics is usually helpful a more \223as they become available\224 release of technical topics would allow small businesses more time to formulate a better informed response. In NASA\222s case, there is no time between topic release and the blackout period, while the DoD does allow some time for questions and answers Extending this time may be impossible due to the fairness rules of the solicitation, but it should be pursued if at all possible. This would take the form of a \223Request for Information\224 as is now released for large procurements SBIRs and the TRL level of Hardware The SBIR process is meant to allow small companies to pursue innovation to the benefit of the company as well as the United States. In this regard, the relatively low funding level of SBIR Phase I research provides some impediment to the production of hardware.  While it is understood that the government does not want to commit too much funding to an \223unproven\224 product or process, the current low funding levels do not allow for an adequate amount of HARDWARE to prove out the concept.  In this way, the SBIR program as now defined tends to allow for only very basic proofs of concepts and sometimes this may provide inadequate information to justify the commitment of the much-larger Phase II funds.   We feel the program would be much better served to allow for greater Phase I funding as this would allow for better Phase II decisions and ultimately result in a better return for the government and, of course the company SBIR Law:  A Note about Pending Legislation As this paper is being written, there are competing House and Senate bills in the Unite d States Congress that would modify the rules of the SBIR program. While the Senate version would keep the current, highly successful program intact, the House version cont emplates immediate Phase II awards, redefinition of small business to allow for the participation of larger entities through direct investment in the small business and other provisions that would greatly increase the competition to include non-small business entities. When this paper is presented, an update to the outcome of this legislation will be provided 9  C ONCLUSIONS  In conclusion, the SBIR program is a valuable tool to the government to foster innovation. Studies by the National Research Council 1 have confirmed that the resulting value to the American tax payer is high and this program should be continued substantially in its present form. It is the responsibility of the small business involved to provide quality responses to the SBIR program solicitations. The methods discussed in this paper should provide the small business with the guidance so that it can do its part of the work to keep this program highly successful. In that regard the small business should 200  Ensure that the SBIR program process is a longterm commitment of the top management of the company 200  Maintain a commitment to the technical excellence of the products produced for the SBIR and assure they are aligned with the objectives of the customer\(s 200  Establish a clear set of technical objectives and maintain focus on those objectives through a structured proposal format, rigorous review process and dialogue with the customer 200  Communicate clearly and often with the customer through the review process, periodic \(every one to two weeks\munications and whenever it is deemed necessary by the TPOC or PL The Result is Success By following these guidelines, the success of the program is NOT ensured, but it is insured that NOT following this process greatly reduces the chance of both the Government and the company achieving the desired innovative results  R EFERENCES  1 Ch arles W  W essn er, Ed ito r, Co m m ittee o n  Capitalizing on Science, Technology, and Innovation An Assessment of the Small Business Innovation Research Program, National Research Council  


  8 B IOGRAPHIES  Grant Anderson is Vice President Engineering/Chief Engineer and Founder of Paragon Space Development Corporation. He has 23 years of experience in spacecraft systems design, requirements formulation and preliminary and detail hardware design specializing in spacecraft arch itecture, spacecraft systems engineering, life support systems design and analysis establishing and leading technical teams toward welldefined goals and requirements, and maintaining expert teams of engineers and administrative personnel on goals that demonstrate technical excellence. He is formerly the Chief Design Engineer for the International Space Station Solar Arrays when emplo yed by Lockheed Martin Mr. Anderson is affiliated with American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics \(AIAA\ \(Senior Member Deputy Director\, Society of Automotive Engineers \(SAE and former Member, AIAA National Design Engineering Committee on Standards Boards of Advisors. He has a BSME from Stanford University and MS Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University    Dr. Christine Iacomini is Director of Research and Development.  She is currently Principle Investigator on three NASA SBIR Phase 2 contracts. She also served as Project Lead for the SBIR Phase 2 \223Integral Radiators for Next Generation Thermal Control\224, from which Paragon incorporated radiator development technology into the Orion Program winning bid by Lockheed Martin.. Her affiliation with NASA began in 1989 as a cooperative engineering intern at NASA Johnson Space Center, while earning her B.S. in Engineering from Purdue. She has a M.S. in Aerospace Engineering from The University of Texas, applying GPS data to in-space relative positioning and shuttle orbit determination. In 1996, Dr. Iacomini hired on at NASA JSC as an engineer and served as one of the X-38 parafoil Principle Investigators,. In 1999 she left NASA to earn her Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering at the University of Arizona, focusing on thermal sciences  


  9  


maintenance and catching and sanctioning cheaters Moreover, game play and chat in the GU league differ from public server play, in that GU league play emphasizes teamwork and cooperation among players over individual prowess, whereas in public server play, individual differences in skill and the advantages of superflags can result in the appearance of unfair advantage, leading to taunting and complaining. These limitations could be addressed by analyzing a wider range of BZFlag activities and contexts Analysis of chat in other MOGs is also necessary in order to test the claim that chat differs systematically in MMORPGs and FPSs. Although the present study was limited to text chat, in-game voice chat is a growing trend in MOGs. Future research should analyze audio conversations, so as to determine the effects of modality on in-game chatting. Other methods, such as eye tracking, could also be used to investigate empirically how user attention is distributed dynamically across features of game interfaces Finally, the methods used in this study could be extended to non-gaming environments in which chat cooccurs with other media use. This would provide a broader comparative base from which to generalize about chat and chatability in coactive media  8. References  1 C h e r ny L  1999 Conversation and community: Chat in a virtual world Stanford, CA: CSLI 2 Crawf o r d  C. \(1 9 8 4   The art of computer game design  Berkeley, CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill  Du ch en eau t N  M o o r e R  J 2 0 0 4   T h e so cial sid e o f  gaming: A study of interaction patterns in a massively multiplayer online game Proceedings of CSCW 2004 NY ACM  Du ch en eau t  N  Yee N  Nickell E   M o o r e R J  2006\. "Alone together?": exploring the social dynamics of massively multiplayer online games Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 5 H a hs le r, M K o c h S. \(20 0 4  p e r a tio n a nd dis r uptive behaviour - Learning from a multi-player internet gaming community. In P. Kommers, P. Isaias, & M. B. Nunes Eds IADIS International Conference Web Based Communities 2004 pp. 35-42\ Lisbon: IADIS 6 Herrin g S. C  1 9 9 9 a  ter actio n a l co h e ren ce i n CMC  Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 4 1 http://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol4/issue1/herring.html 7 H e rring S. C  1 99 9b T h e rhe t oric a l dy nam i c s of  g e nde r harassment online The Information Society, 15 3\, 151-167 8 H e r r i ng S. C   200 3 D y nam i c topic a n a l y s is o f sy nchronous chat. In New Research for New Media: Innovative Research Methodologies Symposium Working Papers Minneapolis: U Minn School of Journalism and Mass Comm http://ella.slis.indiana.edu/~herring/dta.2003.pdf 9 H e rring S C K u r t z  A  J  20 06 V i s u a liz ing D y na m ic Topic Analysis Proceedings of CHI 06 NY: ACM  1 Ko K-K 19 96   S t ru ct u r al ch aracteristics o f co m p u t ermediated language: A comparative analysis of InterChange discourse Electronic Journal of Communication, 6 3 http://www.cios.org 11 L o je sk i, K S Re illy R  Dom i nic k P  2 00 7 u ltitasking and innovation in virtual teams Proceedings of HICSS-39 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 12  Ma g lio P P   Ca m pbe ll, C. S 2 0 00 T r a d e o ff s in displaying peripheral information Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  New York: ACM 13 Ma n n i n e n T  K u ja np   T  2005 T h e hunt f o r c o llaborative war gaming - CASE: Battlefield 1942 Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research 5 1\ http://www.gamestudies.org/0501/manninen_kujanpaa 14 Ma rk G G udith, D  K l oc k e U  200 8 h e c o s t of  interrupted work: More speed and stress Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems New York: ACM 15 N a rdi, B H a rris  J  2006 ng e r s a nd f r ie nds  Collaborative play in World of Warcraft Proceedings of CSCW 2006 pp. 149-158\ew York: ACM 16 N a rdi, B L y S H a rris   J  20 07 e a r ning c onv e r sations in World of Warcraft Proceedings of HICSS 40 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE 17 O l de nb ur g  R   1 9 89  The great good place: Cafes coffee shops, bookstores, bars, hair salons and other hangouts at the heart of a community NY: Paragon Books 18  P e a J   H a nc oc k  J  T  20 06 A n a n a l y s is of s o cioemotional and task communication in online multiplayer video games Communication Research, 33 1\, 92-109 19  Ste i nk ue hle r  C 2 0 06 M a ssiv e l y  m u ltipla y e r online  videogaming as participation in a discourse Mind, Culture and Activity, 13 1\, 38-52 20 Ste i nk ue hle r C W illia m s D. \(200 6 h e r e e v e r y body knows your \(screen\me: Online games as "third places Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 11 4\://jcmc.indiana.edu/vol11/issue4/steinkuehler.html 21 W i k i pe dia  2 0 0 8  J une 15  Coactive media  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coactive_media 22 W r ig ht, T Boria  E Bre ide nba c h  P. \(20 02 Cre a tive player actions in FPS online video games: Playing Counter-Strike Game Studies: International Journal of Computer Game Research, 2 2\ http://www.game studies.org/0202/wright 23  Ze le nk a u s k a ite A  H e rri ng S. C  2 00 8 T e le v i s i onmediated conversation: Coherence in Italian iTV SMS chat Proceedings of HICSS 41 Los Alamitos, CA: IEEE Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


12 R Krishnapuram D Casasent Determination of threedimensional object location and orientation from Range Image IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 11\(11 1158 1167 November 1989 13 R Craig I Gravseth R P Earhart J Bladt S Barmhill L Ruppert C Centamore Processing 3D flash LADAR point-clouds in real-time for flight applications Proc SPIE 2007 Vol 6555 BIOGRAPHY Stphane Ruel is a project manager at Neptec Design Group in Ottawa Canada He currently leads development of novel 3D computer vision algorithms and sensor software for space applications Previously he served as an operations engineer on several Space Vision System SVS Space Shuttle missions He has a B.Sc in Computer Engineering and M.Sc in Aerospace Engineering from Laval University He is also alumni of the International Space University SSP in 2004 Tim Luu is a Vision Systems Engineer at Neptec Design Group Ltd At Neptec he develops 3D vision systems for space and defense applications Most of his time is spent developing real-time 3D pose estimation algorithms using sparse data from non-cooperative targets This research is mostly geared toward the field of autonomous rendezvous and docking Filling out his time is also control systems design 2D image registration onto 3D data as well as other 3D visualization techniques Tim received his M.A.Sc from Carleton University in Mechanical Engineering and his BASc from the University of British Columbia in Engineering Physics specializing in Mechanical Engineering 11 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


