  Applying Proven Technologies for a near Term, High Confidence Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle  William J. Rothschild John Frassanito and Associates, Inc 1350 NASA Parkway, Suite 214 Houston, TX  77058 281-333-4840 wjrothschild@yahoo.com Theodore A. Talay John Frassanito and Associates, Inc 1350 NASA Parkway, Suite 214 Houston, TX  77058 281-333-4840 ttalay@cox.net Abstract 227The use of well understood, legacy elements of the Space Shuttle system coul d yield a near-term, highconfidence Heavy Lift Launch Vehicle that offers significant performance, reliability, schedule, risk, cost, and work force transition benefits.  This side-mount ShuttleDerived Vehicle \(SDV\ has major improvements 
o v er p r ev io u s 223Sh u ttle-C\224 co n cep ts d eliv erin g 7 8 m t to  LEO at an estimated recurring cost of $5,000 per kg. This paper provides the latest data and estimates on the configurations, performance, concept of operations reliability and safety, development schedule, risks, costs and work force transition oppor tunities for this optimized side-mount SDV concept. As shown in this paper the SDV is capable of launching large demonstration and initial operational capability Solar Power Satellite missions Nomenclature ATP  Authority to Proceed  ATV   Automated Transfer Vehicle  CEV   Crew Exploration Vehicle  EDS   Earth Departure Stage ET External Tank 
GEO Geosynchronous Orbit ISS   International Space Station JF&A   John Frassanito and Associates LEO Low-Earth orbit LSAM   Lunar Surface Access Module MECO   Main Engine Cutoff MLP   Mobile Launch Platform OMS   Orbit Maneuvering System RCS   Reaction Control System  SDV   Shuttle Derived Vehicle SSME   Space Shuttle Main Engine SRB   Solid Rocket Booster SPS   Solar Power Satellite STS   Space Transportation System 
TLI Trans-Lunar Injection VSE   Vision for Space Exploration  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS   1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  M ISSIONS 3  1    1 978-1-4244-26225/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1405, Versi on 2, Updated 2008:11:01 3  
SDV  C ONFIGURATIONS  4  4  S AFETY   R ELIABILITY  5  5  T RANSITION P LANS AND R ISKS  6  6  D EVELOPMENT AND R ECURRING C OSTS  6  7  S 
OLAR P OWER S ATELLITE M ISSIONS  7  8  S UMMARY  9  R EFERENCES  10  B IOGRAPHY  10  1  I NTRODUCTION  N January 2004, President Bush announced the Vision for Space Exploration to return Americans to the Moon by 2020 as a prelude to the human exploration of Mars.   In late April 2005, the NASA Administrator commissioned 
that a 90-day study be conducted known as the NASA's Exploration Systems Architecture Study \(ESAS, Ref. 1\n the period May - July 2005  A major focus of the study was the launch architecture necessary to support a lunar mission. Recommendations of ESAS included a \2231.5-Launch Architecture\224. A heavy payload launcher \(subsequently called Ares V a Lunar Surface Access Module \(L SAM\attached to a large Earth Departure Stage \(EDS\nto low-Earth orbit.  A smaller payload launcher \(subsequently called Ares I would launch the smaller-mass Crew Exploration Vehicle CEV\into orbit for rendezvous with the EDS+LSAM Following docking the EDS stage would perform the necessary trans-lunar injecti on \(TLI\he combined vehicle stack sending the elem ents into lunar space. The Ares I and Ares V designs conti nue to evolve in efforts to 
meet the original lunar mi ssion performance objectives to the degree that they are near ly all-new designs, retaining little of the Shuttle-derived heritage recommended in the ESAS study or as authorized by Congress in 2005.  Such all-new designs can reasonably be expected to follow lengthy and costly development processes  Other launch vehicle options were examined in the ESAS study.  One of these was a Shuttle-Derived Vehicle based on \223Shuttle C\224 concepts that were studied extensively in the 1980's at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center \(Ref 2\.  In the Shuttle-C approach \(Fig. 1\, the reusable Shuttle Orbiter is replaced by an e xpendable cargo carrier with an attached SSME and orbit maneuver propulsion package The NASA Marshall Space Flight Center studies had I 


  2 progressed to the point in the 1980s that a mockup was built of the cargo/propulsion element.  Payloads to low-Earth orbit of up to 60 mt were examined.  However, the approach fell out of favor because of budgetary pressures at the time A survey of the ESAS Fina l Report indicates that the only side-mount SDVs desc ribed were of this "Shuttle-C" variety where the entire cargo carrier is placed into orbit by the SSME main propulsion \226 in e ssence flying a Shuttle-type mission with the Orbiter replaced by an expendable cargo carrier  Since before the President\222s Vision for Space Exploration was announced, John Frassanito & Associates Inc. \(JF&A\udying launch concepts for Earthto-orbit heavy-lift missions that make extensive use of present Space Shuttle elements JF&A participated with the Industry Team, in collaboration with NASA, which was formed in 2004 to study VSE implementation.  The team examined several concepts including an updated version of the Shuttle-C called Concept B \(see Fig. 2\ that could deliver 68 mt to LEO, an improvement over Shuttle-C Ref. 3\udy, by comparison, used a similar configuration that could deliver 66 mt to the same circular low-Earth orbit  Subsequent to Industry Team efforts, however, JF&A in 2006 re-examined the Shuttle-C operational approach of orbiting the entire payload carrier and SSME main propulsion.  It was noted that the Ares V stages the Earth Departure Stage suborbitally a nd utilizes that stage in two distinct steps to attain a low-Earth orbit as well as conduct a trans-lunar injection \(TLI\sive burn.  The ESAS report, however, does not depict a similar suborbital stage approach with propulsion recovery module for the SDV as shown in Fig. 3  JF&A has determined that 225 For an SDV, a suborbital staging of the payload carrier, release of the upper stage and payload, followed by a first burn of the upper stage to place the attached payload into orbit significantly improved the payload capability of the system to 78 mt \(12 metric tons larger than that quoted by the ESAS for the same orbit\. This payload improvement permits current reference luna r exploration missions to be conducted using only two SDV launches \(not three as reported by the ESAS  225 Because the SDV configuration is similar to the present STS, the supporting SDV infrastructure will require relatively minor modifications unlike the current Ares systems which require major changes to, scrapping of, and new builds of supporting infrastructure \(see Fig. 4  Figure 1.  Example of Shuttle-C Configuration \(Ref. 2  Figure 2.  Industry/NASA Team Concept B Shuttle Derived Vehicle \(Ref. 3   Figure 3.  Sub-orbital Staging Shuttle-Derived Vehicle with Recoverabl e Propulsion/Avionics Module  Figure 4.  Examples of Ground Infrastructure Changes for Ares and SDV Launch Systems  


  3 2  M ISSIONS  Many missions are possible using the SDV described in this paper. Human lunar and ISS logistics design reference missions helped define the configuration described. This paper also provides additional data on conceptual Solar Power Satellite design missions  A. Human Lunar Missions \226 Design Reference Mission 1 One possible human lunar exploration mission scenario uses two nearly identical SDVs. Figure 5 shows the configurations that launch a Crew Exploration Vehicle and a Lunar Surface Access Module into low-Earth orbit  The scenario utilizes Earth-orbit rendezvous and docking and a series-burn of the two delivered Earth Departure Stages as shown in Figure 6. A total of 75-mt gross payload could be deliv ered to lunar space following the trans-lunar injection propulsion maneuvers. The JF&A architecture analysis shows th at this SDV option meets the present human lunar mission requirements with existing propulsion system elements \(4-segment SRBs and SSME and with a less costly, early development version of the J2X engine called J-2XD for the Earth Departure Stage EDS\tally-staged propulsion/avionics recovery module provides for the reuse of the three SSME engines avionics, and other high value hardware.   Further, the flight environment in terms of g-loads and dynamic pressures are more benign than for Shuttle, Ares I, and Ares V launches Using the J-2X engine and 5-segment SRBs currently under development for the Ares I launcher, plus running the SSME\222s at 109% \(as certified for the Block II SSMEs presently flying\would increase the SDV payload to nearly 90 mt.  These modest changes could provide 11 mt of payload margin above the baseline SDV configuration, with relatively small increases in the SDV development or recurring operations costs  B. ISS Logistics Resupply \226 Design Reference Mission 2 The Space Shuttle has been the primary transportation system for assembly and logistics supply for the International Space Station.  W ith a Shuttle retirement when ISS assembly is complete, a substantial annual logistics shortfall for full ISS operations is expected which will require U.S. purchases of l ogistics resupply capability from other international partners and potential U.S. private services if available in time. The SDV could deliver all annual logistics supplies \(pressurized and unpressurized ISS and all crew launch services in three yearly flights Figure 7 depicts the configurations of the SDV side-mount carriers for logistics only and mixed crew and logistics missions.  The existing dual-engine Centaur stage, the ESA Automated Transfer Vehicle \(ATV Exploration Vehicle \(CEV\tilized for these purposes in this example The Centaur stage and payload are separated suborbitally at Mach 18.9 with the Centaur providing the impulse necessary to achieve a low-Earth orbit. An estimated 45 mt of payload could be mounted forward of the Centaur stage. For logistics flights, the Centaur stage is not only used to achieve a low-Earth orbit, but also to conduct subsequent orbit maneuvers to place the ATV and unpressurized logistics in close enough proximity to ISS for the ATV to maneuver the payload stack to ISS.  An ISS arm secures the unpressurized logistics rack set while the ATV   Figure 7.   SDV Use for ISS Resupply and Crew Exchange   Figure 5.  Side-mount SDV with Lunar LSAM & CEV Payloads Figure 6.  Lunar Exploration Mission Using Two SDV Launches  


  4 decouples itself and docks at the ISS for unloading of pressurized logistics. For mixed crew and logistics flights upon achieving low-Earth orbit, the Orion CEV and the ATV separate and each conducts separate orbital maneuvers, approaches, and dockings to the ISS.  In each case the Centaur stage retains sufficient propellant and restart capability to conduct a dedicated reentry burn maneuver  Essentially each SDV flight takes the place of two or more flights of other smaller launchers \(Ariane V, Ares I Soyuz, Progress, and Commercial Orbital Transportation Services \(COTS\aunch vehicles  C. Large Robotic Lunar Missions The SDV has a capability of sending 30 mt of net payload on a translunar injection trajectory in a single launch in support of large robotic lunar missions.   Also using the ESAS defined Luna r Surface Access Module in a one-way cargo mode, nearly 10 mt of cargo supporting a lunar base development can be landed on the lunar surface  D. Heavy-Lift Exploration Missions In addition to heavy robotic and crewed lunar missions the SDV can support exploration missions to other planets For example, Reference 4 describes an advanced technology NASA manned Mars mission that can be assembled in lowEarth orbit using as few as three 80-mt heavy-lift launches Other options would utilize five or more launches with Earth-orbit assembly.  The SDV provides such a capability to support these large Mars reference missions   E. Solar Power Satellite Development & Deployment Missions The SDVs described in this paper can also provide for the launch of other heavy-lift missions such as large spacebased solar power satellites that can supply power for specific targeted applications on Earth or the Moon Commercial missions of this type can increase the overall flight rate of these SDVs further reducing the costs of exploration missions. The ability to place 30 metric tons of payload into geosynchronous orbit  \(GEO\is nearly five times the capability of the existing Delta IV-Heavy EELV  This paper examines two Solar Power Satellites missions \(1\ent of a 30 mt SPS demonstrator in geosynchronous orbit and, \(2\oyment of an operational SPS for in an Earth-Moon L1 orbit for delivery of 100 kWe of power to a lunar base 3  SDV  C ONFIGURATION  Figure 8 shows the SDV configured for delivery of a large payload to low-Earth orbit. The 4-segment SRBs and External Tank are basically unchanged from current Shuttle versions.  Further analysis is required to determine the extent to which the existing forward and aft struts will require strengthening to carry a heavier carrier/payload static load during EDS stage propellant loading while on the pad.  An ET tank mass increase of one metric ton was allocated for such a possibility. The EDS stage is attached to the keel structure of th e carrier. A dynamic strut strategically placed on the launch pad, is an option for load relief at the aft keel structur e/boat tail interface as the EDS stage is loaded with propellants. After ignition of the SSMEs, load relief is not necessary unless there is an abort shutdown at which point the dynamic strut will dampen the motion of the launch stack as the load is relieved. The STS aft boat tail with three existing SSMEs is reconfigured into a recoverable propulsion/avionics module and includes the removal of unnecessary existing Shuttle elements including the OMS/RCS pods and structures associated with the vertical tail.  This design has been shown to increase cost effectiveness of the system, op timize masses and load paths and recover the high value SSME engines, avionics, and boat tail structures. The propulsion/avionics module is detailed in a later section.  The payload carrier is of a new design 7.5-m in diameter. It is of a strong back design and splits open to expose the payload and EDS for the staging maneuver  Figure 9 shows the general flight profile followed including the separation events that deploys the Earth Departure Stage and payload suborbitally, its subsequent   Figure 9.  SDV Launch Profile \(SPS Demo Payload  Figure 8.  SDV Configuration for Launch of Large Payloads \(SPS Demonstrator 


  5 burn to the initial orbit, and the separation for entry of the recoverable propulsion/avionics module  Table I provides the overall SDV mass breakdown in this case for delivery of a demonstration Solar Power Satellite to geosynchronous orbit. A typical Space Shuttle  launch mass is about 4.52 Mlb or about 300 klb less than this configuration  SDV Propulsion/Avionics Module Analysis of the use of a recoverable propulsion/avionics module was conducted to provide a means to save high value assets following launch of the SDV \226 namely the three SSME engine systems a nd SDV avionics.  Because the staging point of the SSME propulsion is around Mach 17-19, the module will reenter and land in the Atlantic Ocean. Tests of a recovery system for a single SSME engine have been conducted in the past \(Fig. 10\ncluding hot firing of the SSME after recovery \(Ref. 5\These tests and previous work on engine recovery modules were used to define a propulsion/avionics module concept shown in Figure 11. The concept uses five movable drag flaps that stabilize the module during entry and also provide a degree of control on entry-loads Final descent is on three 95-ft main parachutes.  Landing rockets reduced impact loads \(similar to the methodology used by the Russians in landing their Soyuz manned spacecraft\and avionics from salt water following an ocean la nding, a spray shield is deployed before landing and then cinched to cover the engine bells. After landing flotation bags are deployed to maintain an upright float position in sea wave conditions until recovery is accomplished. The use of a recoverable propulsion/avionics module results in an estimated net cost savings per flight of $150 M.  The landing site is in the Atlantic Ocean approximately 1,100 nmi from the launch site.   An ocean-going recovery vessel would be stationed in a position to rapidly recover the landed module and return it to the Kennedy Space Center la unch site for processing and reuse 4  S AFETY   R ELIABILITY  The SDV described is based on elements of the Space Shuttle that have over 20 years of actual flight experience The 4-segment Solid Rocket Boosters have been used in flight 246 times with one major failure Challenger  SSME engines have been used 369 times with no major failures \(several safe shutdowns\he External Tank flown 123 times with one failure \(foam shedding fatally damaged Columbia The SDV, thus, utilizes the legacy of fully matured, flight-proven systems  The two major failures of th e Space Shuttle have been studied in detail.  In both instances, the failure modes have been isolated and fixes inco rporated. With each flight improvements in reliability and flight safety have been incorporated.  For example, since the Challenger accident in 1986, the SRBs have incorporated new joint designs and heaters.  The Space Shuttle Main Engines have been  Figure 11. Concept for SDV Recoverable Pro p ulsion/Avionics Module Figure 10.  SSME Module Recovery Tests \(Ref. 5 Table 1 SDV Mass Summary SPS Demonstration Mission  SDV w/SPS Demo Mass, lbm Mass, kg Payload - SPS Demo w/Electric Sta g e 106,340 48,227 Carrier/Prop + EDS 471,579 213,868 Payload Carrier 45,116 20,461 Prop/Avionics Module 58,711 26,626 Aft payload adapter 1,725 782 EDS stage 366,027 165,999 EDS usable propellant 326,254 147,961 EDS inert 39,773 18,038 External tank 1,664,095 754,692 ET empty 60,700 27,528 Residuals 13,611 6,173 Usable Propellant 1,589,784 720,990 SRB Gross 2,596,932 1,177,747 SRB Separation 385,227 174,706 SRB Usable Propellant 2,211,705 1,003,041 Total Liftoff 4,838,946 2,194,533 


  6 improved with enlarged main combustion chambers and more robust high-pressure pumps that reduce temperatures and pressure throughout the engine, thereby adding safety margin.  Since the Columbia accident in 2003, more than 5,000 hardware components have been evaluated to ensure that the current operational environment is within the original certification baseline.   Efforts since the Columbia  accident have significantly re duced foam-shedding events from the External Tank with th e most recent Shuttle flights being the cleanest in terms of foam shedding in Shuttle history.  Most importantly, the SDV cargo and crew carriers are resistant to foam shedding damage as they are not covered by the fragile thermal protection systems used by the Orbiter.  Instead, the carri ers are constructed of impact resistant metallic and composite materials.  Further, any foam that is shed will follow trajectories along the carrier\222s longitudinal surfaces producing low-angle glancing impacts as opposed to the Orbiters that have surfaces, such as the wings, that are subject to more direct impacts.  The forwardmounted Orion CEV would also be covered with a boost protective cover during the critical initial phases of ascent and, when combined with the high-thrust abort motors ensures that the crew can qui ckly escape the danger of a failed booster  The SDV will benefit from all previous operational experiences and use proven Shuttle legacy systems.  Thus from the start of flights, the SDV will be more reliable and safer than other designs that exist today only on paper 5  T RANSITION P LAN   R ISKS  This paper has described the use of a near-term SDV as a heavy-lift system for a variety of missions.  To maximize the advantages requires that a smooth transition occur as the Space Shuttle is phased out and the SDV is phased in to support these missions.  The transitions necessary include  1. Minimize the human spaceflight gap \(presently projected as up to 6 years 2 Retain critical work force skills to support VSE 3 Provide logistics support of ISS to eliminate projected shortfalls 4 Support test flights of the lunar elements - CEV and LSAM 5 Support operational lunar missions 6 Support other priority missions including solar power satellites  Figure 12 provides an example transition plan that satisfies the above. In this plan the Shuttle flies an additional five years, until 2015 at two-three flights per year.  These missions, to the International Space Station eliminate projected shortfalls in logistics, crew rotation, and allow full ISS operations including a full science capability In the process, the critical work skills necessary for the Vision for Space Exploration are retained in place. The SDV development is realistically projected to take 66 months from a fully funded Authority to Proceed \(ATP Assuming an ATP in early FY10, this places the first SDV operational cargo flight in 2015. The Orion CEV is scheduled to become available by then and could be ready to fly with crew on SDV in 2015-2016 as a crew/logistics mission to ISS. Because the existing Space Shuttle would continue to fly in this s cenario until 2015, the human space flight gap would be eliminated SDV could deliver a Solar Power Satellite demonstration mission to GEO as early as 2016. Lunar missions could begin using the SDVs in 2017 with heavy robotic landing missions followed by lunar outpost systems deliveries.  This could also include a buildup of a orbital Solar Power Satellite Station lo cated at the Earth-Moon L1 point to beam 100 kW of power directly to a lunar station The first human lunar mission could take place in 2018 or when the Lunar Surface Access Module becomes available  Development of the SDV system by 2015 involves some technical risks. Figure 13 depicts the highest risk items in such a development program Green is relatively low risk while red represents the highest risk.  The risk for SDV is relatively low to moderate as it takes advantage of mature Shuttle systems and proven processes.   No development items are viewed as high risk Early focus on these items in the development schedule will mitigate the overall risk to the SDV development Figure 12. Transition Plan  Figure 13.  Highest Development Risks for SDV 


  7 6  D EVELOPMENT   R ECURRING C OSTS  The development cost to reach the first operational SDV flight vehicle is estimated at $6.9 billion \(fixed year $2008 with a development period of 5.5 years from a fully funded authority to proceed \(ATP The SDV cost estimates are based on the actual historical costs for the same elements used by the Space Shuttle Progr am, with complexity factors applied to modifications to similar Shuttle elements. A Level of Effort factor of 8% for Program Management and 15% for Systems Engineering & Integration has been applied to the basic hardware, software, and facilities cost estimates. Contingency Factors of 15% for DDT&E costs and 10% for recurring costs have been applied to the basic cost estimates to mitigate cost risks  Figure 14 shows the estimated funding profile for the SDV development program.  The largest funding requirement of $1.6 B occurs in the fourth year of development. The primary new developments include the side-mount carrier and the recoverable propulsion/avionics module.   Not included in these launch vehicle development cost estimates is the large upper stage used for heavy-lift lunar and GEO missions, which is estimated to add another 2.5 B to the overall system development cost bringing combined overall costs to $9 4 B.  By comparison, the combined Ares I and Ares V development costs are estimated as over $30 B Recurring costs depend on flight rate.  Figure 15 shows the estimated cost per flight as a function of yearly flight rate up to 12 flights per year.  The Space Shuttle costs are the first curve.  The second curve shows SDV costs based on a program with NASA management and institution costs The third curve for a priva tized SDV is a reflection of streamlined management operations that also minimizes institution and other costs associated with NASA oversight At an SDV flight rate of six missions per year \(two missions to ISS and four flights to support two lunar missions\be as low as 430M for a privatized  SDV  The major cost benefit attained with using SDV is illustrated in Figure 16 by considering the cost per unit payload mass orbited.  The SDV has over 3.5 times the payload capability of the Space Shuttle into a low-Earth orbit. Coupled with avoiding most of the recurring costs associated with the Orbiter, the resulting dollars per pound or dollars per kg\load delivered to orbit by SDV shows a significant advantage compared with the Space Shuttle.  At a flight rate of six per year, launch costs for a privatized SDV could be reduced to approximately $2,200 per pound \(~$5,000/kg\o low-Earth orbit  7  S OLAR P OWER S ATELLITE M ISSIONS  Two Solar Power Satellites missions were examined to underscore the heavy-lift capabilities of the SDV: \(1 deployment of a 30-mt SPS demonstrator in geosynchronous orbit and, \(2\oyment of an operational SPS in an Earth-Moon L1 orbit for delivery of 100 kWe of power to a lunar base  Solar Power Satellite Demonstration Mission  The first SPS demonstration mission could be flown in 2016.  The purposes of the demonstration would be to 1\onstrate the deployment and operations of a prototype SPS at GEO 2\est a Hall-effect thruster upper stage for operations to GEO and cis-lunar space 3\validate the cost and operational utility of the SDV to support large payload deployment to GEO, and 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 123456 Development Year Development Cost, 2008 $M  Figure 14.  SDV Development Costs  Figure 15.  Recurring Costs vs. Flight Rate  Figure 16.  Cost per Pound of Payload vs. Flight Rate 


  8 4\onstrate measurable power delivery to a test rectenna system on the ground  The SDV would launch the Earth Departure Stage, a Hall-effect thruster upper stage, and the Solar Power Satellite demonstration system to a 120 nmi circular orbit as shown previously in Figure 9  Figure 17 shows the operational scenario that starts from this initial orbit that maximizes a Solar Power Satellite mass delivered to geosynchronous orbit. The EDS stage is used not only to attain low-Earth orbit \(SDV suborbital staging but also to attain the 5,900 km circular orbit with two additional propulsion burns of the J-2XD engine. This would be done to quickly move the SPS payload through the main Van Allen belts to minimize SPS power generation systems exposure to potential radiation damage. At that point, the spent EDS is jettisoned, and the high performance transfer stage takes over for the long duration, spiral delivery to the operational orbit at GEO  Hall-effect thrusters are lo w-thrust, but high specific impulse \(2,750 sec\ts that can significantly improve payload performance to GEO compared to chemical propulsion.  Reference 6 describes Busek thruster units that were assumed for this analysis. The tradeoff of low-thrust and high payload yield at GEO is the time needed to reach GEO.  In this case, 180 days was assumed for the spiral out to GEO.  The Hall-effect thrust er stage mass is 12.4 mt that includes 8.4 mt of Xenon propellants.  Argon propellant is a less costly option, but has lower performance. Some of the Hall-effect thrusters are used for GEO station keeping and attitude control.  Approximately 0.5 mt of propellants are reserved for this function The net SPS system delivered is 30.3 mt \(allowing for 15% margin\he EDS stage had been used to chemically de liver the SPS to GEO without use of the Hall-effect thrust er stage, the net SPS payload would have been reduced 42% to 17.4 mt  Figure 18 is a notional concept of a SPS demonstration system.  In this case a solar dynamic power generation system is sized to provide one megawatt of power to the transmitting antenna.  A W-band frequency of 94 Ghz is assumed for transmission to re duce system sizing.  This together with an antenna of 75-m diameter size, reduces beam spread at the Earth.  Neve rtheless, to intercept most of the attenuated transmitted power would require a ground based rectenna array of over five km in diameter.  A test rectenna site would be situated in a United States Southwest desert setting as the frequency selected is prone to atmosphere attenuation effects of rain and water vapor. The purpose of the demonstration mission, however, is to measure power densities within the intercepted beam.  This may be effectively done with rectenna elements arranged along the axes of the beam  Following these tests, the demonstration SPS could be augmented by two additional SDV launches that bring additional solar dynamic power generation modules to GEO and boost the total power generation of the SPS demonstrator to a 40 megawatt limit for the transmitting antenna.   Assuming a 25% efficiency of transmission and conversion, the system would be capable of delivering useful power to fixed military or research station sites under favorable weather conditions.  This would require, for example, a 180-m rectenna array to generate 100 kWe of useful ground power  SDV costs for the first SPS demonstration launch is estimated at $500M per flight assuming four SDV flights per year in 2016 as operated by the private sector Providing the additional power modules in two SDV flights adds $1000M to this transportation total  Solar Power Satellite Station for Lunar Base Power  Figure 19 depicts a concept design of a Solar Power Satellite Station situated in an Earth-Moon L1 Lagrangian point orbit to beam power down to a lunar base.  The SPS station utilizes a bank of solar dynamic power generators that are tied to a laser frequency transmission array.  This produces a much more compact beam width for interception at the lunar base reducing th e size of receiver ground arrays Figure 17. SPS Deployment Scenario   Figure 18.  SPS Demonstrator Notional Concept with Attached Hall-Effect Thruster Stage \(JF&A, Inc 


  9 for minimizing the amount of ground infrastructure to be landed on the Moon  The 2005 ESAS study \(Ref. 1\examined the power needs for a lunar outpost and conducted trades for several options.  The requirements assumed a 25 kWe system initial capability with a target cap ability of 100 kWe.  Two primary infrastructures arch itectures were traded: \(1 2 Photovoltaic \(PV\enerative Fuel Cells \(PV/RFC addition, a Hybrid Power Syst em \(HPS Lunar Radioisotope Power System \(LRPS\ined The ESAS team concluded that a fission nuclear power system offered the best solution of those considered  JF&A conducted a trade study that examined spacebased solar power transmitted to the lunar surface versus lunar-based surface generation systems considered in the ESAS study. The assumptions included a 100 kWe power requirement.  SDV was referenced as the launch system and cargo versions of the Altair LSAM were used for landing lunar base power infrastructur e.  A space-based solar power satellite was considered as placed in Earth-Moon L1 orbit to provide continuous power to a lunar base  Estimates of the development and deployments costs of the respective systems were made.  ESAS development numbers were used for surf ace DDT&E.  SDV flight costs are based on 8 flights per year which include ISS support missions and lunar base buildup and support missions.  At this flight rate, the SDV cost per flight is $400M when operated by the private sector.  Flights with an Altair LSAM for landing power infrastructure at the lunar base at 10 mt per flight adds $150M to the SDV flight costs.  Table II shows the trade results for the power station and flight costs  Overall, the nuclear power option has the lowest overall cost, but poses a development and safety risk.  The Solar Power Satellite option is competitive in cost with the nuclear option and poses less development and safety risks It has an added advantage in being able to selectively beam power to other lunar sites on demand.  The highest cost system is the lunar PV arra y. It is also significantly impacted by the lunar diur nal cycle necessitating large energy storage systems for night time operations  Although a more detailed analysis is required to confirm the best power option, it is clear that the SDV described in this paper can support the deployment of any of these systems examined  8  S UMMARY  The use of well understood, legacy elements of the Space Shuttle system could yield a near-term, highconfidence heavy lift launch vehi cle that offers significant performance, reliability, schedule, risk, cost, and work force transition benefits.  A side-m ount Shuttle-Derived Vehicle SDV\ has been defined that has major improvements over previous \223Shuttle-C\224 concepts. By replacing the Space Shuttle Orb iter with a new cargo carrier using sub-orbital staging, this optimized SDV could deliver up to 78 mt payload to LEO and 30 mt to GEO. This SDV could be developed in 66 months at an estimated cost of 9.4B, including a new, large upper stage. It could provide attractive opportunities for de livering crew plus large logistics payloads to the ISS, support an operationally efficient and cost effective program of lunar and Mars exploration, and offer the potential to support Solar Power Satellite heavy lift launch operations     Figure 19.  Concept for a Solar Power Satellite for Lunar Base Power Table II \226 Lunar Power Trade  Option DDT&E \($B SDV/Landers Flights \($B Total \($B Nuclear 3.00 2/2 1.10 4.10 Lunar PV 2.00 8/8 4.40 6.40 SPS 2.00 4/2 2.70 4.70  


  10 R EFERENCES    NASA, \223NASA\222s Explorations Sy stem s Architecture Study. Final Report\224, NASA-TM-2005-214062. Nov 2005  Martin Marietta Manned Space System s, \223Shuttle-C User\222s Guide\224, May 1989   Rothschild, W  J., Bailey, D. A., Henderson, E. M Crumbly, C., \223Shuttle-Derived Launch Vehicles\222 Capabilities: An Overview\224, Presented at the AIAA 1st Exploration Conference, Orlando, FL, Jan. 30-Feb. 1 2005  Drake, B. G. Editor 223Reference Mission Version 3.0 Addendum to the Human Exploration of Mars:  The Reference Mission of the NASA Mars Exploration Study Team\224, NASA SP-6107-ADD.  June 1998   Delurgio P R., Reinhard, D. J., Taylor, A.P., W e lls, J.A Graves, D. L., \223Recovery System for the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle\224, AIAA Paper 97-1513   Busek Co., http://www.bus ek.com/halleffect.html B IOGRAPHY  William J. Rothschild has 38 years of experience managing advanced aerospace systems design development, test, and analysis projects.  He is currently working as a consultant to NASA.  Bill worked for Boeing for 10 years retiring as the Director of Engineering Operations at the Space Exploration Division in Houston, TX. He led an industry consortium defining launch vehicle concepts derived from the Space Shuttle including side-mount Shuttle deri vatives and concepts that led to  Ares 1 and Ares V launchers for the Constellation program Bill held project management and engineering positions on the Space Shuttle, Orion, Orbital Space Plane, 2nd Generation Reusable Launch Vehicle, commercial Reusable First Stage booster, Air Force Space Maneuver Vehicle Space Rescue Vehicle, and the Liquid Flyback Booster programs. Prior to joining Boeing, Bill worked at Pratt Whitney in West Palm Beach, Fl orida for 7 years. where he served as Senior Project Engineer on advanced rocket engines, space propulsion ar chitectures, and military jet engine development programs.  Bill also served as an officer in the Air Force for 20 years, retiring from active duty as a Lt. Col. His broad range of experience during his military career included ballistic missile and guided weapons development. He has a BS from Penn State, and an MS from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Theodore A. Talay is a senior engineer at John Frassanito Associates, Inc.  Since joining JF&A in 2004, he has authored or coauthored engineering white papers on Shuttle-derived launch and upperstage systems, biconic crew transfer system design, Mars Sortie landing vehicle design and solar power satellite transportation systems and design. He retired from NASA\222s Langley Research Center in 2001 after thirty years of service. At NASA, Dr. Talay worked Mars Viking parachute design, Shuttle II Personnel Launch System PLS\, HL-20 space taxi, and Crew Transfer Vehicle systems. His work at NASA and later at Starcraft Boosters Inc. included small glideback booster design for costeffective small satellite and rapid response missions. He served as Chief of the Vehicle Analysis Branch at NASA Langley before his retirement. He has a BS and MS from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a PhD from Old Dominion University 


  11  


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


