 1  Addressing Common Constraints to Science Data Downlink David Oberhettinger NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA 91109-8099 818-393-0952 davido@jpl.nasa.gov Helenann H. Kwong-Fu NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory 4800 Oak Grove Drive Pasadena, CA 91109-8099 818-354-2107 Helenann.H.Kwong-Fu@jpl.nasa.gov Abstract 227Science data is the sole or principal product of spaceflight missions funded by the NASA Science Mission Directorate. However, post-l aunch resource and technical constraints largely external to the project may limit 
continuous achievement of the expected science data downlink volume. This paper provides two examples of how flight projects may exploit the flexibility of the end-toend mission data system to compensate for fluctuations in downlink supply and demand The major downlink resource constraint is the finite supply of, and the very high demand for, the available Deep Space Network \(DSN\s after subtracting scheduled and unscheduled DSN downtime. Given their minimal ability to mitigate DSN resource limitations, flight projects must consider mission operations improvements that may help to achieve Level 1 \(i.e., mission success\quirements Technical constraints to ach ieving the desired downlink include factors that cause data volumes to vary on a daily 
basis. For example, the difference between the predicted versus achieved data volume returned by the Mars Exploration Rover \(MER\elay link impacted the daily planning of rover driving and science data collection. This problem can be alleviated by flight project action to refine the operations and science data return planning process 
12  T ABLE O F C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  R ESOURCE C ONSTRAINTS S 
TEMMING F ROM F IXED DSN  D OWNLINK A SSETS 2  3  A DDRESSING D OWNLINK R ESOURCE C ONSTRAINTS 3  4  T ECHNICAL C ONSTRAINTS R ELATING T O D OWNLINK V OLUME P REDICTABILITY 
4  5  A LLEVIATING C ONSTRAINTS T O S CIENCE D ATA D OWNLINK 5  6  C ONCLUSIONS 6  R EFERENCES 6    1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1034, Vers 
ion 4, Updated 2008:12:9 B IOGRAPHY  7  1  I NTRODUCTION  Science data is the sole product of spaceflight missions funded by the NASA Scien ce Mission Directorate\227or a principal product for projects th at also seek to demonstrate new technology. Due to this emphasis, NASA flight projects have generally been very successful in meeting their Level 1 mission requirements for science data return. Galileo\222s primary mission of scientific exploration was followed by 3 extended missions, and Mars Exploration Rover\222s 90 days of planned Mars surface operations has been extended into 
its fourth year. Such spacecraft longevity and science return exceeding expectations are attained by rigorous design and test programs that produce a robust flight system, including adequate onboard telecommunications assets Although the design of robo tic spacecraft often features redundant transmitters, antennas, and other telecommunications components, the radio frequency \(RF output power is limited by spacecraft power considerations The X-band transmitter aboard the MER rover sends a downlink signal direct from the Martian surface to Earth with an output power of only 17 watts. \(In comparison, a handheld walkie-talkie has an output power of up to 5 watts.\ compensate for the low RF output power of spacecraft, NASA built the Deep Space Network-- a globe 
circling network of very large and sensitive ground based antennas. Also, Mars orbiting spacecraft can provide relay services for Mars rovers engaged in surface missions Without these dedicated assets, the science data return from NASA missions would be severely reduced, and telemetry of high resolution images would likely be impractical Over the course of spacecraft development, a project works to retire technical risks and assure fault tolerance to the extent permitted by available project resources. For example, robust design assured that downlink for the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter \(MRO\ was not disabled in August 2006 by the stuck Waveguide Transfer Switch [1   However, the post-launch reso urce and technical constraints 


  2 that impact flight projects during the science operations phase of a mission are to a greater extent external to the project, and may limit continuous achievement of downlink targets The end-to-end mission data system has sufficient flexibility for flight projects to compensate for fluctuations in downlink supply and demand. The major downlink resource constraint is the finite supply of, and the very high demand for, the available Deep Space Network \(DSN\sets after scheduled and unscheduled DSN downtime is factored in Although their ability to mitigate DSN resource limitations may be minimal, flight projects can still implement mission operations improvements that may help to achieve Level 1 requirements Technical constraints to ach ieving the desired downlink include factors that cause data volumes to vary on a daily basis. For example, the difference between the predicted versus achieved data volume returned by the Mars Exploration Rover relay link impacts the daily planning of rover driving and science data collection. This problem can be alleviated by flight proj ect action to characterize the problem and to refine the operations and science data return planning process Arguably, NASA is suffering from its very success. The unexpected bonus years of MER operation not only increases competition for the services of DSN and the Mars Orbiters, but they have also created frequency interference coordination problems with pr ojects that expected the MER mission to have concluded when theirs became active\227e.g MRO, Dawn, and Deep Imp act/EPOXI. But NASA has a history of formulating effective operational \223work-arounds\224 to compensate for inevitable shortcomings in the spacecraft and mission design. Proven solutions to science data downlink constraints need to be communicated between projects 2  R ESOURCE C ONSTRAINTS S TEMMING F ROM F IXED DSN  D OWNLINK A SSETS  The plethora of NASA missions transmitting science data to Earth via the NASA Deep Space Network \(DSN challenging the capability of the aging DSN facilities to help fulfill mission requirements. The DSN is a network of very large antennas placed 120 degrees apart around the globe to provide telecommunications li nkage with deep-space \(and certain Earth-orbiting\acecr aft and observatories. One such DSN customer that has addressed this issue is the Spitzer Space Telescope project managed for NASA by the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\pitzer formerly called the Space Infrared Telescope Facility SIRTF\ infrared tele scope that orbits the Sun to return science data on stars galaxies, and planetary discs The Spitzer mission has a typical Level 1 requirement for downlink telemetry of 98 percent of observations \(i.e percentage of planned downlinks\and 99 percent of science data \(i.e., percentage of data generated onboard the spacecraft\r, the glob e-spanning DSN facilities are very complex; DSN anomalies and planned downtime that interrupt communications are not infrequent   Furthermore, Spitzer cannot always utilize the available DSN uptime because 200  Some data is lost by the spacecraft Command and Data Handling \(C&DH\system due to software faults commanding errors, and procedural anomalies 200  DSN linkage is also used to uplink commands to the spacecraft, and a missed telemetry pass could place Spitzer in safe mode and interrupt downlink A Spitzer re c h a r ac terized 330 DSN a nom alies  during normal operations affecting Spitzer downlink over 3 years of Spitzer mission opera tions. Most of the outage times ranged from 1 to 1-1/4 hours. The faults are varied the most common are attributed to Transmitter or Downlink Channel Control Processor fa ilures \(each accounting for 15 percent of the anomalies\rators are not always able to determine the root cause DSN services are likely to rema in fully subscribed for the foreseeable future because 1  DSN resources are strained by the large number of missions competing for fixed DSN assets. Figure 1 depicts the 25 missions utilizing DSN downlink at one point in time-- 17:46 UTC on September 30, 2008 Figure 1 -- DSN/NAV Real Time Tracking Data Monitor  http://rmdc.jpl.nasa.gov/trkmon.html  Figure 1 Acronyms  ACE ADVANCED COMPOSITION EXPLORER C Canberra Ground Station CAS CASSINI 


  3 CHDR CHANDRA CLSTRD CLUSTER IID DAW DAWN DIF DEEP IMPACT G Goldstone Ground Station G TL GEOTAIL I NTG INTEGRAL M Madrid Ground Station MAP MAP MER1 MER-1 MER2 MER-2 MEX MARS EXPRESS MRO MARS RECONNAISSANCE ORBITER MSGR MESSENGER MUSC MUSES-C NHPC NEW HORIZONS PLNG NOZOMI   ROSE ROSETTA SDU STARDUST SOHO SOHO STF SPITZER STRA STERO-A ULS ULYSSES VEX VENUS EXPRESS VGR1 VOYAGER1 VGR2 VOYAGER2 WIND WIND 2  Demand for DSN services is subject to significant peaks. For example, Spitzer has increased its daily DSN usage as the spacecraft has moved farther away from Earth, requiring either larger antennas or more antennas to meet the 2.2 megabit downlink rate Sptizer design\ within a limited DSN scheduled pass 45 minutes window\The number of Mars missions has increased, and they consume more DSN resources than Spitzer because of the very low data rates from Mars. Other spacecraft will sometimes receive priority over Spitzer for DSN services\227 e.g., spacecraft in safe mode\227requiring Spitzer to give up a downlink pass or a portion of a pass. Demand peaks may also occur when spacecraft conduct Entry, Descent, and Landing \(EDL\pacecraft perform intensive operations such as the 90 days of Mars surface operations during Phoenix\222s primary mission  In addition, all operating Mars missions are simultaneously in view of the same DSN complex and may share a single antenna for downlinks, preventing use by other missions 3  NASA faces a major challenge in maintaining and upgrading the 45-year old DSN facilities. The effects of age are manifested in weakened steel and concrete maintenance is labor-intensive. It is more difficult to obtain replacements for DSN components such as the special, high capacity, tran sformers and circuit breakers 3  A DDRESSING D OWNLINK R ESOURCE C ONSTRAINTS  Lacking significant leverage to solve such endemic DSN resource constraints the Spitzer project sought post-launch to mitigate their impact. This was achieved through the following Spitzer mission design optimization measures [4   1  Downlink-by-downlink tracking of predicted data volumes versus actual data volumes and downlink performance 227Data volume predictions are used to extrapolate from the most recent report of Spitzer onboard data storage and to determine \(1\ if the Mass Memory Card \(MMC\e completely filled and 2\ long it will take to clear the onboard data backlog 2  Early analysis of data volumes 227This allows Spitzer to determine when large predicted volumes might compromise single-fault tolerance and how many passes it would take to clear the resulting backlog Spitzer also adjusts the predicted data volumes to more closely match the observed data volumes, an issue discussed in detail in Reference \(3 3  Early deletion of data 227Ground controllers typically command the deletion of science data from on-board storage on the pass following the downlink. The Spitzer project has the ground capability to command deletion of at least a portion of the data one pass earlier than normal\227 during the same pass that the data were downlinked. Spitzer uses this capability to mitigate the effects of large predicted data volumes and during recovery from downlink anomalies. It frees space early, helps to recover to a single-fault tolerant state sooner, and reduces the impact should a second fault occur 4  On-board free-space checking 227Before each science observation is run, the Spitzer spacecraft checks that there is enough free memory space to hold the predicted data volume. This reduces the risk of a skipped science observation due to insufficient memory space resulting from entry into standby mode. Spitzer practice is to reserve two days memory consumption to provide a margin so that engineering data will not overfill on-board storage 5  Using a second ground antenna for backup downlink  227If Spitzer misses a significant portion of a downlink pass, a second ground antenna provides redundant downlink capability and mitigates the risk of filling on-board memory storage. However, opportunities for this mitigation are now limited because the Spitzer downlink margins require use of a 70-meter antenna to meet the 2.2 megabit downlink rate requirement.  The alternative is to array multiple antennas for support 6  Using a second ground antenna for backup uplink 227If Spitzer misses a significant portion of an uplink, a 


  4 second ground antenna can also provide redundant uplink capability and mitigate the risk of filling onboard memory storage. Unlike the downlink example above, this mitigation is usually feasible since Spitzer operations can uplink with a 34-meter antenna. During each pass, Spitzer uplinks commands to delete data from on-board memory that were received during the previous pass. A standard practice employed when the scheduled antenna and its backup antenna cannot support the pass is for a third antenna to be assigned when available  7  Reduction of the downlink bit rate by real-time commanding 227To mitigate the risk of failure of Spitzer\222s assigned antenna DSN is sometimes able to provide a smaller antenna \(3 4 m\ as backup. Should the primary antenna fail, then Spitzer can reduce the downlink data rate to transmit a portion of the planned downlink rather than miss the entire pass 8  Scheduling antenna arrays 227When Spitzer can gain access to arrays of smaller antennas, the project achieves uplink redundancy and a more graceful degradation of downlink resources 9  Making numerous improvements to the Mission Control and Analysis tool used to build sequences to delete on-board data 227Fixing bugs and adding functionality to the ground-based tool have made it easier to operate and more robust Over the 5 years since Spitzer was launched, these measures have reduced the number of times the spacecraft has entered standby mode due to the MMC filling to its limit threshold  Many of these measures were accomplished post-launch via on onboard patch of a global variable, or by blind uplink commanding \(i.e., when no downlink can be detected Flight projects can also mitigate DSN availability and throughput li mitations through spacecraft design measures such as adding onboard data storage to accommodate periods when downlink is not available 4  T ECHNICAL C ONSTRAINTS R ELATING T O D OWNLINK V OLUME P REDICTABILITY  The MER mission provides an example of a technical constraint to meeting the pr oject\222s and the customer\222s downlink expectations. By relaying data to Earth through one of the spacecraft orbiting Mars, the two MER rovers were able to transmit science data at a higher rate than by direct links from the Martian surface to the DSN. However these surface-to-orbiter relay links \(via the UHF frequency band\ are known to be less predictable in total data volume as compared to direct-to-Earth links \(via X-band transmission\data volume received during orbiter overflights has exhibited nominal variations of 75 to 125 percent of the volume predicted, and extremes of 50 to 150 percent of the predicted volume are occasionally experienced. A statistical study of MER data volume variations over 186 overflight fo u nd t h a t 11 o v er fl i ght s  achieved less than 75% of the predicted volume and 78 passes exceeded 125% of predicted. Tactics such as changing a rover\222s heading to facilitate communications after a day of driving and science activities have sometimes been necessary to attain an MER data return goal of 30 megabits per rover per \223sol\224 \(Martian day Because there are multiple c ontributors to relay link variability, it is hard to identify and quantify the factors that contribute to the difference between the predicted and received data volume on a specific overflight. This is true even after engineering analysis of available rover and orbiter telemetered data, leaving mission planners with uncertain expectations as to actual performance. The impact on mission operations has been an inconsistent flow of relay link data during Mars surface operations. This has caused the following problems for the MER science team \(aka Science Operations Working Group 1  When a UHF data relay pass yields a data volume that is less than expected, the science team may lack sufficient information \(i.e., pictures of the rover\222s surroundings\on the current sol\222s drive to safely plan the next sol\222s drive 2  In contrast, larger than anticipated data volumes may represent a lost opportunity for the science team. Had they known, the team would have planned for more activity by rover instruments or higher image resolutions so that the extra telemetry capacity would not have been wasted. In practice, this problem is not significant because the project typically oversubscribes the return data volume for each relay pass such that any additional performance from the relay link is exploited The inability to consistently and accurately predict actual relay pass data volume is not an MER design or operational anomaly, but rather results from anticipated constraints affecting testing, operations, an d other project functions that include 1  The UHF antenna pattern on MER is highly variable and not completely understood, even after extensive preflight mockup tests and post landing data collection 2  The UHF antenna pattern is further modified by local geologic surroundings that change the multipath signal phase and signal power.  Geologic changes variables include proximity to a hill, proximity to a crater proximity to a large rock, and changes in the electromagnetic properties of the underlying soil/rock as the rover changes location 3  Rover tilt impacts antenna pattern. Predicted rover tilt is only known to a few degrees, and the relationship between tilt and antenna gain pattern is not modeled 4  Rover yaw angle is set to one of 20 steps, with the data volume computed based on the gain value for the step 


  5 Thus there is uncertainty in the gain pattern and in the resulting data volume due to this quantization. In addition, the gain pattern may be further changed by deployment or retraction of a rover appendage 5  The Mars orbiter UHF antenna gain pattern is also variable based on the pointing angle to the rover. It may further change with variations in orbiter solar panel orientation 6  One of the larger contributors to differing link performance is the rover not arriving at the expected orientation The Mission Operations Team has limited insight into which of these design and operational factors apply, and the extent to which they apply, on a given relay pass The MER lander project and the Mars orbiter projects elected to use omni-directional UHF antennas mounted in the midst of a crowded science deck. This selection was consistent with the assets available to the rovers for relay but it resulted in highly variable and unpredictable antenna gain patterns, as shown in Figure 2. Due to the same program constraints, testing of the antenna patterns was limited to model mockups which have limited fidelity. Thus much of the UHF link performance variability and uncertainty resulted from engineering and programmatic decisions with known consequences  a\rawing of an MER-like rover with a monopole UHF antenna with a radiation pattern having many lobes and nulls. A \223meter\224 indicating link predictability to an orbiter overhead displays a moderate reading   b\e as Drawing \(a\xcept the MER-like rover is tilted and overhung by a crater lip. The meter reads at the low end of the scale   c\e as Drawing \(b\with tilt and crater, but now a hypothetical future rover sports a high gain, steered UHF antenna that aims a single lobe toward the orbiter. The meter reads at the high end of the scale Figure 2 -- Effect of antenna design on link volume predictability The majority of MER overflights have produced data volumes reasonably close to predictions. UHF data has totaled over 95 percent of the science data returned from the rovers. Use of the Proximity-1 protocol has assured that virtually all data actually returned is error free [6 5  A LLEVIATING C ONSTRAINTS T O S CIENCE D ATA D OWNLINK  Both of the above examples of downlink constraints\227 Spitzer downlink resource limitations and MER downlink volume variability-- are amenable to proactive measures by the flight project. Section 3 lists 9 Spitzer mission design optimization measures that he lped to compensate for DSN outages. If these measures had not been implemented Spitzer would have entered standby mode more frequently The minimum recovery time from standby mode is about 13 hours, provided that DSN coverage is available. When this results in a missed pass, however, recovery requires an additional 4 to 5 hours. If standby is initiated after a pass has begun, acknowledgement of the standby status and  recovery is delayed until the next scheduled pass.  Hence frequent Spitzer entry into standby mode might have significantly reduced the Spitzer mission\222s science product Flight projects planning to use DSN telecommunication services should consider factors that may limit downlink availability and data rates. To mitigate the risk that Level 1 requirements for science data downlink will not be achieved 1  In mission planning, consider feasible post-launch mitigations, including the 9 that were effectively employed by the Spitzer project, and 2  Provide ample and reliable onboard data storage to accommodate periods when do wnlink is not available In the MER example, the diffe rence between the predicted versus achieved data volume returned by the UHF data link has sometimes impacted the daily planning of rover driving 


  6 and science data collection. It is recommended that the flight project develop a data return planning process based on analyses of link performan ce that anticipates and plans for the unpredictable characteristics of UHF omni links Also, the project should be prepared to update the process as a result of subsystem and spacecraft development, test, and flight operations experience.  Data return planning should begin with an estimate or model of the predicted data volume statistics that may feature a mean value and variance that change over time. With an assumption of achieving a data volume level for the sol of one sigma \(1 standard deviation\ less than the predicted volume, prioritize the data return for \(1\ mission operations and \(2\gh priority science data. Lower priority data can then be relegated to any remaining data volume actually achieved during the sol For future mission, flight projects should reassess the predicted data model as the design and test of antennas mission planning tools, and procedures evolve The Mars Phoenix project has responded to the need for improved link performance analysis by developing a Relay Data Engineering \(RDE\he Phoenix spacecraft which landed on Mars in May 2008, the tool reports the actual volume versus the predicted for each Mars orbiter overflight. In response to a query from the MER project, a plot of actual versus predicted data volume \(Figure 3\was generated for all passes during Phoenix\222s first 120 sols  Figure 3 \226 Link performance by orbiter and data rate 6  C ONCLUSIONS  It is an oft expressed axiom that spacecraft design problems are always solvable given a sufficient budget and schedule But additional hardware and greater design complexity do not always provide the best solution, and may not be programmatically feasible The success of NASA deep space missions has proceeded fr om an ability to adapt to resource and technical limitations. The practical measures formulated and implemented by the Spitzer and MER projects and described herein have sufficed to meet Level 1 downlink requirements, and they represent best practices that are applicable to othe r deep space projects using DSN and UHF relays Future work planned includes 1  Obtaining data that can be used to quantitatively verify downlink improvements that accrued to the Spitzer project from the 9 Spitzer mission design optimization measures reported in Section 3 2  Assess the success of MER data return planning process improvements by updating Referenc an d determining whether MER data volume variations have diminished. Review Mars Phoenix downlink volume data using the RDE tool to determine if the Phoenix project has benefitted from these improvements demonstrated on MER R EFERENCES     223MRO W a veguide T r ansfe r Switch Anom a l y,\224 NASA Lesson Learned No. 1796, NASA Engineering Network, May 29, 2007    223NASA s Dee p Space Netw ork: Current Management Structure is Not Conducive to Effectively Matching Resources with Future Requirements,\224 Report No GAO-06-445, U.S. General Accounting Office, May 22, 2006 http://www.gao.gov/htext/d06445.html    223C haract eri zat i on of Spi t zer DS Nrel a t e d Di scre pancy  Reports \(DRs\ and Interr upt/Surprise Anomalies ISAs\Spitzer Project, NAS A/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory, November 29, 2007   M a rc A Sa rrel  and Michael Turmon  223Improved Estimates of Spitzer Space Telescope Data Volumes with Error Bars,\224 AIAA 2008-7696, 2008 AIAA SPACE 2008 Conference & Exposition, September 911 2008   An dr ea G T h o m as, M a rs E x p l orat i o n R o ve r UH F Dat a  Return Statistics, JPL Memorandum No. 337H-06-001 September 21, 2006 https://mars03-lib.jpl.nasa.gov docushare/dsweb/View/Collection-26375  6  J. Taylo r A. Mak o v sk y A  Barb ier i R. Tu ng P Estabrook, and A. Thomas, \223Mars Exploration Rover Telecommunications\224 \(Article 10, Deep Space Communications & Navigation Systems \(DESCANSO Design and Performance Summary Series\ober 2005, p. 73 http://descanso.jpl.nasa.gov/DPSummary MER_ article_    cmp20051028.pdf  A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This research was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 


  7 B IOGRAPHY  David Oberhettinger works for the Chief Engineer of the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL This includes managing the JPL Engineering Standards Office and the JPL Engineering Research Program. Formerly, he managed Northrop Grumman Corp.\222s Spacecraft Engineering Technology Department. Technical work for Northrop Grumman in support of JPL included serving as Risk Manager for the Jovian Icy Moons Orbiter \(JIMO mission study contract and chairing a JPL Failure Review Board. He presently serves as a Vice-Chair of the 2009 Reliability & Maintainability Symposium http://www.rams  org  Helenann Kwong-Fu works for the Office of Safety and Mission Success at the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\. This includes managing JPL flight missions as a Mission Assurance Manager and performing risk management on the following flight projects: SPITZER Telescopes Phoenix-MARS Lander, WISE, and Active Mirror Telescope Formerly, she was a senior scientist at JPL working on R&D in Biomedical Technology on Ultrasound Image Analysis of atherosclerosis disease. She is a recipient of the 2008 exceptional exa mple of the successful transfer of space technology to Earth applications and was honored with induction into the 2008 Space Technology Hall of Fame 


 8  Figure 17. A satellite view of the August 21 field test area. The GPS track of the OASIS boat is shown in red while the aerostat observatio n path \(obtained from the onboard avionics\wn in white  Figure 18. A slanted view of the ocean area where the test was conducted. Th e measured rhodamine concentrations are shown as a vertical “ribbon” along the route taken by the OASIS boat \(as shown in Figs. 16 and 17 8  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper describes a telesupervision architecture for multiple autonomous platforms and its application to the particular problem of the detection of harmful algal blooms Initial work has concentrated on the integration of subsystems developed by the collaborating organizations, in the development of HAB and dye observation systems, and in building an aerial platform to allow observation of the TAOSF system and the OASIS bo ats from the air. In-water tests have demonstrated the viability of the MARTA architecture as instan tiated in TAOSF One of our key next steps is an extended end-to-end test in which multiple OASIS platforms map a rhodamine-dye HAB surrogate under human telesupervision. Over the next year we plan to increase the number of platforms, develop and deploy adaptive sensing algorithms, and continue deploying the TAOSF system in the Chesapeake Bay estuary Because of their in-situ observation capabilities and resolution, as well as their adaptivity, telesupervised autonomous surface vehicles are crucial to the sensor web for Earth science. The MARTA telesupervision architecture underlying TAOSF is broadly applicable to a wide variety of domains beyond HABs, incl uding ecological forecasting water management, carbon management, disaster management, coastal management, homeland security, and planetary exploration A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work was supported by NASA award NNX06AF27G Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”, granted under the Advanced Information Systems Technology program of NASA’s Earth Systems Technology Office ESTO\he TAOSF project is a collaboration among Carnegie Mellon University CMU Flight Center \(GSFC\, NASA Goddard’s Wallops Flight Facility \(WFF\mergent Space Technologies, Inc. \(EST and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\ifornia Institute of Technology. Work on the OASIS platforms is conducted by Emergent Space Technologies, Inc., EG&G, and Zinger Enterprises under award NA03NOS4730220 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA\, U.S. Department of Commerce R EFERENCES    G Po d n ar J. M  D o lan   A. El fes M  B e rge r m a n, H  B Brown, and A. D. Guisewite. "Human Telesupervision of a Fleet of Autonomous Robots for Safe and Efficient Space Exploration". Proceedings of the 1st Annual Conference on Human-Robot Interaction \(HRI-2006\e City, UT USA, March 2-4, 2006   E Halbe r stam L. Na v a rr oSerm ent, R. Cone scu   S Mau, G. Podnar, A. D. Guisewite, H. B. Brown, A. Elfes, J M. Dolan, and M. Bergerman. "A Robot Supervision Architecture for Safe and E fficient Space Exploration and Operation." Proceedings of the 10th Biennial International Conference on Engineering, Construction, and Operations in Challenging Environments, Houston, TX, USA, March 5-8 2006    A. El fes J. M   Dola n G Po d n ar S M a u, a n d M   Bergerman. "Safe and Effici ent Robotic Space Exploration with Tele-Supervised Autonomous Robots." Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium 2006, Stanford, CA, USA March 27-29, 2006   G Po d n ar J. D o lan  A  Elfes, a nd M  Berge r m a n  Human Telesupervision of Very Heterogeneous Planetary Robot Teams”. In Proceedi ngs of the AIAA Space 2007 Conference, Long Beach, CA, 18 – 20 September 2007 


 9  5 Wood s Ho le Ocean ographic In stitu tion    http://www.whoi.edu  6 and  Wild life Research  In stitu te http://research.myfwc.com    No rth w est Fishe r ies Sci e nce Ce nter Harm ful Al ga l Blooms Program http://www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/hab/index.html  8 ing Harm fu l Alg a l Blo o m s in th e Ch esap eak e Bay   http://coastwatch.noaa.gov/cbay_hab  9 a l Transform a tio n fo r Sp atio tem p o r al  Data Mining", Journal of Knowledge and Information Systems \(KAIS\ol. 11, No. 5, 2007, Springer  1 J. M   D o l a n G Po d n ar  S. St a n cl i ff E  Li n J H o sl er T. Ames, J. Moisan, T. Moisan, J. Higinbotham, and A Elfes. “Harmful Algal Bloo m Characterization via the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. Proceedings of the 2007 NASA Science and Technology Conference NSTC-07\ College Park, MD, June 19 – 21 2007  1 Tec hni cal  Dat a S h eet   http://www.coleparmer.com/ca talog/Msds/msdbes002.pdf  1 A. El fes J. Dol a n an d G. P o d n ar T he Tel e su per v i s ed Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. In Proceedings of the Conference on Atmospheric and Environmental Remote Sensing Data Processing and Utilization III: Readiness for GEOSS, 2007 SPIE Symposium on Optical Engineering and Applications. San Diego, CA, 26 – 30 August 2007  1 A El fes  Usi n g  Occ u pancy  Gri d s f o r M obi l e R o bot Perception and Navigation”. IEEE Computer Magazine Special Issue on Autonomous Intelligent Machines, v. 22, n 6, June 1989  1 A. El fes Dy nam i c C ont rol o f R o b o t P e rcept i o n Usi n g Stochastic Spatial Models. In G. Schmidt \(ed.\ation Processing in Mobile Robots, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, July 1991  15 A. Elfes Mu lti-Sou r ce Sp atial Fu si o n Using Bayesi an Reasoning. In M. A. Abidi and R. C. Gonzalez \(eds.\, Data Fusion in Robotics and Machine Intelligence, Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1992  1 A  El fes  R ob ot  Navi gat i on  I n t e gr a t i ng Pe rce p t i o n Environment Constraints and Task Execution Within a Probabilistic Framework”. In Reasoning with Uncertainty in Robotics, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 1996  1 B r uch  M  H  T he m u l t i rob o t  o p era t or c o nt r o l u n i t  MOCU\," SPIE Proc. 6230: Unmanned Systems Technology VIII, Defense Security Symposium, Orlando FL, April 18-20, 2006   B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Alberto Elfes is a Principal Member of Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Systems Section at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\He leads projects in the areas of autonomous aerial vehicles for planetary exploration coordination and control of robot/robot and robot/human teams and space mission planning and architecture optimization. He has held positions as Director of the Automation Institute, Brazil, and as a research scientist at th e IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, the Engineering Design Research Center and the Robotics Institute, CMU. Additionally, he has held university professorships in Brazil and Germany. He has an E.Eng. degree in Electronics Engineering and an M.Sc degree in Computer Science from the Aeronautics Institute of Technology \(ITA\razil, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineer ing, with concentration in Robotics, from Carnegie-Mellon University. Dr. Elfes has over 100 publications in international journals, conferences and books, and has lectured ex tensively in North America Europe, Brazil and Japan. He is a recipient of the Mercator Professorship Award of the German Research Foundation DFG   


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


