  1 An Antenna Selection Algorithm for Mars Exploration Rover to Increase Data Return with Minimum Delay Mahendiran Prathaban, Elena Simu, Josephine Kohlenberg IT/ Telecom Et Management SudParis 9 rue Charles Fourier, 9101- \311vry cedex, France mahendiran.prathaban@it-sudparis.eu, elena.simu@g mail.com, josephine.kohlenberg@it-sudparis.eu  Abstract 227This paper proposes an antenna selection algorithm for Mars Exploration Rover \(MER\ER can autonomously  select which antenna to use between Xband Direct-To-Earth \(DTE\communication according  to its constrains and limitation to effectively use their resources and thereby in crease data return. When MER selects a path for communication, it simultaneously selects an antenna for transmission of data to earth 
In our algorithm, we have de fined a cost function for each possible path based on three parameters namely power required by the rover to transmit in that path, average delay and error rate. A weighting is given to each parameter in the function based upon a pplication Quality of Service \(QoS requirement. The algorithm has low computational complexity and provides optimum performance. This proposed algorithm would make MER more autonomous in terms of communication system. We have presented simulation results and analysis 1 2  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1 
 2  L IMITATIONS 2  3  N ETWORK A RCHITECTURE 205\205\205\205\205\205\205\205\205\205\205..3 4  A NTENNA S ELECTION A LGORITHM 5  5  P ERFORMANCE A NALYSIS A ND R ESULTS 8  6  C ONCLUSION 
9  R EFERENCES 10  B IOGRAPHY 10  1  I NTRODUCTION  Exploration of Red Planet is growing since the launch of Pathfinder. Various new missions like \223Mars sample return\224 and \223Human exploration in Mars\224 have been envisaged by the space agencies to explore and investigate planet Mars Over the next decade, intern ational plans and commitments are underway to develop an infrastructure at Mars to support future exploration of the red planet. The main purpose of this infrastructure is providing on global communication coverage for all asserts on Mars like 
Lander, rover, and orbiters. Various researches are going on to improve the data return ab ility of Mars surface network As the amount of data return from Mars increases, the need for robust communication architecture and equipments are obvious. And it must not only meet the requirement of the 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5 09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper #1249, Version 5, Updated  Nov 03, 2008 current mission, but also enable to adapt to future missions as well  For the last few years two Mars Exploration Rovers known as Spirit and Opportunity, were deployed on the planet surface. The mission of a Mars rover is to explore the planet surface and gather raw science data and analysis 
results \(e.g., chemical and geol ogical analysis of rocks and soil samples\o send back to Earth. The rover generates the power to cope with these basic activities using solar panels and storing energy in internal batteries  Currently Mars Exploration Rovers are remotely operated from Earth with detail configuration and operation plans uploaded into the rovers. Alternatively, it would be interesting to embed some intelligence in the rover to operate autonomously, requiring manual configuration or intervention only rarely and under exceptional circumstance  Typically a Lander/rover will carry two communication system 4  The first one is an X-band Direct-to-Earth DTE\-Earth \(D FE\stem designed to operate at lower data rate with higher reliability. The other 
system is a higher-data rate UHF radio with omnidirectional antenna designed to communicate with the satellites orbiting around Mars, the 2003Mars Express, the 2001Mars Odyssey and the 1997 Mars Global Surveyor Key rover telecom parameters are summarized in Table 1 Table 1 Comparison of MER DTE and UHF Relay Link Parameters Direct-toEarth\(DTE Relay Band X-band \(8.4 GHz UHF \(0.4 GHz RF transmit power \(W 15 12 Antenna 28 cm HGA \(24.8 dB LGA \(6.9 dB Monopole 2 dBi 
Telemetry data rate 3.6 kbps to DSN 70m \(@ end of prime mission 2.1AU 128 kbps nominal to MGS/ODY \(256 kbps for favorable ODY over flights  The main objective of rover communication system is to return the investigated data b ack to earth. When a rover has some information to send, it sends the data using the available communication link either DTE or Relay link intuitively rover select an antenna to transmit the 


  2 information back to earth. He nce a focus is given in the direction to embed some intelligence in rover by which rover can select by itsel f the communication link for transmission according to its requirement and availabilities like power, link capacity  Almost 90% of the data returned by the rovers \(Spirit and Opportunity\has been communicated over the Mars odyssey relay link and only 3% of data is returned using DTE. Though, UHF link has been heavily favored, with the recent advancem in X-ba nd transmitters, prompted us to look in to different direction. As proposed in   X-band appliques provide the Electra UHF transceiver with dual UHF and X-band capability and the Lander equipped with appropriate transmitter appliqu\351 would also be able to communicate DTE. With the recent advancements in protocol architecture like Bundle protocol W h ere wi t h  an effective selection of appropriate routes, results in good throughput  In this paper, we have proposed an antenna selection algorithm between X-band DTE and UHF, which in turn select a path for transmission \(Rover \226 DSN, or Rover \226 Orbiter \226 DSN\here the rover select its path according to rovers constrains \(e.g.: powe r\and QoS requirement of the applications if any  The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In the section 2 we have demonstrated the power constraint of the rover and its telecommunication limitations. Section 3 describes the Mars surface network architecture which we have chosen for the study and the li nk parameters of each path in the network. In section 4 we describe our antenna selection algorithm. Section 5 presents the performance results of the proposed algorithm. Section 6 concludes the paper 2  L IMITATIONS  Resource Limitations  The Mars rovers are typically highly constrained in the mass, volume, power, and energy available for communications. The power and energy sources in a rover greatly affect the rover design, capabilities, and mission architecture. The power and energy requirements of a resource limited rover can be broken down into three categories: internal, external, and mobility. We are concerned only about power required for communication external  In both rovers \(Spirit and Opportunity\ar panels are considered as main source for power generation. There are various factors which affect the generation of power in the robot; like eccentricity of the Mars orbit; quantity of dust in the atmosphere; seasons; time of the day; panel orientation In order to understand the impact of these factors over the power generated in the rover, we have measured the power level in the rover for one Mars day \(1 sol\between 6hr-18hr day time\ng the formula give in equation 1  P = G h  solar A solar 1  Where P is power generated by the solar panel solar is efficiency of converting solar radiation into power; A solar is the area of the solar panel and G h is the global irradiance on the horizontal surface give n by the equation 2  G h G bh G dh 2 Where G bh is the direct beam irradiance on the horizontal plane and G dh is the diffused irradiance of the horizontal plane                                   8 12 16 18 40 60 80 120 140 160 180 1.3m2 1.6m2  Figure 1 Power available in the Rover for 1sol As we can see from the Figure, due to the variance of solar irradiance throughout the day, the output of solar panel has similar effect in power generation. The result is a window of operation, in which the rover has enough power to perform tasks  Communication Limitations  Another main challenge in MER is the communication window selection. In the mission, systems analysts on the strategic team \(both rovers, longer-term, Earth time produced most communication windows, and systems analysts on the tactical team dedicated rover, sol-by-sol planning, and Mars time\odified, added, and deleted communication windows based on how their rover was doing. The Telecom analysts \(all on the tactical team checked window parameter values and consistency with DSN station tracking times or UHF orbiter overflights using a set of flight rules and the X-band and UHF predictions. After the windows were validated, they formed part of the command upload se nt to each rover. Checking was manual. And there is always a possibility of human error  Suppose that during a fine Martian sol, one portion of a rover\222s onboard data storage device fails. With stereo image data flowing in, the remaining buffer space may well get overwhelmed before the next opportunity to submit diagnostic telemetry back to Earth. As a result, the final 10 20 Local hour T Power available from the solar panels[W 6 0 14 100 1m2 


  3 reading from a spectrometer of the sol\222s rock-grinding experiments might get discarded. After all, it can take up to an Earth day for ground control to react and reconfigure the mission  Various research is going on to automate the selection process to eliminate some of the manual effort and human error. Given this issue; we are intended to propose some intelligence in MER \(selection algorithm\, so that it can select by itself when it can  send data back to Earth with respect to its own resource conditions and application requirements to improve data return ability. To provide some intelligence in MER to select the appropriate link for transmission, it is necessary to indentify each possible link for communication and its characteristics  3  N ETWORK A RCHITECTURE  In the section we have describe network architecture which is under consideration for the study and the link parameters which affect the communication performance. The investigated scenario is derived from the ongoing space missions aimed at exploring the Mars surface, collecting images and measurements and transmitting them to Earth gathering centers via a suitable communication infrastructure  In more detail, the reference environment considered in this paper consists of rovers a nd Landers placed on the Mars\222 surface, responsible for taking measures and pictures, which will communicate either through Direct-to-Earth \(DTE\or through relay node on the Earth by means of relay link. As far as the relay nodes are c oncerned a spacecraft located nearby Mars surface receives da ta arriving from the Landers and rovers, and forward them to the Earth gathering center Each of these links is analyzed here to define the parameter required to model our selection algorithm      The parameters which affect the performance of the communication system are; power available and required for transmission, propagation delay, bit error rate, link availability period, and bandwidth. Relation between there parameters are briefly described below 200  Power The power available at the rover at the given instant is depended on the design of the rover which is described in section 2  200  Propagation Delay and Link availability Propagation delay and proximity link availability are depended on the orbit mechanism and for DTE link propagation delay is directly proportional to the distance between Mars surface assets and Earth deep space network  In the following subsection, we define the characterizers we considered for each possible link in the network  DTE Link  The rover, roughly the size of a golf cart, included antennas for both relay and DTE communications. However, due to size limitations, the High Gain Antenna \(HGA DTE Communication between MER and DSN has been at X-band for all mission phases. X-band \(7.2 to 8.5 GHz\is attractive because of the existing near-Earth and deep-space frequency allocations and because onboard   hardware could be shared for both the deep space and local links. The biggest concern is potential self-interference during simultaneous DTE and local-link communication passes  Rover is very much limited in power, so we characterize each possible link based on its power requirement for data transmission. To characterize the DTE link we have started by analyzing various type of modulation technique and Differential Phase-Shift Keying Modulation \(DSPK\which provides simple demodulation technique with minimum transmission loss seems to be a good choice  DTE l i nk performance is evaluated by amount of power received at DSN. The power received is calculated as per the equation 3  P r P t G + L Loss   3      Earth Mars     UHF   UHF   UHF    X Figure 2 Basic Network Architecture 200  Bandwidth and Data Rate Bandwidth and data rate are depended on the type of modulation used in each link or channel  200  Attenuation Attenuation depended mostly on the distance between the sender and receiver and their atmospheric conditions  200  Bit error Rate Bit error rate \(BER\s mostly dependent on the characteristics of the link \(modulation technique coding\BER value is established at link design and it indicates how often data has to be retransmitted because of an error  


  4 Where P t and P r represent the power transmitted and power received at each end with an antenna gain G \(dB\and link loss L loss This equation 3. can be rewritten in detail us   LaddLsGrxGtx B R No Eb NFNPt 212\212  log10   4    Where NF = Noise factor \(measure of noise introduced by the receiver tx G rx Transmission and Receiver antenna gains, L s Free space losses, L add  Additional losses due to the atmosphere, polarization, the accuracy of the transmission, and Noise power N is given equation 5 N k*T*B  5  Where T = Noise temperature of the System; B = Noise Bandwidth  We have characterized these parameters in order to find the power required for transmission in DTE link. Given the type of modulation chosen Differential Phase-Shift Keying Modulation \(DSPK and error m odel we can det e rm i n e Eb/No\signal to noise ration in DTE link. We have also considered attenuation from both Earth atmospheres and Mars atmosphere. Where cumulative atmospheric losses not exceed 8dB under normal condition, and attenuation in Mars surface is approximately 3dB. Attenuations occurring in the environment in interplanetary space have been neglected because they are too small. Parameters are listed in Table 2 Table  2 DTE Link Parameters  Parameters Value Receive Antenna Gain 75dBi Emitter  Antenna Gain 2dBi Frequency 8439.444446 MHz \(return link Bandwidth 8000Hz Noise Factor 5dB Noise Temperature 10.7K Attenuation Losses 8dB Modulation DSPK  Orbiter Relay Link  A relay link to an orbiting satellite at Mars provides dramatic performance improvement compared to a direct-toEarth link. The range to an orbiter is a factor of > 20,000 times smaller compared to the maximum Mars-Earth distance \(= 2.6 AU\hen cons idering that the achievable data rates vary by the square of the distance, the improvement is clearly significant. In spite of the dramatic difference in using a relay link to an orbiting satellite at Mars, rovers and other Landers still require careful telecommunication design to ensure robust command forward\etry \(return\data paths. Factors affecting mission design include the regularity and duration of satellite contact time, transmission power, data rates, and communication operations Table 3 Rover \226 Orbiter Relay Link Parameter  Parameters Value Receive Antenna Gain 5dBi Emitter  Antenna Gain 2dBi Frequency 401.585625MHz  Bandwidth 128000Hz Noise Factor 3dB Noise Temperature 550K Attenuation Losses 0.1 dB Modulation QSPK  In the similar way, as DTE link, we a have analyzed roverorbit relay link. To determine the power requirement for transmission we have used the same equation 5. We have selected Quadrature Phase Shift Keying \(QPSK\odulation technique  t o provi de hi gh bandwi d t h effi ci ency i n UHF frequency. Since range between rover and orbiter is small the attenuation losses quite less compared to DTE link Parameters are summarized in the table 3  Lander \226 Rover Link  Communication between Rover and Lander are considered as simple wireless link shown in Figure 2.Where rover communicates with Lander with its UHF antenna when rover is in the communication range of Lander. We have model this Lander - Rover link similar to Rover \226 Orbiter Link. Same QPSK modulation technique is used in UHF frequency band. Equation 5 is used again to determine the power requirement by rover   Figure 3 Attenuation Measure on Mars surface between Lander and Rover In this link RF signal suffers reflection, refraction and take on multiple routes due to relief on Mars Planet and therefore a simple free space attenuation model cannot be applied The irregular terrain model like Longley-Rice model is used 


Data rate [bps Power required for transmission [dB 10 100 50 50 40 UHF   5 since it suits best in this condition for Mars surface environment. This choice is viable to deliver the mitigation route for frequencies range of 20MHz to 20GHz. This model estimated losses signal for a radio spot with irregularities and for frequency is VHF, UHF and SHF as depending on the distance and vary the signal in time and space. Figure 3. exemplifies attenuation between rover and Lander with their distance between them by using this irregular terrain model. The parameters of the link are summarized in Table 4  Based on the numerical parame ters modeled for each link we have determined the power requirement for the transmission in each link for the resource limited rover. To understand the dependency of each parameter we have plotted the power requirement for transmission in each links with respect to data rate which is shown in the Figure 4. As expected power required for the DTE link is Table 4 Rover \226 Lander Link Parameters Parameters Value Receive Antenna Gain 2dBi Emitter  Antenna Gain 2dBi Frequency 435MHz  Bandwidth 64000Hz Noise Factor 3dB Noise Temperature 20k Attenuation Losses 128dB Modulation QSPK  higher compared to orbiter and Lander link due to distance between Mars Rover and Earth. The power require for rover-Lander and rover-orbiter are almost the same. One explanation is that, even th e distance between rover and Lander is less than rover-orbiter, the attenuations due to the environment are stronger than attenuations in free space for 400km \(as it was considered the altitude of the satellite                          ROVER-LANDER  Figure 4 Power Required for Transm ission \(dB\n Rover depending on data rate  Figure 5. reveals the linear dependence between power and data rate, useful for characterizing the link and for establishing this parameter for a certain RF connection link                       ROVER-EARTH 0 5 15 x 10 4 30 20 10 20 30 ROVER-ORBITER 0 0 0 ROVER-LANDER  Figure 5 Power Required for Tran smission \(W\n Rover depending on data rate                                Bandwidth [kbps Data rate \(kbps Data rate [bps Power required for transmission [W 5 15 x 10 4 0 200 300 400 500 600 ROVER-ORBITER 0 100 150 200 250 300 100 150 200 250 300 350 HGA  Figure 6 Data rate depending on Bandwidth Historically, the data rates for deep space S/C are powerlimited, not bandwidth-limited; hence, the DSN selected modulation methods that allow capture of all the power from a rather broad bandwidth. The most common modulation used for deep space S/C is Bi-phase Phase Shift Modulation \(BPSK\odulation on a subcarrier. More recently, other modulation types like Quadrature Phase Shift OQPSK\ore bandwidth efficient were added. Thus DSPK is selected for power limited DTE and for Relay link bandwidth-efficient QSPK modulation is selected. Figure 6 reveals the theoretical dependence of data rate and the digital bandwidth and as it may be seen the occupied bandwidth increases as data rate increases 4  A NTENNA S ELECTION A LGORITHM  Basic Assumptions  In this section we describe the proposed antenna selection algorithm. The algorithm is intended to provide some intelligence in rover by which it can decide when and by which link it will return data b ack to earth according to its ROVER-EARTH 10 10 


  6 limitation and availability. We assume that rover can calculate \(Figure 1.\ower availability for transmission in advance \(before any transmission window\e assume that at given moment the rover knows the time and duration of the Mars orbiter passes. This assumption is made with strong belief that feedback mechanism is possible between rover and orbiter; since when orbiter passed overhead a rover, the orbiter signal the rover/Lander via a hailing message defined by the CCS DS Proximity-1 Space Link Protocol and est a bl i s hes radi o com m uni cat i on for t h e duration of the pass. With this hailing message; other information like buffer availability at the orbiter and possible delay achieved in relaying the rover data back to earth \(which is depend on the visibility window of orbiter and earth\ith these data rovers are able to select the path for transmission according to its limitation and resource available at that instant of time  Known parameters at Rover \226 In Advance  Before beginning the transfer of data rover assumed to know the following information  1  Buffer space availability  With recent improved in Mars communication protocol which uses store-and-forward mechanism storage become a critical parameter to achieve good throughput. Here we assume that the rover know in advance the buffer space available at the lander L   O   DSN help of feedback mechanisms in the communication protocols  2  Link availability period  Link availability period is the measure of pass duration. Rover can know period in advance thanks to CCSDS Proximity-1 Space Link Protocol In case of orbiter O d visibility period of Lander L   DSN   3  Total  propagation delay   We define total possible propagation delay in  each link toward the destination \(DSN\Total  propagation delay between rover and Earth station  is given by DSN hat of Lander and orbiter is  given by L   O Where total delay for rover  226 orbiter link is the additive delay between rover to  orbiter and orbiter to DSN and for rover-Lander  link includes delay rover to Lander, Lander to  orbiter and orbiter to earth station  Network topology  In our network topology we have very few nodes namely rover; Lander; orbiter and DS N. Hence we have modeled our network as oriented graph with node and edges, where each path has specific cost for transmission  G = \(N, E  6  Where N is number of point node in the graph and E represent it corresponding edges which connect these nodes  Cost Function  The path for communication is selected with help of simple cost function. A transmission co st is associated with each path in the graph and rover se lects any path according to the cost of path. Path selection is indeed nothing but selection of specific antenna on the Rover Web for communication. It is argued that rover used the same antenna for both RoverLander path and Rover-orbiter with two different frequencies to avoid inte The cost  funct i on associate with each path is a real valued function give by the formula Cost C R    7 And the cost of each path is give by   Cost C \(p w 1  p 2 P \(p 3 p  8   Where w 1 w 2 w 3 are the weightings for each parameter these values are dependent of application QoS requirements for transmission and are expected to be determined in an heuristic method; P\(p\rover to transmit the information on the respective path p average total delay in the path p. Delay is composed of three delay components: 1\ng time, 2\ransmission delay and 3\ion delay. Queuing time includes both the time waiting for an edge to become available \(waiting time and the time to drain messages already scheduled for departure on that edge. Minimizing delay lowers the time messages spend in the network, reducing contention for resources; therefore, lowering delay indirectly improves the probability of message delivery p PER\which depending on the bit error rate \(BER p; give by  PER = 1 \226 \(1-BER N   9 Where, N is number of bits in each packet transmitted. The main object of selection algorithms is to select a path which minimizes the edge weight  Selection Rules  The weightings for each parameter in the cost function are given according to the QoS requi rement of the application traffic. The main traffic through the network contains 200  Remote control The command and control messages sent from the Earth to remote devices at the exploration sites. The delivery of remote control messages is time-sensitive and requires high reliability 200  Data delivery The scientific data delivery from the exploration sites back to the Earth, which can be 


  7 classified into two types with respect to the initiator and the service requirements. Automatic data delivery: initiated by the mission devices at remote exploration site, reporting mission status and some environmental data typically. Automatic data delivery is time-sensitive and does not have strict reliability requirement 200  Controlled data delivery The earth control center actively queries the mission devices for important scientific data delivery. In this application, the Earth center is aware of where to retrieve the scientific data from and initiates the data delivery This type of data delivery requires a higher level of reliability  We have defined certain rules by which the weightings are allocated for different traffics  200  Reliability Requirement If the application data is required to be transferre d with minimum error then the path which has minimum error rate is given more weightings with respect to other parameters 200  Delay constrain If the application data is required to be transferred with minimum delay; then the path which had minimum delay is give more weightings  Selection Procedure  Selection of path is done in 5 steps. The logical scheme of the algorithm shown in Figure 7   1  When the data is available for transmission rover calculate the weightings w 1 w 2 w 3 for each path according to the selection rules 2  Rover then calculate the cost for each path and select the path with have lowest  cost 3  Check the buffer space availability and link availability period for the selected path 4  If the verification in step 3 passes then rover use the selected path , else it repeat the step 3 for next closest path 5  Selected path is used for transmission  It was considered that every moment, the rover knows the power available from the solar panels \(only this source of power is used for daily activities, batteries been used only during the night eceiving the acknowledgment from the available nodes \(orbiters\he paths are arranged according to their cost in table C\(P i  three times, at most. Depending on the QoS requirements the weightings are read from a predefined table \(it can be considered that this table is specific to each model of rovers\path, which will be element of the table If the link availability period is larger than the time necessary to transmit a bundle, then whole bundle \(n   transmitted with a data rate DR\only if buffer space is available to accommodate entire bundle available space in the receiver equipment\hen both conditions are satisfied, the algorithm is applied and return to forward state. For the situation that one of the conditions is not respected, the algorithm implies a return to the table that contains the values for cost function of each path, the index is incremented and the link with the next cost is selected There are then verified for both the conditions time availability period and available buffer space and if there are respected, then the path is selected. If not, the algorithm will stop and wait a predefined period of time until a new broadcast signal will be sent and new cycle for verifications will begin     The power available in the rover \(it is know Available paths are selected depending on each cost index=0  Read the table index <= 3   STOP  NO   min\(C  n/DR  YES   YES   n C\(P i   YES   FORWARD index index NO  NO  Figure 7 Logical scheme of the algorithm 200  Power constrain At a given instance if the power available at the rover is minimum; the path with minimum power requirement is given more weighting compared to other parameters in each path so that path which require less power is selected 


  8 5  P ERFORMANCE A NALYSIS A ND R ESULTS  The algorithm was implemented in Matlab with a function that returns as a result, the path selected by the rover\222s communication system. In order to understand the behavior of the algorithms, we have pred efine the size of the message sent; an average value of pow er required for transmission for each path is defined as per the Figure 1. And the data rate is chosen according to pow er availability in the system A simple two state error model is used to define error rate and the weightings for each parameter for calculating the cost function  The simulations were done for different scenarios and different values. Since the res earch can be considered for layer one and two of the networking stack, the values have been approximated for the equipments that were taken as models and as references. During multiple simulations, it was observed that the rover will choose the path to Lander in any situations, if the Lander will be available at the moment of transmission, since weightings in cost function have greater impact on this link. It will be chosen the way to orbiter only if there is not enough space in the Lander\222s buffer. The proximity links appear to be the favorites since there is required less power and less delay to the next node Also, since Lander use two different frequency for communication between rover and orbiter, it will be able to communicate with the same orb iter as well as the rover at the same time without interference. The power-data rate factor of the link is calculated as transmission power divided to data rate. The smaller is the value; the better is the path \(due to the consumption of power versus the data rate 10 10 12 6 0 200  rover-DSN is 3.5  [W  200  rover-lander is 0.210937 [W  200  rover-orbiter is 0.140625 [W   The link orbiter-DSN can easily be considered like the rover-DSN from point of view of distance, propagation delay of the packet. The signi ficant difference is that the transmission part is supported by the orbiter in this situation, and not by rover. The path to DSN, as it was expected, is the most expensive \(the biggest value for the power-data rate factor\and it is elected as an opportunity only if there is no orbiter in the visibility or/and the buffer\222s available space of the Lander doesn\222t permit that the message to be received. Thus Mars orbital infrastructure is efficient utilized with help of the proposed algorithm and rover select its path and antenna according to its requirements  For simulations, it was considered the MRO as the orbiter in the scenario. The orbiter has two contacts, near 4-5 AM LMST and 4-5 PM LMST, each is about 10 minutes. It was considered the rover will be able to communicate with the DSN every moment of the day \(all moments when the rover will be on the side of the planet oriented to the Earth\.The global coverage on the surface of the planet Earth is assured by the three complexes of antenna \(Canberra, Madrid and California\ally by the 70m-antennas In order to understand the impact of each rules in algorithm first simulation were done considering the decision based on power availability \(rule 1: energy consumption\. Simulation is done for 1Mars day \(sol\ 6hr to 18hr. In the scenario we have considered only one or biter MRO, so we have only one pass over the rover during the day. The packet length is fixed to be 10Mb. Result of the simulation is shown in the Figure 8. From the graph we can see that, rover \226 Lander link is selected for quite long period \(we assumed buffer space in Lander to be quite good\Due to the buffer over flow in the Lander, at 11hr LMST rover select DTE link ahead of rover -orbiter \(which is not visible orbiter is available at 17hr LMST algorithm recalculate the cost function \(we assume orbiter pass information is transmitted to rover\d select rover-orbiter instead of DTE link as expected  Relay UHF link seems to be the most favorable path due to its energy efficiency, but th ere are some scenarios where both rover-Lander link \(buffer space no pass\ available where algorithm alternatively select DTE link for communication \(if power available which make rover more autonomous. From the above result we can infer that rover-Lander link is used 85% of time when compared with rover-o rbiter \(8 7 which proves that relay link are more effective                                 8 14 16 18 5 15 20 25 30 35 40 Local hour [h Power required for transmission [W DTE orbiter lander  Figure 8 Algorithm results due to the power constraints for a sol The next scenario where application required its data to be delivered with minimum delay possible to the destination is considered. Though presently we just have file delivery application where delay is not a big issue, but with the recent advance in applica tion domain where audio and video applications are proposed have higher degree of impact on delay. Taking those applications in to consideration the algorithm rule s are formulated. Here both propagation delay and storage delay is considered for calculation. Though the propagation delay is very less for both Lander and orbiter; they have quite higher storage delay in comparison with DTE link \(no storage delay\. This is due to the scheduled contact between Lander and orbiter to transfer data and orbiter have to wait for visibility of 


8 12 14 16 18 5 15 20 25 30 35 40   9 earth station to transfer data; hence higher storage delay                                 power constraints                               delay constraints DTE-7 UHF-93 DTE-92 UHF-8  Figure 10 Antenna Selection % upon two different rules To ameliorate the algorithm we are intended to simulate the all scenarios with a constellation of orbiters, so that weightings can are precisely de fined for all scenarios more accurately  We then consider a scenario where a message needs to be transmitted with minimum delay but there is no enough power available. When simulated, the function of the algorithm returns 0, where rover will do nothing and wait until power level in system is up for any possible transfer Since the algorithm implies to check two conditions, the power requirement and link availability, if any one condition fails the algorithm returns 0 6  C ONCLUSION  One of the main challenges in MER is communication windows selection, where technical analysis predefined the selection windows and uploads the daily schedule to MER To this extent to make MER more autonomous, we have proposed an antenna selection algorithm with simple feedback mechanism, in whic h MER select when and how to transmit the explored data back to earth. With the help of this algorithm rover select a path for communication with Earth station according to its limitations and application requirement, which can also be seen a cross layer adaptive routing procedure. We have then implemented this algorithm in MatLab to understand the behavior of the algorithm. The performance resu lts show that MER select Relay communication link often when compared to DTE link. We can argue that with selection of antenna \(path autonomously without wa iting for command from ground station will improve data return/sol. In this algorithm we just define few simple rules by with rover select its communication path , as future work it would be interesting to implement more sophisticated  rules to make MER more robust and autonomous and also to have few more simulations with more orbiters and more realistic scenarios to improve selection process  6 0 1 10 10 Local hour Power required for transmission [W orbiter DTE  Figure 9 Algorithm results due to the delay constraints for a sol Figure 9 illustrate the simulation result for this scenario for one sol. As we can see from the graph, DTE link is selected ahead of both relay links when delay is considered as application QoS parameter. But when orbiter passes over rover relay link is selected though they have high storage delay is due to power limitation in rover which forced antenna selection algorithm to look for alteration. We recalculate the cost function wh en orbiter pass\351 by visibility of rover \(kind of an update\s we can see from the graph rover used around 92% of time DTE antenna when delay parameter is considered  The illustrated results from Figures 8 and 9 represent the decisions made at a moment of time in the rover. The rover\222s schedule for a sol depends upon the mission of the robot. At any moment of the day, for implementing this algorithm, the rover should know the available power from the solar panels and the link parameters \(known from link design\so, standard values for the weightings should exist corresponding to the equipment. Since the DTE link is the less-efficient link, the solution for transmitting messages with optimal delay is to design a full-coverage orbiters constellation \(ideal situation; like the GPS one for the Earth but with another scope\so, these link \(power-efficient will be used as delay-efficient links \(in the situation that the orbiters will transmit imme diate after receiving the message\ents will use DTE link only for emergency situations, efficient for the moments when the DSN would not be able to control the Martian robots the link will be selected automated  Figure 10 illustrate the selecti on percentage of each antenna for two different scenarios. The big differences between the results appear because in bot h scenarios only one orbiter was used in the scenario \(with only one pass over the rover/Lander\constrain scenario the results seems to be closer to reality \(which is happening in case of spirit and opportunity now\he second delay constrain scenario, where DTE link is preferred seems quite unnatural \(since in our algorithm, huge weightings were given\nce DTE link is more expensive in case of power it is desired to be used only for emergency cases                           100 10 2 0 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 


  10 R EFERENCES   Ji m Tay l or, Andre M a kovsky  Andrea B a rbi e ri  R a m ona Tung, Polly Estabrook, A. Gail Thomas, \223Mars Exploration Rover Telecommunications,\224 Deep Space Communications and Navigation Systems, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 2005    Ant s os D., \223M ars Technol ogy Program  communications and tracking technologies for Mars exploration\224, Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2006   Joseph I. St at m a n, C D. E. \223C odi ng m odul at i on and relays for deep space communication Mars Rovers Case Study\224;  IEEE 23rd Convention of Electrical Engineers, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 2004   B r ei dent hal J.C and Edwards, C D and Greenberg E and Kazz, G.J. and Noreen, G.K., \223End-to-end information system concept for the Mars Telecommunications Orbiter\224 Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2006   Form ul at i on of M odul at i on R ecom m e ndat i ons for Future NASA Space Communications, Web site http://coding.jpl.nasa.gov/~hamkins     Lee C  C h eung, K, \223Power, dat a l a t e ncy and radi o frequency interference issues in Mars relay network scheduling\224, Proc. IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2003, 8 8_3513-8_3524   K.Scot t and S. B u rl ei gh, B undl e prot ocol speci fi cat i on RFC 5050, November 2007  m ittee fo r Space Data Systems,\224 Proximity-1 Space link Protoc ol\224, Draft Recommendation for Space Data System Sta ndards, CCSDS January 2002  B IOGRAPHY  Mahendiran PRATHABAN holds a M.Sc in Computer and Communication Network from Institut National des T\351l\351communications  France in 2006. He is currently working toward the Ph.D degree at University Pierre et Marie Curie Paris VI\, France. His research interest lies in the area of protocols for Deep Space communication Network, Delay Tolerant Network, and Computer Simulations   Elena SIMU holds a BSc in Mobile Communications and Satellites, University POLITEHNICA of Bucharest in 2008.She is currently attending the master courses in    Radio communication, Microwaves and Optical Fiber, Faculty of Electronics, Telecommunications and Technology Information, Bucharest  Jos\351phine Kohlenberg is Associate Professor and  Researcher at RST \(R\351seaux et Services des T\351l\351communications department at TELECOM Management SudParis since Mars 2004. She received engineer diploma on Telecommunication and Electronics in 1991, a DEA \(Research Master\ in Computer Networks at Paris 6 in 1992 and a "Mast\350re Sp\351cialis\351" at INT on Networks and Data processing" in 1992. Dr. Kohlenberg received PhD degrees in computer science at Marie et Pierre Curie, Paris VI University  in 1996. Between 19962004 she works on French Companies \(Mobile Operators IT companies\ as IT system and network architect and Program Manager. Her research interests include Technical infrastructures of the systems and networks infrastructures of safeguards, supervision, performances simulations, direction project, contained new services 3G She currently ensures the TELECOM & Management SudParis an activity of research and teaching in these fields and she developed projects on te lecommunications spatial domain: Deep Space Communication Networks, Delay Tolerant Networks, Nano satellites technologies. Dr Kohlenberg has more 30 published papers in national and international conferences, she make presentations on conferences and workshops The current research interests are in nanosatellites systems and QoS protocol communications on very long distances and disturbed environments     


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


