   1 Stabilizing an S-Band Antenna for Mobile Communication from the Moon Mark Desnoyer, Kelleher Guerin Robotics Institute Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 markd@cmu.edu, kguerin@andrew.cmu.edu  Abstract The Google Lunar X-prize is a race for the first commercial program to fly a rover to the Moon and return imagery 12 In order to meet media expectations and generate significant revenue, this imagery must be in 720p High Definition format, which necessitates very high bandwidth communications. In order to provide such bandwidth 
throughout the mission, a high gain antenna must remain pointed at Earth, even while roving. This paper describes the simulation and performance analysis of a system to stabilize an S-band antenna for a moving X-prize class rover. To determine the necessary flight components and control system complexity, various sensor configurations are compared. These sensors include an earth tracking camera an inertial measurement unit and motor encoders. The resulting system demonstrates the pointing capability necessary to achieve a sustaine d 2.0Mbps data transfer to a 13m ground receiving dish, enough for a successful commercial venture to the Moon.\037\037 T 
ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1 2  R EQUIREMENTS 2 3  D ESIGN O VERVIEW 2 4  S ENSING 3 5  C ONTROL S YSTEM 4 6  E VALUATION 
4 7  C ONCLUSIONS 8 8  R ECOMMENDATIONS FOR F UTURE W ORK 8 9  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS 9 R EFERENCES 9 B IOGRAPHY 10  1  I NTRODUCTION  For a mobile robotic system, es pecially one deployed in a 
remote location where human intervention is unavailable maintaining high speed communication is critical.  For most remote systems, a large aperture antenna can be used, but   1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1178, Version 3, Updated 2009:01:11 these applications are generally for very large vehicles or stationary systems.  For a relatively small mobile application, size and weight constraints necessitate a smaller antenna. Besides aperture, the parameter with the most impact on transmission bandwidth is beam width in relation to the target; a smaller beam will have more focused energy 
and thus be able to send more information.  The reduced size of the beam, however, requires that the pointing of the antenna be carefully maintain ed. Any deviation can cause reduced bandwidth or communication dropouts The Google Lunar X PRIZE challenge is a proposed mission to deploy a robotic vehicle on the moon. The robot will traverse 500 meters on the lunar surface and send back high definition video of this trek [1 It will also b e o p e rated  remotely and must maintain continuous transmission of large HD video feeds. Because of these operational constraints, constant high gain communication must be maintained between the rover and the Earth regardless of pose or position on the lunar surface. The Earth is a small 
target in the lunar sky, subtending roughly 1.8 degrees.  To continuously point the antenna at the Earth, sensing must be used to monitor the pose of the rover relative to the Earth direction, and actuation must reposition the antenna direction accordingly.  To accomplish this, a closed loop control system is shown, consisting of coarse pose information from an Earth looking camera, and fine pose information from wheel encoders and an inertial measurement unit High gain antenna pointing for space born mobile robots has been demonstrated for both the Moon and Mars. The Mars Exploration Rovers use a high gain phased array to communicate with Earth, however, because of the time lag 
to Mars, these rovers remain stationary when communicating and thus the pointing system does not require a fast response [2 Aut o m a t e d poi nt i ng f o r l u na r  rovers has been demonstrated on a prototype, Earth-based rover [3  T h i s ro ve r poi n t ed w h i l e m ovi n g a n d t h u s  required very fast response time; however, because it was only communicating with a relay station 10km away, it was tracking a target low to the horizon. Furthermore, this station was not easily visible to the rover, unlike on the Moon, where the target \(E arth\nd 


   2 Orbital satellites are another application of payload pointing for space vehicles. They ha ve many requirements in common with a lunar robot, including high gain communications and space ready materials. However, most satellites can require much more accurate pointing as instruments or antennas can have very narrow fields of view. This accuracy is fe asible because the satellites generally move very slowly and thus do not require a fast response time [4 5   8   Fast target tracking systems have been deployed effectively on the ground. For example, some mobile phone relay stations employ an array of antennas to dynamically refocus available bandwidth to users as they initiate calls [9 This technique controls the interference pattern of the antennas to create hot spots where the user s are located, thus enabling fast, multi-target tracking. Other examples include missile defense installations [10 and sh ip m o u n t ed satellite track ers 1  Since the rover is on the Moon, the communications target Earth\isible in the sky. This enables the possibility of using visual servoing [1 wi t h  a n o n b o a rd  cam era T h i s  technique has been demonstrated in many earth-based robotic systems  1 4  but  neve r i n fl i g ht   2  R EQUIREMENTS  In order to achieve the 2.0Mbps data link required by the mission, the communication system uses a 0.7m diameter parabolic high gain S-band antenna transmitting at 2.55Ghz S-band was chosen primarily for the short-term availability of fully equipped receiving st ations on the USN network This type of antenna was ch osen because of its lighter weight compared to an equivalent aperture using other technologies like patch arrays The antenna has a 3dB beam width of 4.9 degrees, while the Earth is 1.8 degrees wide as seen from the moon. This means that the antenna pointing system must maintain a pointing accuracy of 4.0 degrees This is a very relaxed accuracy requirement compared to othe   based pointed instruments which have sub-degree pointing accuracy. However, most other systems do not need to communicate in the presence of large disturbances like will be seen when traveling at 25 cm/s over rough terrain on the moon. In order to determine the system response required, we will use the same method employed in [1 C o nsi d er dr i vi ng o ve r a 1 0 c m roc k Wh e n the wheel rolls off the rock, the front of the chassis will undergo an acceleration of 1.6m/s^2and hit the ground after 0.35s, resulting in an angular displacement of 5.7 degrees Hence, the antenna must be able to track at a rate of 16 degrees per second and assuming an impact occurring for 100ms, stay within the pointing accuracy with a disturbance of 2.8 rad/s^2 As the rover is expected to travel along a maximum slope of 20 degrees and the earth can be a maximum of 22 degrees off zenith, the system must have a pitch-roll range of at least 42 degrees off zenith 3  D ESIGN O VERVIEW  In order to meet the system requirements, many design decisions were made to minimize complexity, mass and power while still providing the system response necessary The resulting system actuates a large antenna using a counter weighted tip/tilt gimbal mechanism. The control system is a dual loop configuration with the inner loop enforcing a stable velocity and an outer loop adjusting for any position drift. Sensing is provided by encoders, an inertial measurement unit and a camera that tracks the Earth using a Hough transform based circle tracking algorithm Mechanical System The mechanical design is a tip tilt gimbal to maximize control authority when pointing above the rover. The structure is shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3. The structure is fundamentally two tubes which intersect in a cross, where each tube contains a motor which drives one of the two axes.  Encoders for each of these motors were integrated as well, in order to provide another input for the control system, to determine the position of each axis   Figure 1. CAD view of the full antenna assembly 


   3  Figure 2.  Computer Aided Drafting view of antenna gimbal structure, coordinate axes overlai d.  The first axis of rotation is around the X-axis while the second is around the Y  Figure 3.  Final assembly of manufactured antenna gimbal 4  S ENSING  For this analysis, we consider using combinations of three different sensing systems to measure a control signal: Earth Tracking Camera, Encoders an d Inertial Measurement Unit Earth Tracking Camera  One of the sensory inputs to the gimbal tracking system is a bore sight camera which is aligned in the direction of the antenna signal.  As the rover moves under the antenna, and subsequently changes the antenna's pose relative to the direction of earth, the camera will record this motion as movement of the Earth in the captured frame.  Each of these frames are then processed using a visual tracking algorithm to find the numerical coordinate change of the Earth relative to the center of the frame.  This signal is then passed into the antenna pointing control system The Earth is a 1.8 degree blue disk surrounded by a black high contrast sky. This creates an ideal situation to use a Hough transform circle tracking algorithm [17 su ppo r t ed  by a Canny edge detector.  However, during the lunar day the Earth's phase changes from half at lunar dawn, to new at lunar noon \(Figure 4\. Therefore, it is important to characterize the algorithm's robustness to phase change These progressions all give circular outlines \(except new and therefore can still be locate d with the Hough transform Furthermore, distortions in the camera system could warp the shape of the Earth and turn its circle into an ovoid. The Hough transform is somewhat robust to this phenomena however more development will most likely be necessary to insure the best robustness to distorted circles. In experimental results with a reasonable camera system however, there were no significant ovoid distortions present  Figure 4. Views of the Earth in going through its phases generated by Celestia \(Astronomy Simulation The Hough transform has been used in several previous applications to detect circles.  Work has been done by Kerbyson and Atherton  as wel l as Ioa n n o u et al 1 7  and Chan [19 Fo r ou r ap p lication   we ap p lied th e following method of identifying the location of the Earth in each frame Given frame \(Xi o  Remove circles do not fit into expected size constraints o  Report center location of Ci  With the following parameters 200  Retrieve Xi from camera buffer 200  Convert Xi to a grayscale image \(Xr 200  Convolve Xr ** \(G\re G is a Gaussian filter 200  Find circles \(Ci\me using the method outlined d [1 8      200  For each circle Ci 200  System speed   24fps 200  Accumulator size  1/4 frame size 200  Distance between circles 100px 


   4  Encoders  Absolute, 13-bit per revolution encoders are used t o  provide angular position feedback of the two gimbal axes The encoder is mounted after the planetary gear system and thus, the measurement represents the direct motion of the antenna gimbal. It is connected non-linearly to the motors because of approximately 1 degree of backlash in the gearing system  Inertial Measurement Unit  A 6-axis MEMS inertial measurement unit \(IMU 21   mounted on the antenna to track angular velocity. As this sensor is mounted on the antenna, it must be small so that it does not interfere with the system's motion and lightweight to reduce the power of the gimbal motors. Lightweight MEMS gyroscopes are noisier than their fiber optic counterparts mostly because MEMS manufacturing is a relatively new process whereas fiber optic technology is mature [22    In this analysis, the extra noise is dealt with by an outer control loop that adjusts for any bias in the system Effectively, after locking onto the target, the sensor is used to keep the antenna aligned. The alignment will drift by 4.2 degrees per hour due to the sensor drift rate, so, a required pointing accuracy of 5 degrees, a homing routine at least once every 71 minutes to regain lock with the target. This assumes a perfect control system  5. C ONTROL S YSTEM   Dynamics  In order to characterize the dynamics of the system, the assembly is treated as a two-link rigid manipulator with dynamic friction \(Figure 2\[2 T h e re su l t i ng st at e spa c e  inertia matrix is shown in Figure 5  Controller Design  Many different controller paradigms are possible for this type of pointing mechanism For example, a system with low pointing accuracy requirem ents could suffice using a simple, single loop PI-D controller 16  In cont rast, a m o r e  complex system with very high pointing requirements 4  would benefit from a dual loop approach where the inner loop is very fast and attempts to quickly negate velocity or torque disturbances in the steady-state, while the outer loop which runs much more slowly, corrects for any position drift. For this project, even though there is a large pointing requirement, a dual loop appr oach is used because it facilitates experimenting with the impact of using various sensor combinations. The inner loop is a velocity control loop that is sensed using the gyros in the IMU and/or the encoders on the motor. The outer loop is a position control loop that receives its feedb ack either through the earth tracking camera or by integrating the gyro measurements and estimating drift using the gravity vector. The block diagram of the resulting system is shown in Figure 6  002 002 002 002 002 002\002 002 002  Figure 5. Resulting State Space Inertial Matrix for the Dynami cs Simulation. Numerical subscripts refer to the axes of rotation in the two link model starting from the base of the mechanism PI D  Motor   Plant  V   Disturbance Velocity Noise Sampling and Discretization Sampling and Discretization 1/z   Position Noise D   PI Desired Position Inner Velocity Control Loop Figure 6. Block diagram of the dual loop PI-D control system 212 212  212   2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 sin\(\cos sin\(\cos\(\\(sin\sin\(\cos\(2\\(cos  2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 yy zy xy zy xy zz xy xxxx I I I I I I I II I 


   5  The gains for the controller ar e determined experimentally by examining the response to an impulse disturbance equivalent to falling off of a 10cm rock. First, the PI-D gains for the inner loop were determined, followed by the gains for the outer loop. For each loop, initial gains were found using the Ziegler-Nichols method [2 and t h en  manually tuned to increase stability. As each sensor combination has different no ise characteristics and thus different degrees of stability, the controllers were retuned for every sensor combina tion. The gains for each combination are shown in Table 1. The lower gains indicate that the system is closer to being unstable with a given set of sensors, so the gains must be reduced, which will degrade system performance by slowing it down  A more complex control system, like integrating a Kalman filter [26 co uld b e  u s ed to  furth e r im p r o v e p e rform a n ce however, for this application that is not necessary to achieve the desired performance  Table 1. Resulting controller gains for the various sensor configurations  Inner Loop  Outer Loop   Kp  Kd  Ki  Kp  Kd  Ki  IMU Only  2.38 2.23e-2 188.1 9 0.255 39.73 Camera IMU  2.38 2.23e-2 188.1 4.5 0.127 19.87 Camera Only  0.204 2.23e-4 0.047 9 0.0254 0.397 Camera Encoders  0.204 2.23e-4 0.047 9 0.0254 3.97  6. E VALUATION   Earth Tracking Robustness  This experiment was designed to test the robustness of the tracking algorithm to visible phase changes in the Earth during the lunar day.  As mentioned before, the Earth will be in a new phase for several days during the lunar day Therefore it was the goal of this experiment to discover exactly when the algorithm would no longer be able to find and track the Earth.  A program called Celestia, a high quality space and solar system rendering program, was used to generate the view of the Earth as it would be seen from the Moon as it changes phase.  The field of view is approximately 30 degrees.  The circle tracker performed well during the majority of the video, as shown in the images in Figure 7. Perfor mance decreased once the Earth approached the new phase as shown in Figure 8   Figure 7. Celestia Output of Earth at 90% Full Phase; the tracking circle is shown in white 


   6  The output of the tracking pr ogram was a series of \(x,y coordinates of the detected ci rcle. The tracking was robust to 85% new phase; at that point the algorithm could no longer detect the Earth.  Figure 8 shows a graph of X coordinate location of the tracked Earth vs.  Phase percentage, where 0 is Full and 100 is new.  The graph shows a zero in the y direc tion every time the tracking algorithm fails to find a circle.  Note the drop off at 85 Because this test was designed to evaluate the robustness of the algorithm to phase change, the test video generated in Celestia was designed for a general case, not taking into account camera distortions or other factors which could change the apparent shape of the Earth.  However, it is assumed that a well designed came ra lens system \(especially with a narrow field of view, viewing the subject in the center region of the view\pherical distortion, and other distortions such as astigmatism and coma, would have a minimal effect on the shape of the Earth  Controller Response  A simulation of the physical simulation was run to characterize the expected pe rformance of the system Parameters for the simulation were provided by the data sheets wherever possible and direct physical measurement of the system when not. The motors are modeled as having output torques linearly related to current applied but saturating at 59 mNm limited to 2860 RPM and then transferred through an ideal 100:1 gear head B a c k l a sh  and coulombic friction are neglected. The dynamics of the plant are described as in the analysis for the controller design above. The inertial measurement unit is modeled as a low pass filter with a cutoff frequency of 350Hz combined with additive Gaussian noise and a sampling rate of 819Hz  o ders are c o nsider ed perfect sensors except for discretization noise. Finally, the camera is simulated by generating a 30Hz image sequence from pictures taken of a model Earth in different phases, both a physical model and a computer generated one  Figure 8. Position of the Earth in camera frame vs. phase pe rcentage.  Note: a zero on the Y axis corresponds to the algorithm not detecting a circle  Figure 9. Position step response for the controller in different sensor configura tions described in Table 2  Table 2: Step response characteristics for different sensor combinations Configuration Position Sensor Velocity Sensor Rise Time \(s Maximum Overshoot 2% Settling Time \(s a Integrated IMU IMU 0.14 16 0.69 b Camera IMU 0.20 35 1.49 c Camera Differentiated Camera 0.26 46 2.26 d Camera Differentiated Encoders 0.27 58 4.51    Figure 10. Position impulse response for the controller in different sensor configurations described in Table 2 


   7  The simulation was run using four different sensor configurations to characteri ze the benefit of using each sensor. These configurations, as well as their characteristics are shown in Table 2. In each case, a single sensor was chosen to provide the velocity feedback and another sensor was chosen to provide the position feedback. In order to better characterize the effects of a given sensor over another, sensor measuremen ts are not combined. For example, if the camera is used for position feedback and the IMU is used for velocity feedback, the IMU velocity measurements are not integrat ed to incorporate into the position estimate from the camera. For each configuration the step response is shown in Figure 9 and impulse disturbance response of falling off of a 10cm rock step is shown in Figure 10  The step and impulse responses of the system clearly show that the system performs much worse with noisy measurements and is especially sensitive to noisy velocity measurements. When the IMU is used, the system responds and settles very quickly compared to when velocity is estimated by discretely differentiating noisy position signals. This occurs because a small error in a position signal will be amplified in the velocity estimation. However whether or not the IMU is used, the system stays within the pointing requirements of 4.0 degrees when falling off of a 10cm rock  The system is also sensitive to sampling rate as evidenced by the fact that the system reacts better when using the integrated IMU signal for position instead of the direct measurement from the camera. The IMU is sampling almost 30 times faster than the camera and so the system is able to respond more quickly. However, the IMU will drift at a rate of 4.2 degrees per hour, so, if only the IMU is used for position estimation, the antenna will need to be recalibrated at least every 55 minutes  Combined Experiment  Earth tracking for the combin ed experiment was conducted using a web cam and a 2D circular "Earth" on a black background.  This is shown in Figure 11.  The camera field of view for this experiment was 30 degrees.  This experiment was designed to test general tracking accuracy and the tracking response to large movements.  In this situation, the Earth remained stationary on the background much as it would during a short period on the moon.  The camera was moved in such a way to simulate the movement of a rover moving over rocky terrain.  This motion consisted of small high frequency movements and drift with intermittent large impulses \(such as those generated by going over a rock The resulting output of this tracking was used to calculate the error in circle tracking. By looking at the output \(which included center location and radius\, we found that the variance in tracked circle vs. the diameter of the Earth \(in pixels\ was on average 8 pixels.  For a field of view of 30 degrees, this comes out to be .234 degrees of error    Figure 12: The position error from the live experiment using either the IMU for the velocity estimate or the encoders  


   8  Figure 11. View of the 2D Earth on a dark background, the tracking circle shown in black  The output was also fed back into the controller simulation to determine how the physical system would respond to real data from the camera. The resulting controller error is shown in Figure 12 with two different simulated velocity sources: the IMU and the encoders.  As expected, direct measurement of the velocity from the IMU provides up to 50% better system response compared to discretely differentiating the encoders  7. C ONCLUSIONS   This paper demonstrates a design for an S-band antenna tracking system that is able to achieve the pointing accuracy necessary for a 2 Mbps data transfer rate from the Moon to Earth while roving. Different se nsor configurations for the system were compared includ ing a fast-sampling gyro, an Earth tracking camera and on-axis encoders. The analysis shows that the system is most sensitive to sampling rate and discretization noise in velocity measurement. Therefore, the system is significantly improved with the addition of a fast sampling angular rate sensor. Furthermore, a simple Earth tracking camera using a Hough transform performs very robustly in the structured environment until the Earth surpasses 85% and would thus be an pose sensor until late in the mission   8. R ECOMMENDATIONS FOR F UTURE W ORK   The next step after the simulation is implementing the controller on the physical hardware and comparing response against the simulation. This would give real life results that would include static friction and backlash. Although the simulation included limits for the motors that simulate real life there are always unexpecte d inefficiencies that would show up on physical hardware. An extension of this paper would be to develop a similar system to stabilize the camera. The technologies in this paper could be used as camera image stabilization to create smoother better looking video while driving across the lunar surface. In order to explore the robustness of the system better characterization of earth tracking in non-ideal cases is needed. We did not do much error analysis dealing with any kind of lens flairs, sun spots or lunar terrain visible in the frame   9. A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS   We would like to thank the following people 200  Dr. George Kantor, Carnegie Mellon University 200  Erika Bannon, Carnegie Mellon University 200  Nick Miller, Carnegie Mellon University 200  Dr. David Wettergreen, Carnegie Mellon University   R EFERENCES   1  Google Lunar X Prize Rules http://www.googlelunarxprize.org  2  C.A. Vanelli, Khaled Ali, "High Gain Antenna Pointing on the Mars Exploration Rovers", Jet Propulsion Lab., California Inst. of Tech, October 10 2005; 27 pp 3  D. Bapna et al. "Antenna Pointing for High Bandwidth Communications from Mobile Robots". Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation. May 1998 4  B. Boone et al. "Optical Communications Development for Spacecraft Applications: Recent Progress at JHU/APL". IEEE Areospace Conference March 2005 5  G.P. Cantarella, and Giac omo Porcelli. \223Specifying the spacecraft bus.\224 COMSAT Technical Review 20 1990\: 309-333 6  G. Hyde, "NASA/NSF Panel Report on Satellite Communications Systems and Technology International Technology Research Institute JTEC/WTEC Program, Loyala College in Maryland July 1993 7  S. Lee, J.W. Alexander, and M. Jeganathan, "Pointing and tracking subsystem design for optical communications link between the International Space Station and ground," Free-Space Laser Communication Technologies XII,  San Jose, CA USA:  PIE, 2000, pp. 150-157 8  G. Mosier et al. "Fine Pointing Control for a Next Generation Space Telescope". Space telescopes and instruments V. Proceedings of the Conference, Kona HI; USA; 25-28 Mar. 1998. pp. 1070-1077. 1998 


   9 9  L. Godara, \223Application of antenna arrays to mobile communications. II. Beam-forming and direction-ofarrival considerations,\224 Proc eedings of the IEEE,  vol 85, 1997, pp. 1195-1245 1  J. Downs et al., "High-performance gimbal control for self-protection weapon systems," Acquisition Tracking, and Pointing XII,  Orlando, FL, USA: SPIE 1998, pp. 77-86 1  H. C. Tseng and D. W. Teo. \223Ship-mounted satellite tracking antenna with fuzzy logic control.\224 Aerospace and Electronic Systems, IEEE Transactions on 34, no 2 \(1998\: 639-645 1  B. Espiau, F. Chaumette, and P. Rives, \223A new approach to visual servoing in robotics,\224 Robotics and Automation, IEEE Transactions on,  vol. 8, 1992, pp 313-326 1  N. Andreff and P. Martinet, "Visual servoing of a Gough-Stewart parallel robo t without proprioceptive sensors," Dymaczewo, Poland: Proceedings of the Fifth International Workshop on Robot Motion and Control, 2005 1  L.P. Ellekilde et al., "Robust Control for High-Speed visual Servoing Applications," International Journal of advanced Robotic Systems, vol. 4, 2007 1  J. Sokol et al. "High Gain Antenna Gimbal for the 2003-2004 Mars Exploration Rover Program Proceedings of the 37th Aerospace Mechanisms Symposium, Johnson Space Ce nter. pp. 237-250. May 2004 1  D. Bapna, "Payload Pointing from Mobile Robots Doctoral Dissertation", T ech. Report CMU-RI-TR-9808, Robotics Institute, Carnegie Mellon University February, 1998 1  D. Ioannou, W. Huda, and A.F. Laine, \223Circle recognition through a 2D Hough Transform and radius histogramming,\224 Image and Vision Computing,  vol 17, 1999, pp. 15-26 1  D.J. Kerbyson and T.J. Atherton, \223Circle detection using Hough transform filters,\224 Image Processing and its Applications, 1995., Fifth International Conference on, 1995, pp. 370-374 1  R. Chan, \223New parallel Hough transform for circles,\224 Computers and Digital Techniques, IEE Proceedings 1991, pp. 335-344 2  Gurley Model A19 Absolute Encoder Datasheet V 208 http://www.gpi-encoders.com/PDF/A19.pdf  2  Analog Devices ADIS 16350 Tri-Axis Inertial Sensor Rev A Datasheet http://www.analog.com/UploadedFiles/Data_Sheets/A DIS16350_16355.pdf. 2007  2  N. Barbour and G. Schmidt "Inertial Sensor Technology Trends". IEEE Sensors Journal. pp. 332339. 2001 2  J. Hanse, "Honeywell MEMS Inertial Technology and Product Status". Position Location and Navigation Symposium. pp. 43-48. 2004 2  H. Choset et al. Principles of Robot Motion. MIT Press. 2005 2  J.G. Ziegler and B.M. Nichols, "Optimum Settings for Automatic Controllers". Transactions of the ASME pp. 759-768. 1942 2  J.M. Fitts, \223Aided Tracking as Applied to High Accuracy Pointing Systems.\224 Aerospace and Electronic Systems, IEEE Tran sactions on AES-9, no 3 \(1973\: 350-368. doi:10.1109/TAES.1973.309721 2  Maxon Motor 200142 Datasheet http://test.maxonmotor.com docsx/Download/catalog_ 2008/Pdf/08_202_e.pdf. 2008  Biography   Mark Desnoyer  received a B.Eng from Cornell University in Electrical and Computer Engineering in 2006. He is now a Ph.D Candidate in the Field Robotics Center at Carnegie Mellon University working on the Google Lunar X-prize. His previous work includes instrument calibration for NASA\222s Deep Impact spacecraft and a project using genetic algorithms to design and controlling self-replicating machines Kelleher Guerin received a BS in Optical Engineering from the University of Arizona in 2007.  He is currently a graduate student in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University.  His interests lie in optical systems design, vision systems for robotic applications lean space hardware design, human robotic cooperative exploration mission planning, mobile pervasive computing, human computer interaction and business development.  He has worked in as a mechanical de signer, optical engineer, web 


   10 designer and engineering consultant. He is currently the optics lead for the CMU Google Lunar X PRIZE Team under the advisement of William \223Red\224 Whittaker  


Dr Mohammad Mojarradi is an expert in developing mixedsignallmixed-voltage electronic circuits for drive and control of actuators power supplies sensors and micro-machined electromechanical interface applications He manages the development of the electronic circuits for the thermal cycle resistant electronics task for Mars Science Laboratory at JPL and leads a research consortium of universities developing electronics for extreme environments He received his Ph.D from UCLA in 1986 has twenty-five patents eighty publications and is a senior member of IEEE Prior to joining JPL he was an Associate Professor at Washington State University and the Manager of the mixed-voltagelspecialty integrated circuit group at the Xerox Microelectronics Center El Segundo CA Patrick McCluskey is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland College Park where he is associated with the CALCE Electronic Products and Systems Center He has published extensively in the area of packaging and reliability Of electronics and microsystems for high power and extreme temperature environments including two books and numerous book chapters He has also served as general or technical chairman for numerous conferences in these research areas Dr McCluskey is an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies He received his Ph.D in Materials Science and Engineeringfrom Lehigh University Benjamin J Blalock received his B.S degree in electrical engineering from The University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1991 and the M.S and Ph.D degrees also in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta in 1993 and 1996 respectively He is currently an Associate Professor in the Department Of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at The University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory ICASL His research focus there includes analog integrated circuit design for extreme environments both wide temperature and radiation on CMOS and SiGe BiCMOS multi-gate transistors and circuits on SOI analog circuit techniques for sub 100-nm CMOS mixed-signallmixed-voltage circuit design for systems-on-a-chip and biomicroelectronics Dr Blalock has co-authored over 80 refereed papers He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant Dr Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE Raymond J Garbos is VP and Chief Engineer of Aura Instrumentation Inc He is responsible for the development of advanced avionics concepts architectures and technologies for aerospace applications He has over thirty five years of circuit logic and system architecture design experience He was an Engineering Fellow for Sanders Associates 1984-8 5 Lockheed Martin 1986 2000 and BAE Systems 2001-06 He was the RL V Avionic IPT lead for Lockheed Martin and has participated in many Advanced Space Avionics Studies supporting MSFC He received BSEEIMSEM degrees from Northeastern University in 196811971 and a MAT degree from Rivier College in 2001 Leora Peltz is a scientist at Boeing Phantom Works responsible for the development and application of sensors and advanced avionics and insertion   into flight applications She has experience in evaluation and modeling of circuits and materials in extreme environments and the real-time operation of distributed architectures Leora received a PhD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 2003 Dr Michael Alles is a Research Associate Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department and the Program Manager for Commercial Systems with Vanderbilt University's Institute for Space and Defense Electronics ISDE where he works in the area of radiation effects in microelectronics He spent 2 years as a Business Unit Director for Silvaco International 10 years with Ibis Technology Corporation in product development and program management and 1 year with Harris Semiconductor as a design engineer Dr Alles has a strong background in semiconductor technology including manufacturing and metrology computer-aided design tools for semiconductor fabrication processes devices and integrated circuit design and expertise in modeling and simulation of radiation effects in semiconductor devices and circuits Dr Alles has served on the SIA ITRS starting materials working group since 1999 serving as chairman of the SOI materials group for the 2001 revision of ITRS and has been a reviewer for Transactions on Nuclear Science several times He has over 40 technicalltrade publications and 2 patents Dr Alles received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering 12192 MS in Electrical Engineering 8190 11 


and his B.E in Electrical Engineering with a Double Major in Physics 5187 allfrom Vanderbilt University Dr Alles present research focus is in the application of advanced and emerging semiconductor technologies in radiation environments R Wayne Johnson is a Samuel Ginn Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Auburn University and Director of the Laboratory for Electronics Assembly and Packaging LEAP At Auburn he has established teaching and research laboratories for advanced packaging and electronics manufacturing His research efforts are focused on the materials processing and reliability aspects of electronics manufacturing Current projects include lead free electronics assembly mixed leadfree and Sn/Pb electronics assembly wafer level packaging flip chip assembly assembly of ultra thin Si die 30,um and electronics packagingfor extreme environments 2300C to 4850C Wayne was the 1991 President of the International Society for Hybrid Microelectronics ISHM He received the 1993 John A Wagnon Jr Technical Achievement Award from ISHM was named a Fellow of the Society in 1994 and received the Daniel C Hughes Memorial Award in 1997 He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and a member of the Surface Mount Technology Association SMTA and IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries He is currently a member of the IEEE Components Packaging and Manufacturing Technology CPMT Society Board of Governors and Vice President of Publications He is also Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing He has published 58 journal papers 140 conference papers 6 book chapters and co-edited one book on electronics packaging and electronics manufacturing He has also presented a number of invited talks Wayne holds one U.S patent Wayne received the B.E and MSc degrees in 1979 and 1982 from Vanderbilt University Nashville TN and the Ph.D degree in 1987 from Auburn University Auburn AL all in electrical engineering 12 


11 Xiao Yang L Haizhon S Choi 2004 Protection and Guarantee for Video and Voice Traffic in IEEE 802.1 le Wireless LANs INFOCOM 2004 Twenty-third Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communication Societies Volume 3 Issue 7-11 21522162 12 W Spearman J Martin A Distributed Adaptive Algorithm for QoS in 802.1 le Wireless Networks Proceedings of the 2007 International Symposium on Performance Evaluation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems SPECTS'07 San Diego CA July 2007 pp 379-386 13 Lim L.W Malik R Tan P.Y Apichaichalermwongse C Ando K Harada Y Panasonic Singapore Labs A QoS Scheduler for IEEE 802.1l e WLANs Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2004 pp 199-204 14 V Vleeschauwer J Janssen G Petit and F Poppe Quality bounds for packetized voice transport Alcatel Tech Rep 1st Quarter 2000 15 ITU Series H Audiovisual and Multimedia Systems Infrastructure of audiovisual services Coding of moving video H.264 03/2005 International Telecommunication Union 12 BIOGRAPHY cooperative signal received his B.S Engineering from respectively processing and sensor networks He M.S and Ph.D degree in Electrical UCLA in 1993 1995 and 2000 Will Spearman is a Master's Candidate at Clemson University's School of Computing His work focuses on QoS in 802.cle and wireless networks His background includes a B.S in Psychology with a minor focus in Computer Science He currently is employed at Network Appliance Inc Dr Jim Martin is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing at Clemson University His research interests include broadband access autonomic computing Internet protocols and network performance analysis He has received funding from NASA the Department of Justice BMW IBM and Cisco Dr Martin received his Ph.D from North Carolina State University Prior to joining Clemson Dr Martin was a consultant for Gartner and prior to that a software engineer for IBM Jay Gao joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in 2001 and is currently a senior research staff in the Communications Networks Group in the Telecommunication Research and Architecture section His research is primarily focused on space-based wireless communications and networking with emphasis on applications for the Mars Network He is currently conducting research for developing quality-of-service QoS protocols for the envisioned Interplanetary Network IPN and study optimization and protocols for deep space Ka-band communications He also supports requirements definition and interface design activities for the Department of Defense's Transformational Communications MilSatcom project and system engineering effort for NASA's Exploration System and Mission Directorate ESMD supporting the Constellation Program for return of human to the Moon and Mars Other research interests include optical-based sensorweb discrete event simulation of distributed communication/sensor systems energy efficient routing and self-organization algorithm for 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


