  1 Lunar Relay Satellite Capabilities via Re-Use of Delivery Vehicle Modules Vonda H. Miller, Ph.D., Charles G. Dusold, Mike Fraietta Ross L.McHenry The Boeing Company 13100 Space Center Blvd Houston, Texas 77059 281-226-6994 vonda.h.miller@boeing.com  Abstract 227Lunar communications can be problematic for mission success when trading multiple objectives such as reduced mass, landing trajectory, and the need for communication with other orbiting vehicles and ground stations.  To this end, reusability of existing vehicle components for purposes other than the original intent is an enticing option.  In the case of Constellation, the Ares 
upper stage instrument unit avionics IUA has promise for re-use as a lunar relay satellite.  The guidance, navigation and control GNC avionics along with the electrical power system can be re-used to position the IUA into a suitable lunar orbit for use as a relay The IUA can be inserted into a medium lunar orbit via re-use of the earth departure stage EDS for the lunar orbit insertion LOI burn.  Additionally the descent module from the Altair can be re-used as either a beacon on the lunar surface or as a relay node for surface operations.  The ascent module can be reconfigured and reused as an orbiting relay satellite.  The re-use of these modules would greatly improve the effective delivered mass.  This specific instan ce of re-use improves the following mission objectives a\y via improved situational awaren 
ess, b visibility of NASA\222s lunar mission, and c\igher volume of data for scientific discovery We present an architecture for re-use of modules to populate a lunar communications satellite system 12  T ABLE OF C ONTENTS  1  I NTRODUCTION 1  2  E ARTH D EPARTURE S TAGE L UNAR O RBIT I NSERTION 
2  3  D ESCENT M ODULE AS A B EACON 4  4  A SCENT M ODULE AS A C OMMUNICATIONS S ATELLITE 4  5  I NTEGRATED M ODULAR A VIONICS 5  6  C ONCLUSIONS 5 
 R EFERENCES 6  B IOGRAPHY 7  1  I NTRODUCTION  Communications during lunar exploration is vital to mission success.  NASA\222s constellation program consists of many stages and vehicles.  The Orion is the crew vehicle. It is in lunar orbit while the crew is in the Altair or on the surface 1  1 978-1-4244-2622-5/09 25.00 \2512009 IEEE 2 IEEEAC paper#1082, Version 2, Updated Oct. 31, 2008 of the moon. The Altair is the lunar lander vehicle.  Its 
function is to land on the lunar surface and to ascent and rendezvous with the orbiting Or ion.  Once the crew returns to the Orion from the surf ace of the moon, the ascent module of the Altair lunar lander is expended and the Orion returns to the earth.  NASA has proposed the Shackleton crater as the landing site for the Altair missions which is very near the lunar South Pole.   Communication coverage from the rim of the Shackleton crater is very good with respect to the earth, but full coverage from the Altair and the Orion remains problematic to the lunar base sites.  Also NASA has suggested that they would ultimately like to have HDTV bandwidth to enhance public support for the lunar missions. Several lunar communication studies have been done on bandwidth requirements and links to the earth    In general t h e st udi es focus on rel a y i ng dat a t o eart h  
stations using the deep space network DSN and communication relays from satellites [2 Ad d itio n ally there are studies recommending protocols required for the networks using CCSDS protocol for video and for voice   es are consistent with current international space stati on communication protocols including video and voice data protocols.  The need for communication with the Orion and Altair crew is paramount for safety.  Since the trajector y of the landing vehicle Altair and the lunar orbiting Orion on the non-earth facing side of the moon results in communications outage with the earth the natural choice for alleviating that outage is a communication satellite constellation around the moon Bhasin and Hayden have proposed several lunar satellite constellations for communications.  Their investigation involves a complete space network between the earth and its 
neighboring planets and the moon.  They have proposed large satellites in medium moon orbit, communication relay satellites in earth-moon halo orbits, and small satellites in low moon orbit.  The problem with a lunar communication satellite system is the billion dollars required to build such a constellation.  Schier et al. have estimated $1.25 billion for two lunar relays in a polar elliptical orbit focused on coverage at the South Polar Region   They  ci t e  t h at  similar coverage is possible with the polar circular constellation but at higher cost due to the requirement of three satellites in one plane.  This paper addresses a possible 


  2 EDS, LSAM Orion 100 km Low Lunar Orbit Low Earth Orbit MOON MOON EARTH EARTH Figure 1a. Vehicle stages from earth to lunar surface and back to earth.  In this section of the figure from Connolly cite reference, we see the EDS/LSAM on the Ares V and the Orion on the Ares I and their insertion into low earth orbit Taken from Connolly  method to greatly reduce that cost through re-use of the expended vehicle sections fo r placement into the medium moon orbital proposed by Bhasin and Hayd   They  recommended a constellation of 8 communications satellites in two orbital planes, one polar and one equatorial at >2000 km altitude to provide nearly 24/7 coverage between the earth and lunar surface and be tween the locations on lunar surface.  Only 3 equally spaced satellites are required for total coverage in each orbita l plane.  The additional two satellites are backup satellites in the event of failure.  Our study presents the additional mass requirements for a\ng the Earth Departure Stage EDS as a satellite b\ using the ascent module as a satellite c\module as a beacon on the lunar surface Ascent Stage Expended LSAM Perf orm s Lunar Orbi t Insertion Vehicles are not to scale Direct Entry Land Landing Earth Departure Stage \(EDS Expended Servi ce Modul e Expended Figure 1b. Vehicle stages from earth to lunar surface and back to earth.  In this section of the figure from Connolly cite reference, we see the Orion placed into low earth orbit rendezvous between Orion and EDS/LSAM, the LSAM/Orion lunar orbit insertion, the lunar landing of Altair, the ascent module and Orion rendezvous, and the CEV return to earth.. Taken from Connolly   2  E ARTH D EPARTURE S TAGE L UNAR O RBIT I NSERTION  The earth departure stage \(EDS\he Orion are launched separately to low earth orbit LEO as seen in figure 1a.  The two spacecraft then rendezvous in preparation for trans lunar insertion \(TLI\h departure stage EDS is expended after the TLI burn as seen in figure 1b Traditionally, the EDS has either been placed into one of the earth-sun Lagrangian orbits or crashed into the lunar surface.  Since the EDS is al ready on its way to the lunar surface after the TLI burn and separation from the Orion we investigated the delta-v required to insert the expended EDS and the attached instrume nt avionics unit IAU into a polar lunar orbit and an equatorial orbit for re-use as a communications satellite.  These orbits were selected based on the analysis done by Bhasin and Hayd They report  


  3 24/7 communication coverage between the earth and the lunar surface from 3 satellites placed in an equatorial orbit and 3 placed in the polar orbit at an altitude that he labeled medium moon orbit at >2000 km altitude An algorithm developed by B ond and Gottleib was used to calculate the orbit followi  The eart h t o-m oon trajectories were computed via the Wilson pseudostate approach which has been shown to be more accurate than patched conic algorithms In addi t i on, t h e pseudost a t e  results can be calibrated to obtain precision trajectories. In this case the calibration was performed using the Bond and Gottlieb 14 element special pe rturbation method, also known as BG14  BG14 is a powerful method whereby the differential equations of motion are linearized and regularizing to rem e regularization is a two step process. The first step transforms the independent variable from time to fictitious time \(via the Sundmann transformation\while the second step embeds the energy integral. This approach leads to a fast and accurate method that is ideal for long term propagation with large steps Finally, the method is also said to be uniform in that it is valid for any orbit type  NASA has published the vehicle parameters for the EDS and the Ori The rel e vant param e t e rs for our calculations are as follows EDS TLI burn at 100 nmi circular orbit 28.5 degrees inclination and burn duration 309 seconds EDS mass post-TLI following separation is 25,077 kg EDS engine Isp is 449 The rocket equation was used to get an estimate for the change in mass required for the delta-vs. Using the published values from NASA for the engine Isp, the earth parking orbit of the EDS and the Orion and the TLI burn along with the algorithms deve loped by Bond and Gottleib we arrived at the following delta-vs seen in table 1 and the associated increase in prope llant mass per the rocket equati   Table 1. Delta-vs for lunar orbit insertion into equatorial and polar orbits at 2000 km altitude. LOI is the lunar insertion orbit, PC is a 10 degree plane change at apolune CIRC is a burn to change to a circular orbit and TOT is the total delta-v.  These are all calculated based on impulsive burns and a TLI date of April 25, 2018   Equatorial Polar LOI 275 m/s 698 m/s PC 15 m/s  CIRC 440 m/s  TOT 730 m/s 698 m/s Additional Propellant Mass 4531 kg 9990 lbm 4316 kg 9516 lbm  The additional propellant mass is only based on the calculated delta-v for the LOI of the EDS and does not include a subsequent TLI cour se correction required due to the separation of the EDS and the Orion.  The analysis was also not extended into the pr evious stages to calculate additional propellant required fo r injecting this added mass into the parking orbit or for the TLI burn.  Given an overall mass allocation of 517,000 lbm for th t h i s woul d increase the EDS mass to 526,990 lbm in the worst case This is 1.93% of the total mass.  Further analysis on the preceding impacted stages woul d need to be conducted to determine the increase to liftoff mass.  Also, the overall mission staging should be investigated to determine when the best windows of opportunity would be with regard to cargo versus sortie versus manned missions, but this initial result shows some promise as a possible method for building a cost effective lunar satellite communications network The transponder avionics and antenna systems for the communications relay would add an estimated 200 kg of mass.  Also, solar panels and batteries would be required to power the electronics.  Solar panels can be added inside the IUA that are deployable afte r the Orion separates from the EDS.  The solar panels would add 25 kg of mass per 4 kW of power.  Four kW of power would be enough for the avionics, but further analysis is required to estimate all power needs.  While the satellite is on the dark side of the moon, batteries would be required to run the avionics Lithium polymer batteries provide 200 W per kg and nickelmetal hydride provide 80 W per kg.  The disadvantage of the lithium polymer batteries is their lifetime which is only 3 years.  The guidance, navigation and control GNC avionics system from the IUA ring could be re-used to provide measurements on when to do the burn and to monitor the trajectory.  The additional mass from the transponder avionics, the solar arrays and the batteries is orders of magnitude smaller than the additional propellant mass.  The most notable constraint after the mass of the propellant is considered would be the available space inside 


  4 the IUA ring for the deployable solar arrays, batteries, and additional transponder gear.  Fu rther investigation should be conducted to determine the additional stowage area and its impact upon the size of the IUA ring Another constraint to consider is whether the satellite would require adjustments to maintain th e circular orbit.  Roeser et al. have investigated this issue and suggested using pulsed plasma thrust They recom m e nded an addi t i onal  7585 kg for the total electrical propulsion system.  However Ely and Lieb have investigated the effects of solar radiation pressure in addition to the gravitational forces on the satellites and have shown that lunar circular orbits for South Pole coverage have a 10 year life without interventi  They also investigated several elliptical orbits which do not degrade even when solar radia tion pressure is considered Another concern would be attitude control of the satellite An additional reaction control system \(RCS\must be considered.  The mass of the RCS is very minimal \(a few kg at most\ the additional propellant needs to be calculated.  If the satellite is constantly spinning about the axis aligned with the orbital plane coupled with solar array joints to align the arrays with the sun normal vector minimal attitude control would be required and therefore minimal additional propellant.  Given the results of the orbital maintenance investigations, either the elliptical orbits could be considered, additional plasma pulsed thrusters could be added, or the cons tellation could be re-populated within the 10 year life time From this initial assessment, a constellation from expended EDS is plausible 3  D ESCENT M ODULE AS A B EACON  A very obvious re-use of expende d vehicles is the re-use of the descent module as a beacon upon the lunar surface Carson in 1968 investigated the improved performance of the navigation system with a lunar beacon added to the earth-based measurements for determination of the orbital  found 91 percent improvement in the navigation error when two beacons were used and both range and range rate were estimated from the beacons.  The other use of the descent module would be as a communications transponder.  Additional avionics, solar arrays, and ba tteries would be required and trade studies should be done to investigate the impact upon mass which is expected to be very small as compared to overall vehicle structure and propellant. Any increased stowage for avionics or power systems would impact the vehicle size.  All of these additional mass considerations should be factored into an an alysis from the initial insertion into low earth orbit LEO through the entire lunar mission design.  The same tools used for calculating the delta-v required for EDS LOI could be used to analyze the effects of the complete suite of mass additions including the mass from increasing the size of the structure for avionics and power system 4  A SCENT M ODULE AS A C OMMUNICATIONS S ATELLITE  The ascent module is expended after rendezvous with the Orion as seen in Figure 1b.  The ascent module contains GNC avionics, batteries a nd communication gear.  The avionics upgrade would be similar to the transponder upgrade required for EDS.  NASA has published the vehicle parameters for the Altair ascent modul  The rel e vant  parameters for our calculations are as follows Ascent module rendezvous and docks with Orion at 100 km circular orbit Ascent module mass is 5075  kg Ascent module engine Isp is 449 The rocket equation was used to estimate the increased propellant mass.  Using the orbital parameters from Bhasin and Hayden along with simple orbital transfer calculations the following delta-vs seen in table 2 were calculated The additional propellant mass is only based on the calculated delta-v for the plane changes from the Orion orbit to the satellite orbit.  The analysis was not extended into the previous stages to calculate additional propellant required for injecting this added mass into the parking orbit or for the TLI burn, LOI, descent to the lunar surface and ascent to the Orion orbital plan e.  These values are much smaller than the increase in propellant mass for inserting the EDS into MMO. However, wh en considering the ascent module, the 3095 kg additional mass in the case of the equatorial orbit for the 5075kg ascent module is approximately 60%.  This initial result is not as promising as using the expended EDS fo r populating the lunar satellite constellation. For the polar orbit things may be more promising with an approximate increase of 10% mass for the ascent module.  Whether this is feasible or not requires analysis of all the preceding st ages.  In this case the liftoff mass is not as significant of an impact.  One of the critical phases to assess would be the increase in propellant for the ascent from the lunar surface and the descent stage Another concern would be attitude control of the satellite In this case the ascent module already has RCS. When considering the additional mass and structural changes to accommodate a transponder, solar arrays and batteries for a much smaller vehicle the Ascent module should only be considered for the case of insertion into the polar orbit     


  5 Table 2. Delta-vs for lunar orbit transfer from the Orion polar orbit at 100 km altitude into equatorial and polar circular orbits at 2000 km altitude.  HT is the minimum energy Hohmann transfer between two in-plane circular orbits.  PC is the 90 degree plane change at 2000 km. TOT is the total delta-v Equatorial Polar HT 473.3 m/s 473.3 m/s PC 1620 m/s TOT 2093.3 m/s 473.3 m/s Additional Propellant Mass 3095 kg 6824 lbm 576 kg 1272 lbm 5  I NTEGRATED M ODULAR A VIONICS  In selecting an Integrated Modular Avionics \(IMA approach to constellation avionics development NASA will not only realize improved logistics through the use of common avionics assemblies and subassemblies but will also provide the capability to reconfigure avionics for alternate uses.  The most obvious example of reuse of avionics is in the Lunar Module ascent module.  This module will have communications equipment, command and data handling capabilities, guidance navigation and control as well as the various utilities necessary for a relay satellite Upon completion of the primary mission of returning the astronauts to the Orion vehicle for return to earth, the Orion can initiate a time triggered reconfiguration algorithm Upon separation the Altair ascent module would wait for a period of time allowing for Orion to leave lunar vicinity The Altair would then begin to reprogram the avionics for optimized performance as a relay satellite.  This can be accomplished using programming fully resident in the avionics system or can begin with a \223boot\224 set of software that would acquire the new software over a link from Earth The use of phased arrays on the Altair would reduce the need for attitude control of the vehicle.  The software would need to configure the arrays for the appropriate lunar to satellite or earth to satellite links depending on orientation Memory not used for program execution could be reused for store and forward of information between the earth and lunar nodes.  The operation of the avionics would need to be tuned to minimize need for thermal control and power consumption Since the Altair is currently designed for battery power there will need to be solar cells incorporated to maintain charge on the batteries.  By minimizing power consumption the size and mass of the solar cells will also be minimized To incorporate this philosophy to the Ares V instrument unit additional changes would be necessary.  The vehicle telemetry antennas may be used however it may be advantageous to integrate a mesh reflector in the ring.  This would require an earth inertial flight attitude since the antenna would be fixed across the ring pointing out of the ring.  By spinning the IU Avionics Ring at a slow rate the earth inertial attitude can be maintained with little attitude control.  By making the mesh an tenna nearly the diameter of the ring the antenna gain would be very large allowing for a lower powered RF amplifier.  The vehicle telemetry antennas would be used for communications relay to the lunar surface.  Again solar cells would need to be added to provide power to the system.  By incorporating this approach to the first mission NASA could realize a two satellite lunar relay constellation at the end of the first manned mission to the moon.  Adding it to the lunar precursor missions could realize a larger constellation at the start of the manned missions 6  C ONCLUSIONS  We have demonstrated that th e effective delivered mass of three different expended modules of the lunar vehicle may be significantly increased vi a re-use.  We have also demonstrated that it may be possible to build a lunar satellite system as a part of the nominal lunar missions without separate missions to populate the lunar satellite constellation.  The increased cost in vehicle mass and structure to deliver additional propellant and to provide stowage for avionics should be investigated.  Our expectation is that further analysis would support the posit that via a modest impact to mission staging over several lunar missions, a lunar satellite constellation could be populated and this cost would not approach the $1.25 billion estimated by Schier et al to build a lunar satellite constellation  If indeed it is possible to build a lunar communications satellite constellation using expended vehicle modules communication outages would not be a factor in crew activities and operations.  Overall communication throughput would be dramatically improved.  In current space operations especially those involving the crew communications outages are a nuisance that must be dealt with and planned around.  As a result of eliminating communication outages, crew safety will be significantly improved.  The amount of science and telemetry data will also be increased which is the purpose of the lunar exploration missions.  Better quality video is possible with the higher overall bandwidth and throughput which will directly elicit public support  Mission staging would have to be carefully planned in order to integrate the lunar constellation build-up along side the 


  6 manned missions.  If only the EDS is used for populating the satellite constellation, it would require six lunar missions to generate total 24/7 communication coverage between the lunar surface, Orion and the earth.  If the ascent module is used as well, the constellation could be built in half the time. Not all of the missions would be manned missions such as the cargo missions.  These non-manned missions could be used to populate some of the satellites and provide improved coverage before the initial manned missions take place  If the lifetime of the satellite constellation is considered to be 10 years, then it may be possible to not add low power electro-propulsion engines for orbit adjustments.  Of course trajectory analysis should be done to determine where and when these satellites would eventually impact the lunar surface.  If the lunar mission demands a greater than 10 year lifetime of the constellation, then further analysis would provide the specifications for ion engine sizing, solar arrays and batteries.  From preliminary studies done by Roeser et al., the increase in mass was on th   Several challenges remain to assess the total impact of the increased propellant and vehicle stowage area.  It will require investigation along-side many subsystem teams such as the vehicle and structures group to gather the data and formulate the trade studies.  However, the initial assessment based on calculating the required propellant for mass delivery into the medium moon orbit is promising.  Overall the EDS appears to be the mo st cost effective expended vehicle module for the equatorial orbit and the ascent module appears to be the best choice for the polar orbit population R EFERENCES    B h asi n K., Hay d en, J. Devel opi ng Archi t ect ure and Technologies for an Evolvable NASA Space Communication Infrastructure,  NASA/TM\2272004213108, AIAA-2004-3253 , pp. 1-12, July 2004 2 i er, J.S., Ru sh J.J., W illiam s, W  D., an d Vro t so s P Space Communication Architecture Supporting Exploration and Science: Plans and Studies for 20102030, AIAA 2005-2517 1 st Space Exploration Conference: Continuing the Voyage of Discovery, pp. 133, February 2005  W i l s on Jr., S.W Invest i g at i on of R ecursi v e Pseudost a t e  Iteration Procedures for Solving Split Boundary Value Problems Associated with In terplanetary Trajectories MSC/TRW Task A-516, pp. 1-43, May 1971  Bond V.R., Gottlieb, R.G., A Perturbed Two-body Element Method Utilizing the Jacobian Integral, Mission Support Directorate Mission Planning and Analysis Division, JSC-23495, pp. 1-1 to 5-3, May 1989  Deitsch, L.J., Statm a n, J.I Noreen G.K Low Cost Communication Support of Lunar Missions, NASA XX fill this in, pp. 1-6, Month, 200X   Hanson, T., M a rkl e y R C o m m uni cat i ons R e qui rem e nt s for the First Lunar Outpost, NASA XX fill this in, pp. 1-4 Month, 200X  Hanson, T., M a rkl e y R A Proposed C o m m uni cat i ons Architecture for the First Luna r Outpost, IEEE fill this in pp. 929-933, Month, 1993   Sum r all P., Ares V Overview, AIAA 3 rd Space Exploration Conference, pp. 1-9, February 2008  Roeser, H.P.,  Auweter-Kurtz, M., W a gner, H.P Laufer R., Phajsky, S., Wegmann, T., Huber, F. Challenges and innovative technologies for a low cost lunar mission, Acta Astronautica, 59, pp. 1048-1051, 2005 10 Ely, T.A., Lieb E., Co n s tellatio n s o f Ellip tical In clin ed  Lunar Orbits Providing Polar and Global Coverage AIAA AAS/AIAA Astrodynamics Specialists Conference, AAS 05-343, pp. 1-16, August 2005  C a rson, T.M Lunar B eacons  A Prel i m i n ary  Look at  their Position Estimation and their use in Lunar Orbit Estimation, NASA TM X-1529, March 1968  Sum ral l P., Ares V Overvi ew, Ares V Ast ronom y  Workshop, pp. 1-26   Dorris, C., Altair Project, AIAA 3 rd Space Exploration Conference, pp. 1-14, February 2008 


  7  C onnol l y J., Ki cki n 222 up Dust AIAA NASA W o rkshop Houston, Texas  pp. 1-26, February, 2007 B IOGRAPHY   Vonda Miller is a digital systems lead for the International Space Station communications and tracking group for the Boeing Company. She has led the external control zone group responsible for the solar array and the radiator control system and also the Guidance Navigation and Control group for the International Space Station.  She previously worked for Texas Instruments on the B-2 cruise missile guidance system.  She has also worked extensively in the area of digital signal processing pattern recognition and neural networks research while she was a Texas Space Grant Fellow at the University of Houston.  She received a B.S.C.S.  from Lamar University an M.S.E.E and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of Houston     Mr. DuSold has 26-years of engineering and management experience with responsibilities ranging from managing field engineering offices to Engineering Management for a major NASA Space Station subsystem He is currently the Senior Manager for the Houston International Space Station Avionics Systems with responsibility for ISS Communications and Command and Data Handling.  For the last two years Mr. DuSold has lead preliminary design efforts for an avionics upgrade for the payload communications systems on the ISS.  He has roles in both the Boeing Ares I and Altair Avionics teams providing guidance to the core engineering teams.  Mr DuSold also leads two IRAD efforts, one to develop a hardware in the loop simulation lab for the future Altair Lunar Lander missions, the other project is associated with reconfigurable avionics for future NASA missions.  He received a BSEE from the University of Pittsburgh Mike Fraietta has 26 years experience in providing software and analysis support for space and ground systems operations Programs include: Space Shuttle, Space Station, Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous Iridium and Orbital Express. He received a B.S. in physics from Manhattan College and an M.S. in physical science from the University of Houston R. Leroy McHenry has worked extensively in space flight mission planning and on-board guidance, navigation and control algorithms spanning the Apollo and Shuttle programs.  He is retired from NASA and since that time has worked for Draper Labs, Lockheed Martin and is presently with the Boeing Company.  He has a B.S. in Mathematics and an M.S. in Statistics from UHCL    


time/second position error/m   time/second position error/m   time/second position error/m   estimated system error 100 10  8 white noise, see in figure 14 The following is the results of combine orbit determination with compensation  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 x 10 4 30 20 10 20 30     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 x 10 4 60 40 20 40 60     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 x 10 4 100 150     10 20 100 50 Cross track  Cross track  Cross track  OC residual with compensation   Fig.18 Residual error of combine orbit determination with compensation method       Fig.19 Statistic results of combine orbit determination with no compensation      Fig.20 Statistic results of combine orbit determination with compensation  5.2 Analysis of the Results It can be conclud that the traditional LSE combine orbit determination cannot estimate the dynamic model error\(see the OC residual in the figure 14, the residual is system noise\e combine orbit determination can restrain the SBV ephemeris error, but the LEO dynamic model error cannot yet be estimated. By analyzing the OC residual error the position error caused by dynamic model error can be estimated, and the dynamic model error or the perturbation force model error can be got by differentialing it. Thus add this force model estimated to the state function again, then the precision of model can be improved. As a result, the sample data OC residual error/ arc sec 0 0 0 0   tradtional OCresidual 30 Radial Along Track   Fig.15 SBV satellite1 orbit determination results of combine method with compensation  Radial Along Track   Fig.16 SBV satellite2 orbit determination results of combine method with compensation  Radial Along Track   Fig.17 LEO satellite orbit determination results of combine method with compensation   40 80 50 0 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 20 10 20 30 40 50 


 9 compensation method can restrain the dynamic model error so the precision of orbit determination for LEO and SBV can get improved together 6  C ONCLUSION  The space based observation technology will be predominant in the next gene ration of space surveillance although it has been successful through MSX satellite, there still many key technoogies to be solved, such as the system error of space based satellite platform, the dynamic model error of the space object, the r eal time tracking method, the debris\222s auto identif iability and so on. This paper proposed an operational method of solving the above question with combine orbit determination based on compensation method. Combine orbit determination task is a very colossal project requiring very pivotal and basic technology, so, the work in the paper is just a small part of it. There is still a lot work for further research 226 R EFERENCE   J ay ant  Sharm a  Grant  H. St okes, C u rt von B r aun, et al  Toward Operational Space-based Space Surveillance Lincoln laboratory journal,13\(2\309-336, 2002  R Space Based Satellite Tracking And Characterization Utilizing Non-imaging Passive Sensors Air Force Institute of Technology, March, 2008  h eim  Advanced Electro-optical Space-Based Systems for Missile Aerospace Corporation , \(TR-2001\(8556-1  u W  I Bertiger et al First Assessm ent of GPS-based Reduced Dynamic Orbiter Determination on Topex/Poseidon. Geophysics Research Letter \(S00947\ 541-544, 1994  W u S C T P Yunck, C L Thornt on R e duced-dy n am i c  technique for precise orbit determination of low earth satellites. Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics S0371-5090\ 24-30, 1991 6]Svehla D, Rothacher M. Ki nematic and reduced-dynamic precise orbit determination of low earth orbiters Advances in Geosciences \(S1680-7340\ 47-56, 2002  B ock H Effi ci ent m e t hods for det e rm i n i ng preci se orbi t s  of low earth orbiters using the Global Positioning System Berne, Switzerland: Astronomical Institute of University of Berne, 2003  G rant H. St okes, C u rt von B r aun, R a m a swam y Sri dharan et al. The Space-Based Vi sible Program. Lincoln laboratory journal,11\(2\205-234, 1998  W F B u rnham F.E. M o rt on, Jr., R Sri dharan, H.E.M  Viggh, A.J. Wiseman, and G.R. Zollinger, Mission Planning for Space-Based Su rveillance with the SpaceBased Visible Sensor, J. Guid. Control Dyn. 23 \(1  W e n Yuanl a n. The research on t h e t h eory  of robust  determination of spacecraft precision orbit and its application .Institute of Surveying and Mapping Information Engineering University , 2001  Zhang Fei p eng. R e search on PR AR E and i t s  appl i cat i on to precise ERS22 orbit determination . Shanghai Astronomical Observatory ,CAB ,2000 B IOGRAPHY  Pan Xiaogang is a student of National University of Defense Technology, He received the Bachelor\222s Degree in application mathematics in 2003 from Yantai University and the Master\222s Degree in application mathematics in 2006 from National University of Defense Technology. Now he is a doctor candidate in application mathematics of the National University of Defense Technology. His research focuses on space based tracking telemetry and command technology and spacecraft orb it autonomous determination  


C  Setpoints Severity 1 00 F 10 Faults Valve Fault with Leakage QM.111614r Faults Leakage A _ S:Alarat pexom uFs  bgs e veri Ty I c x;mpov inw Faults Gear Fault with Leakage Aftn ir-in lr Gear Cavitation Valve Fault Figure 17 PHM validation 10    F 1 o  m fifi fifi i,,ii    l...l.....l i X jjj  MIllWllll!!li!"l!!ii-X11l  1  RMt 1       i iu!H   l ar lll Z      z xs0    rl    0 0 a x 1C o 0.75.r  0.5 0 en  psIl 6 GPM Confidence the setup and the results of the PHM routines in the form of the severities of the various faults were compared to the actual seeded faults Figure 17 displays some of these results at various temperature pressure and flow setpoints As the figure shows the seeded faults were successfully detected by the PHM algorithms As seen from the figure the severity of the leakage fault reduces with increasing flow This is because the valve was opened by a fixed amount to seed the leakage fault thus causing roughly the same amount of leakage flow each time Thus the leakage flow as a fraction of the flow through the test section is lower as the flow setpoint is increased Seeded Fault Progression Figure 16 Evolutionary Prognostics As Figure 16 shows the DXS algorithm begins tracking the path of the features through feature space as soon as observations of the feature values become available At any point of time the algorithm may be used to predict the subsequent path of the features This is indicated in Figure 16 by the blue cone marked DXS Forecast This cone may approach the functional failure regions for one or more faults on the system The time interval over which the current feature set evolves as predicted by the DXS algorithm into a feature set indicative of failure then indicates the time to failure as shown in Figure 16 PHM Validation The PHM routines were validated with additional experimental data from the FSTB Faults were seeded into Seeded Faults None 120 F 10 psi 6 GPM _ Confidence 120 F 40 0.75 X 0.5 l X0.25 Leakage Gear Cavitation Valve Leakage Fault Seeded 0.250L h  _ be veri Ty l  I U Leakage Gear Cavitation Valve Leakage Gear Cavitation Valve Fault Fault Seeded  l 111 llM 1 i ii iiI II1  I  o a 100poFnts2 SeG _ Cnverny 0 1 00 F 25 psi 12 GPM M Confidence  0.75075 2602 m 2m T U 


Real-time Implementation and Demonstration The authors have developed a software Graphical User Interface GUI to enable real-time implementation of the PHM analysis techniques described in this paper A screenshot of this GUI is shown in Figure 18 Figure 18 Screenshot of real-time implementation interface The interface allows the user to control the flow temperature and pressure setpoints to the setup The user may choose to view the feedback signals from the setup or as shown in Figure 18 to observe the results of the PHM analysis These PHM results are computed on-the-fly using real-time sensor data from the setup The interface allows the seeding of software faults such as gear and valve faults into the setup The PHM results shown in the figure include health indices and mean times to failure and confidences thereof for the pump and valve as well as the actual and model-predicted flow pressure and RPM signals The parameters obtained from the model-based analysis are also displayed along with the baseline values of these parameters In addition the interface has indicators to alert the user to certain critical faults in the setup such as gear damage and cavitation which might require immediate shutdown and maintenance on the setup 5 CONCLUSIONS Gas turbine engine accessory components such as pumps valves and actuators create a majority of the maintenance issues in aircraft gas turbine systems A combination of model-based and data-driven approaches was implemented to address the problem of predicting and forecasting the health of these accessory components Experimental data were collected on a test setup representative of aircraft fuel and lubrication systems and these data were used to train a developed model of the system as well as data-driven routines The model-based routines yielded features that uniquely correlated to pump and valve faults The datadriven routines yielded a feature which picked out pump cavitation There was a one-to-one correspondence between the developed features and the faults indicated by these features The routines were validated with additional experimental data from the FSTB setup The authors have also developed evolutionary prognostics routines based on the DXS algorithm for the purpose of trending and tracking the progress of fault features in feature space In addition a demonstration interface was developed to enable real-time implementation of the developed techniques These techniques constitute a significant initial step towards addressing the issue of on-board diagnostics and prognostics for gas turbine accessory components 6 FUTURE WORK Work will continue to streamline the developed PHM routines and to develop data fusion routines to merge the results of model-based and data-driven algorithms The applicability of the developed PHM algorithms may be extended to a variety of gas turbine engine fluid systems such as engine compressor and nozzle systems starting systems and Auxiliary Power Units APUs and fuel and lube systems Engine fluid system reliability data may be included to improve the fidelity of the PHM algorithms in predicting impending failures and Remaining Useful Life RUL given current health status and envisioned use In addition dedicated PHM system prototypes may be developed for fuel and lubrication system health assessment and these prototypes may be tested on OEM test cells 7 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work has significantly benefited from the invaluable support and technical input from the Wright Patterson Air Force Base The authors would also like to acknowledge financial support for this work provided through the Air Force Small Business Innovative Research SBIR program In addition we would like to recognize the contributions of our colleague Matthew Smith 8 REFERENCES 1 DUSD\(LMR CBM+Memorandum November 2002 Available at Defense Acquisition Guidebook 2 Department of Defense Web site DoD Instruction 5.2 3.,9,2,,asp3.9.2 3 Pratt and Whitney Web site ht pr 4 J Rhoades JSF System Development and Demonstration CodeOne Magazine 17 2002 Available on-line at 11 


5 U.S Air Force Web site 6 Jelali M and A Kroll Hydraulic Servo-systems Modeling Identification and Control London Springer-Verlag 2003 7 F.M White Fluid Mechanics 4th ed New York McGraw Hill 2000 8 Roemer M Ghiocel D A Probabilistic Approach to the Diagnosis of Gas Turbine Engine Faults 9 BIOGRAPHY Carl S Byington is a Professional Engineer and the Director of Systems Engineering at Impact Technologies and possesses over 17 years in the design analysis and testing experience with mechanical thermal and fluid power systems He currently performs as the Principal Investigator on the development of innovative prognostics and health management technologies for military and commercial customers and he has successfully lead numerous programs for the Army Navy Air Force DARPA and military OEMs Prior to joining Impact Carl worked at NASA Langley Research Center performing air breathing propulsion research and more recently the Penn State Applied Research Laboratory PSU ARL as the Department Head in Condition-Based Maintenance Carl is a lead and co-author on 2 patents related to PHM technology and he has published over 65 papers book chapters magazine and journal articles related to signal processing data fusion statistical analysis model-based prognostics andpredictive health management Matthew J Watson is a Manager of Dynamic Systems at Impact Technologies with 8 years experience in the design development and testing of diagnostic and prognostic systems He has participated in the design of advanced feature development fault class ifcation and dynamic systems modeling techniques for a variety of applications including gas turbine flight control power transmission drive train electrochemical fluid and hydraulic systems Prior to joining Impact Matt worked in the Condition-Based Maintenance department of PSU-ARL where he focused on model-based PHM development of electrochemical andfuel systems He has co-authored 23 papers related to advanced sensing techniques signal processing diagnostics and control model-based prognostics data fusion and machinery health management and is co-author on 2 patents Dr Sudarshan P Bharadwaj received his undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Madras India as well as Masters and Ph.D degrees in M.E from the Pennsylvania State University He has published several papers in his field He has been involved with a number of projects at Im act related to the health management of gas turbine engines aircraft and ship systems and has considerable experience in developing diagnostics and prognostics routines for these systems 12 


17 3GPP TS 25.212 Multiplexing and channel coding FDD 18 IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part 16 Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband Wireless Access Systems Amendment 2 Physical and Medium Access Control Layers for Combined Fixed and Mobile Operation in Licensed Bands and Corrigendum 1 2006 pp 0_1 822 19 3GPP TS 25.211 Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto physical channels FDD 20 Data sheet from Lyrtech Inc http available at htp c hwwkneopusff _.l/p.s/lrtehs _sr d21]D ateforomTdf 21 Data sheet from Texas Instruments http available at 22 Data sheet from Xilinx http available at httll/www.xilinx.com 23 L Hanzo W Webb and T Keller Singleand Multicarrier Quadrature Amplitude Modulation  Wiley New York 2000 titled Wireless and Satellite Communications  The research interests of Dr Sacchi are mainly focused on wideband mobile and satellite transmission systems based on space time andfrequency diversity multi-user receivers based on non conventional techniques neural networks genetic algorithms higher-order statistics-based receivers etc cross-layer PHY-MAC design and high-frequency broadband satellite communications He is currently local coordinator for University of Trento of research projects dealing with reconfigurable communication platforms based on MIMO techniques and space-time signal processing ICONA project funded by MIUR and with exploitation of W-band for broadband satellite communications WA VE programs funded by ASI Claudio Sacchi is author and co-author of more than 50 papers published in international journals and conferences and reviewer for international journals and magazines IEEE Transactions on Communications IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications IEEE Communications Letters IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Electronics Letters Wireless Networks IEEE Communications Magazine etc Dr Sacchi is member of the Organizing Committees and Technical Program Committees of international conferences like ICIP ICC GLOBECOM ACM-MOBIMEDIA etc Claudio Sacchi is member of IEEE M'01 SM'07 BIOGRAPHIES Olga Zlydareva is a PhD student of the University of Trento Italy She obtained her Master degree in Design Electronics Systems with specialization in High Radio Frequency Devices from MATI Moscow State Aviation Technological University named after KE Tsiolkovsky Moscow Russia Her research interests have oriented on the Software Defined Radio Technology Wireless Technologies Cellular Technologies Tunable devices Multi-standard systems Multi-protocol systems Physical layer of mobile devices Reconfigurability and Reprogramming of mobile devices The recent research focuses on the development of the baseband level of multistandard mobile devices based on SDR technology Claudio Sacchi was born in Genoa Italy in 1965 He obtained the Laurea degree in Electronic Engineering and the Ph.D in Space Science and Engineering at the University of Genoa Italy Since August 2002 Dr Sacchi has been holding aposition as assistant professor at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Trento Italy In 2004 he was appointed by the Department of Information and Communication Technology of the University of Trento as leader of the Research Program 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


