Implementing Symbolic Simulation Using SAT Solvers by Variables Partition  Wei Yan 1 Jinzhao Wu 1,2  1 University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 610054 CHINA 2 Chengdu Institute of Computer Applications, CAS, Chengdu, 610041 CHINA yanwei_bgm@126.com,  yanw@uestc.edu.cn   Abstract Although parametric representations and reparameteriz ations are used, the bottleneck of symbolic simulation is still the blowup of BDDs which may grow rapidly with the increase of simulation steps In this paper, we implement symbolic simulation using SAT solvers with 
variables partition which reduces the sizes of BDDs and remains enough coverage while lowering backtracks of SAT solvers.  This method partitions a big CNF into two smaller subsets A and B and then divides the variables into three disjoint sets. Through the constraint that the symbolic values are only assigned to the variables which occur in both A  and B the symbolic simulation implemented by SAT solvers obtains both the fewer backtracks and lower memory occupation. This method is proved to be sound and complete  I  I NTRODUCTION 
With the growing complexity of digital circuits and system designs, the verification for their functionality has become the most important and time-consuming task. Verification methods can be categorized into two basic types: formal methods and simulation-based methods. Formal methods such as model checking work well on small designs, but do not scale to larger designs. Simulation-based methods scale easily to large designs, but do not possess enough coverage 1 m b o lic si m u la tio n i s an altern ati v e m e t h o d   Symbolic simulation, which offers a good promise between formal verifications and simulation-based methods for the digital circuit design correctness, reliability and robustness has become a widely applied technique in many formal 
verification tools, for example, ESP-CV an d In tel F o rt e 3 s y m b o lic si m u lato r w o r k s i n th e f o llo w i n g  w a y  it f i rs t constructs the model for a circuit design, and imposes symbolic expressions to the input of the model, then propagates it to the output of the model, and compares the final results with the expectations, determines whether the system design is in accordance with its specifications A symbolic simulator runs same as a digital simulator except that its test sectors include not only digital values, but also symbolic values Introducing symbolic values in the simulator has the following advantages: First, in one single simulation run symbolic simulator can process the task which needs to be completed in many simulation runs by traditional simulator 
Second, symbolic simulation provides enough coverage [1   As a Boolean representation, BDD is usually used as the basic data structure in many symbolic simulators [5 However, as with all other BDD-based verification techniq  This work is supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant No. 60373113 and by NKBRPC \(No. 2004CB318000 ues, the size of  BDDs  in  symbolic  simulators  may grow exponentially in the number of variables in circuit designs especially IP-based designs. In order to address this problem parametric representations and reparameterizations are usually computed during the process of symbolic simulation 7, 8  T h e size o f p a ra m e tric rep r esen tatio n s is si g n ifican t l y  
smaller than original BDDs since they always require fewer variables. Unfortunately, parametric representations may also be too big to be loaded into memory. The basic reason for BDD blow-up is that the BDD contains too many variables. In order to solve this problem, we investigate an alternative way to reduce the number of BDD variables, that is, we give a restriction to the variables such that only part of them is symbolic simulated. The method is implemented by combining the symbolic simulation with A SAT solver SAT, also called Boolean satisfiability problem, can be described as following: Given a Boolean formula, to determine if there exists an assignment to the Boolean variables such that the formula can be evaluated to 1. DPLL and Zchaff  w i del y u s e d alg o rit h m s in  m a ny  sat 
solvers Usually, a SAT solver chooses a variable to branch on each time. In our algorithm, we would like to restrict the branching only on part variables, for other variables, the symbolic simulation is adopted In order to implement the above goal, the algorithm we propose in this paper first divides the variables into two different sets, then symbolic simulates the common variables occurred in both  sets, and branch on the other variables It must be noted that the algorithm is not for the purpose of assuring the satisfiability of CNF, but for testing the unsatisfiability of CNF rapidly. Instead of simulating all the variables, our algorithm only simulates part variables, so that lowers the number of symbolic values, and improves the efficiency of verification 
In recent years, many techniques which combine the symbolic simulation and SAT have occurred [7 Bu t t o o  many symbolic variables lead one prone to memory blow-up   This paper is organized as follow. Section 2 simply introduces the relative knowledge. Section 3 discusses that how to implement symbolic simulation using SAT solvers Section 4 proposes the algorithm that implements symbolic simulation using SAT solvers with variables partition, and proves its soundness and completeness. Section 5 gives an  978-1-4244-2587-7/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 


experimental result, which shows that the symbolic simulation-based SAT algorithm is effective. The last section gives the conclusions II. R ELATIVE K NOWLEDGE A.  SAT Boolean satisfiability problem is a typical problem in artificial intelligence and the design of digital circuit. Usually given a Boolean function f  x 1  x n on n binary variables x 1  x n the Boolean satisfiability is concerned with finding an assignment to the variables x 1  x n that make the function equal to constant 1, or proving that the function is equal to the constant 0 [10   The basic method of SAT is to enumerate all the assignments of input variables, search those assignments making formula under test true. All possible assignments form the input space which can be represented as a binary tree. Each node of the tree denotes a variable. Each node variable has two outgoing edges. The left edge represents that the variable was assigned to 1; the right edge represents the appositive. A path is a sequence of assigns to node variables from root node to leaf node. A leaf node assigned to 1 represents the formula is satisfiable. Thus, to solve the SAT problem of formula  is to search a path which starts from root node leading to a leaf node assigned to 1. Obviously, if formula  has n variables, the tree of  has 2 n  leaf nodes Usually, Boolean formulas are represented as conjunctive normal form \(simply, CNF\. Formally, a conjunctive normal form is the conjunction a set of clauses, and a clause is the disjunction of a set of literals, where a literal is a variable or its complement B Basic SAT Algorithm The sound and complete DPLL algorithm is adopted by many SAT solvers. In essence, DPLL algorithm computes the assign for a new variable at a time. The selection of variable in each computation may affect the efficiency of the algorithm. Heuristic algorithm is often used to select the most suitable variable in computations. But, whichever heuristic algorithms are adopted, DPLL algorithm always starts from the variable which appears most frequently Due to lack of space, we only introduce the basic processing method of SAT algorithm which includes three steps First: preprocessing the clause set. In this step, Boolean constraint propagation which is also known as BCP is used Second: selecting the suitable variable Third: induce all the implied values which can be got from the known assigns and BCP. In this step, if a conflict occurs then algorithm backtracks to the nearest variable Although different in somewhere, currently used SAT solvers mainly based on the above framework III  I MPLEMENT S YMBOLIC SIMULATION U SING SAT  M ETHOD  Symbolic simulation computes from input nodes to the output nodes, the Boolean function for each inner node. The values for output nodes are Boolean functions in initial variables. Although symbolic simulation can offer a complete coverage, but too many symbolic values will make these BDDs too large to build A Why Implement Symbolic Simulation Using SAT Solvers Implement symbolic simulation using a SAT solver adds three advantages to the functional verification of a circuit design The first advantage is that the use of symbolic values in the SAT solver reduces the number of branches on the CNF variables. As we know, the disadvantage of traditional simulation is that only one scalar vector is simulated at a time But a symbolic vector may include much more information than scalar vectors. Same in SAT solvers, symbolic value contains much more information that requires many branches to obtain For example, Let A be a CNF, which contains two variables x and y In order to determine the satisfiability of the A, the SAT solver may need 4 branches. The procedure is shown as the Fig. 1  Fig. 1. The determination tree of SAT We can find from Fig. 1 that the determination tree of A  contains four leaf nodes {3, 4, 5, 6}. But as for symbolic values, only two leaf nodes in the determination tree. This is shown as Fig.2  Fig. 2. The determination tree of  SAT using symbolic values As shown as in Fig.2, variable x is given a symbolic value a  then SAT solver branch on variable y First, symbolic value a  is assigned to variable y If a conflict occurs, the SAT solver backtracks to node 1, and select node 3. In fact, although the determination tree using symbolic value has only 2 leaf nodes but it give the same analysis as original SAT solver The second advantage is that the use of SAT solvers avoids constructing BDDs for each node. The SAT solver turns the circuit design to a CNF. This gives us an opportunity to select that which variable should be symbolic simulated, and which should be branched on using binary value Why some variable are still branching by using binary  y  a Root x  a  y   a  1 2 3 y 0 Root x 0 x 1 y 0  y 1  y 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 


values? This is because sometimes symbolic simulating all variables will not bring conveniences. We will show this point through an example Example 1 Let A be the following CNF      xyxyzxyzxyzxyz   The above CNF has three variables. In order to investigate the satisfiability of the CNF, symbolic simulation first select variable x and assigns symbolic value a to it. We can not induce any information from the symbolic value. Then, let y a, we get the following CNF     z a z a    The CNF implies that z 1. So, the symbolic vector x=a  y=a  z 1} make the CNF satisfiable. In fact, according to DPLL algorithm, a binary sector x 1 z 1} is obtained and the determination procedure is simpler From this example, we know that it is necessary to restrict the symbolic simulation only on specific variables, instead of all variables in CNFs The third advantage is that the introduction of symbolic values reduces the necessary backtracks. Since symbolic values in SAT solvers reduces the branches, the backtracks is decreased also once conf licts are encountered B The Goal of Symbolic Simulation In SAT solvers Although having the above three advantages, symbolic values are not always suitable for all SAT problems Example 1 has shown that the introduction of symbolic simulation directly to SAT solvers may not bring good effect But, it is convenient to determine the unsatisfiability of a CNF using symbolic simulation. So, symbolic simulation in out algorithm is not used to determine the satisfiability, but the unsatisfiability The corresponding algorithm is given in the following section IV. S YMBOLIC S IMULATION A LGORITHM U SING SAT  S OLVERS  The algorithm divides clauses set of CNF into two subsets A and B according to the literal occurred most frequently. For example, let the literal be x then all the clauses containing literal x or x construct subset A the other clauses form the subset B  Let V A denote the set of variables which occur in clauses set A and let V B denote the set of variables which occur in clauses set B Then computer the intersection of A and B denoted as V  V A V B  If the number of literal x in the CNF is greater than x then x is assigned 1, otherwise x is assigned to 0 Note that symbolic simulation only processes those variables in set V For other variables, the normal binary simulation is adopted. In this way, a CNF can be recognized to UNSAT rapidly if it is unsatisfiable. If there exists binary assigns for those variables in V A V such that A is satisfiable then the bigger SAT problem for original CNF is turned to a smaller SAT problem for B If A is unsatisfiable, current values are modified. Thus, backtraces is reduced ss_sat_solver \(CNF Input: a CNF Output: SAT or UNSAT while TRUE do  if preprocess\(\= CONFLICT then  return UNSAT x = select_max_var A, B = partition\(CNF, x V 2 var\(A var\(B V 1 var\(A\ – V 2  if ss_sat\(A\ == UNSAT return UNSAT else if ss_sat\(A\= UNSOLVED sat_solver\(CNF else  CNF = B Done Fig. 3. Symbolic simulation algorithm using SAT solvers with variables partition When a conflict occurs during preprocessing, the algorithm returns UNSAT. Function partition\(CNF x vides CNF into two subset A and B with variable x Method ss_sat A ecks the satisfiablilty of set A with symbolic simulation. The code of ss_sat A follow ss_sat\(A while TRUE do  if select_next_var\(\ == 0 then  return SAT else if select_next_var  V 2  then  ss_decide else bin_decide while deduce\( \= CONFLICT do  bk_level = resolve_conflicts if bk_level == 0 then  return UNSAT else backtrack\(bk_level done if deduce\( \= UNSOLVED then return UNSOLVED  done  Fig. 4. Function ss_sat Select_next_var\(\elects next variable needed to be assigned, if the variable belongs to V 2 then a symbolic value is assigned to it. Ss_decide\(\nvokes symbolic simulation to decide the satisfiability of A If the selected variable does not belong to V 2 then the binary decision procedure bin_decide is invoked Deduce\(\ a function which deduce the unknown variable values from the known variable values. The basic principle for deduction is known as BCP which in our algorithm has been extended to symbolic values. BDDs are used when necessary During Boolean constraint propagation, history of assigns to the variables including both symbolic values and binary values must be recorded in case that once a conflict occurs BCP can cancel current value and backtrack to the original assigns Backtrack\(\ctions that if current assigns do not satisfy the formula, then withdraw the values of some variables and re-assigns it Finally, set B is assigned to CNF, sat_solver\(CNF\n recursively until the problem is solved Next, we will discuss the soundness and completeness of the symbolic simulation algorithm using SAT solvers with 


variables partition ss_sat_solver Theorem The symbolic simulation algorithm ss_sat_solver using SAT solver s with variables partition is soundness and completeness Proof Given a CNF and variable x according to x partition the CNF into two set A and B Each clause of A contains x or its complement B is opposite to A Let V A denote the variable set of A and V B be the set of variables in B let V 2  V A V B and V 1  V A V 2  Then the theorem is equivalent to the following two propositions Proposition 1: If A is unsatisfiable, original CNF is unsatisfiable too Proposition 2: If there exists an assign  1 of variables set V 1  such that A is satisfiable, and then original CNF is satisfiable if and only if B is satisfiable Proposition 1 holds obviously. We only discuss proposition 2. We deduce first from left to right. Clearly B is satisfiable if original CNF is satisfiable Then, we deduce from right. Assume that original CNF is unsatisfiable. Since B is satisfiable, there must exist a set of assigns of V B such that B is evaluated to 1. Without loss of generality, let the set of assigns be  B denotes the projection of  B into V 2 as  2 Then  2 makes A unsatisfiable. But, we know from the proposition that there exists also a set of assigns  1 such that A is satisfiable. It can be concluded that there must exist conflict between  1 and  2 Actually V 1  V A   V 2 thus V 1 V 2   that is to say; there are no conflict between  1 and  2 The conclusion conflict with the assumption Then, proposition 2 holds and the theorem is also holds V  E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS  We report our experimental results on 1.8GHz Intel Pentium processor machine with 512MB of main memory running Windows XP professional. The experimental bench we use includes two CNF files which contain 100 and 4821 variables respectively. One CNF file contains 449 initial clauses, 1347 initial literal, the other contains 48221 initial clauses, 137185 initial literal We compare our algorithm against Zchaff SAT checker Table gives the experimental results TABLE I Experimental result on two CNFs Item Zchaff SS_sat 4821 variables Max_depth 415 351 Assign-count 6952 2834 Time\(s\672 4.006 100 variables Max_depth 23 17 Assign-count 782 557 Time\(s\703 1.046 Result Sat Sat  In table 1, the column marked “SS_sat”, denotes our symbolic simulation-based algorithm. “Assign-count” row records the counts of assigns to variables. “Time” records the amount of time the algorithm required to solve the SAT problem. Experimental results show that the assign-count of symbolic simulation-based algorithm is less than Zchaff Time” row also shows that our algorithm run fast than Zcahaff We would like to point that if too many literal in a clause for example, average more than 4 variables in a clause may lower the efficiency, because the computation of BDD costs some resource. Our algorithm is suitable for those SAT problem in which CNFs are based on the circuit structure VI  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper presents a symbolic simulation-based SAT algorithm, which allows performing symbolic simulation to improve the efficiency of SAT algorithm. The method partitions the CNF under test into two subsets, and thus forms two set of variables. The algorithm, in order to test the unsatisfiability, symbolic simulates only those variables belonging to both two set. The introduction of symbolic simulation to part variables makes it possible to run rapidly to exclude the possibility of unsatisfiability or verify the UNSAT The algorithm as given is proved to be soundness and completeness In the future, we would like to improve the ability and efficiency of the algorithm further. In particular, we would like to investigate how to partition the CNF so that each subset has the minimal impact on other subsets R EFERENCES  1  C  W i ls on  D. L  Di ll a n d R E  B r y a n t S y m b oli c S i m u la ti on w i th  Approximate Values[C The 3rd International Conference on Formal Methods in Computer-Aided Design 470-485, 2000 2  ES P CV Re f e r e nce Ma nu al  Synopsys INC Version V-2003.12 December 2003 3  C.J H  S e g e r  R B. Jo ne s an d J  W   O  L e ar y  e t c An Industrially Effective Environment for Formal Hardware Verification IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 24, no. 9, pp. 1381-1405, 2005 4   V  B e r t ac c o and K  O l u k o tun   E f f i c i e n t S t at e R e p r es en t a t i o n f o r  Symbolic Simulation In proceedings of  DAC 2002 USA, 99-104 2002 5   T  F e ng L   W a ng an d K  C h e n g  I m pr o v e d Sy m b o l ic S i m u l a tio n  by  Functional-Space Decomposition In proceedings of ASP-DAC 2004  pp. 634-639. 2004 6  M   R P r a s ad  A  Bi er e A   G u p t a   A Survey of Rencent Advances in SAT-Based Formal Verification Intl. Journal on Software Tools for Technology Transfer, 2005, 7\(2\: 156-173 7   P  C h a u ha n E   M Cl ar ke  an d D  K r oe ning  A S A T bas e d al g o r ithm  for reparameterization in symbolic simulation[C  I n  Proc. Design Automation Conference pp. 524 – 529, 2004 8  P  C h a u ha n E   Cl ar ke D  K r oe ning  E x p e r im e n ts w i t h S A T bas e d Symbolic Simulation Using Reparameterization in the Abstraction Refinement Framework”, Technical report, Carnegie Mellon University, May, 2004 9   M  H   M o s k evi c z  C  F   M a d i gan  Y   Zh a o  et c   Cha f f  E n gin eer i n g and Efficient SAT Solver, In proceeding. of 38th Design Automation Conference pp. 530–535, 2001 10   Z  Z e ng K  R. T a l u pur u M   Cie s ie l s ki  Functional test generation based on word-level SAT Journal of Systems Architecture, Vol 51, pp. 488–511, Aug, 2005 


 V.  CONCLUSION   This paper adopts DEA to evaluate the software project performance in a big Canadian bank. The results identify the significant amount of improvement for the involved software project.  Special emphasis was placed on how to present the DEA results to management so as to provide more guidance to them on what to manage and how to accomplish the changes. Finally recommendations to management\222s use of DEA results were given   REFERENCES  1 R  D  B a nk e r C  F  K e m e r e r  223 S c a l e Ec onom ie s in N e w  Software Development\224, IEEE Transactions of Software Engineering, Vol. 15, no.10, 1989 2   R. D. Banker, S. M. Datar, C. F. Kemerer, \223A Model to Evaluate Variables Impacting the Productivity of Software Maintenance Projects\224, Management Science, Vol.37 No.1, pp.1-18, 1991  J  E l am  223E val u at i n g t h e E f f i ci en c y o f IS Organ i sat i o n s  Using Data Envelopment Analysis\224, Proc. of International Function Points Users Group 1990 Fall Conference October 1991 4  J  C   P a r a di D  N  R e e s e   a nd D  R o s e n 223 A pplic a tions  of  DEA to Measure the Efficiency of Software Production at Two Large Canadians Banks\224, Annals of Operations Research, 73, pp.91-115, 1997 5  R  D  B a nk e r A  C h a r ne s a n d W  W C o o p e r  M ode ls f o r  Estimating Technical and Scale Efficiencies in DEA Management Science 30\(9\: pp.1078-1092, 1984 6 C o ope r  W  W L  M. Se if or d a nd K  T o ne 223 D a t a  Envelopment Analysis: A Comprehensive Text with Models, Applications, References\224, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston, 2000  S u ey o sh i  T   223DE A Du al i t y o n Ret u rn s t o S cal e \(RT S  n  Production and Cost Analysis: An Occurrence of Multiple Solution and Difference between Production-based and Cost-based RTS Estimates\224, Management Science, Vol.45 No.11, 1999, pp1593-1608   No rm an  M an d S t o k er B 223Dat a E n vel o p m en t A n al ysi s   The Assessment of Performance\224, John Wiley & Sons Publishers, 1991   1727 


3 AUTONOMOUS CALIBRATION PROCEDURE The finalized version of the calibration procedure consists of 1 checking the normality of a measured mass spectrum 2 tuning several instrument parameters 3 recovering errors if they occur and 4 reporting errors when they are not recoverable The tunable instrument parameters are a PreAmplifier Discriminator PAD Digital-analog converter DAC value a Channel Electron Multiplier CEM bias voltage and an ionizer current At each tuning process there is either a recovery path or an exit path when errors occur Figure 8 shows the conditional and sequential flows of the calibration procedure encompassing all possible cases Normality of a Background Noise Level The calibration starts from checking the normality of a background noise level when an ionizer current is off When the current is off there are no excited ions that can contribute to CEM and thus the signal registered in DAC is an electronics noise rather than a signal arising from ions A low level of the background noise is preferred to make sure that one can see the amount of the noise arising from the electronics noise without washing out a true signal A specific condition for the normality of the base background noise level is given by the maximum number of ion counts per second frame and by the maximum number of ion counts per channel after adding up the ion counts from all the frames Tuning PAD DAC Value When the normality of the base background noise level is not met we take a path to tune a PAD DAC value The DAC value controls the threshold of the signal registered to a signal processing electronics As the PAD DAC value increases the threshold of the registration of the signal increases Therefore if the background noise level is too high we increase the PAD DAC value until it meets the nominal condition of the background noise Conversely we lower the PAD DAC value if the noise is too low Normality of a Signal Level After the normal background noise level is achieved the next step is to check the normality of a signal level while a filament current is on Generally the signal should be strong enough to see most of important mass peaks of air such as mass peaks of 28 N2 32 02 40 Ar and 44 CO2 Since the signal is given as a function of channel number the conversion of channel number to mass number in amu is required We call this procedure mass calibration The mass calibration involves a complex data analysis procedure and deserves a separate paper by itself In this paper we assume that the mass calibration is done reasonably well so that the error in mass calibration is less than 0.5 amu The normality of the signal level is given by the minimum total ion counts per second frame and the minimum number of total ion counts for mass  31.5 32.5 This condition ensures that an overall signal level is high and the largest air peak usually 32 has a strong signal Tuning CEMBias Voltage When the normality of the signal level is not satisfied we take a recovery path that is to tune a CEM bias voltage The CEM voltage controls the amplification of the signal of ion counts A higher voltage leads to a higher amplification of the signal When a CEM is used a lot a CEM slowly degrades and its amplification gain becomes weaker so that a higher voltage is need to make the same amplification than before When the signal level does not meet its nominal condition it is usually due to the degradation of the CEM's amplification ability In the case we increase a CEM voltage until the signal nominal condition is met If the condition is not met even at the maximum allowed CEM voltage we use a back-up CEM A CEM is paired with its own PAD Therefore when a back-up CEM is used we restart an autonomous calibration procedure and tune a PAD DAC value if necessary If even the back-up CEM cannot meet the nominal condition an error is reported and a calibration procedure exits Tuning Ionizer Current After a normal signal level is achieved the next step is to tune an ionizer current The ionizer current affects a signalto-noise ratio As the current increases the spectrometer generates more ions and thus higher ion counts Initially the increased current improves the signal-to-noise ratio but a further increase of the current gives rise to a merge of two adjacent mass peaks making a poor mass resolution It is finding the transition point that is the goal of tuning the ionizer current We find the optimal current by looking for an ionizer current below which the peaks of mass 28 and mass 29 have not yet completely merged and above which the two peaks have completely merged This scheme emphasizes the gain of a high signal over the gain of a high mass resolution The optimal current found by this scheme does not give the best mass resolution because the two mass peaks 28 and 29 already started to merge but it gives a high signal value by losing the mass resolution slightly The reason to choose the mass peak 28 and 29 is because the mass 28 and 29 peaks are the strongest mass peaks among the pairs of adjacent mass peaks Sanity Check of Mass Spectrum After tuning all the three instrument parameters we do a sanity check by measuring a mass spectrum and checking whether expected mass peaks are observed at the right masses and whether unexpected mass peaks are observed The location of the expected mass peaks tells us whether the RF amplitude is ramped up as expected When the expected mass peaks are missing an error is declared and the verification of the RF sequence parameters is requested 6 


When all the expected mass peaks are observed we check whether unexpected mass peaks are shown above a certain peak signal threshold Any unexpected peak with a high signal indicates that an ion trap is contaminated by either previous chemical events or chemical leakages In this situation a procedure of cleaning the ion trap is requested 4 TRANSLATION TO FLIGHT SOFTWARE In this section we describe how we translate the autonomous calibration procedure into flight software We map each calibration step of the procedure into a calibration function and a decision variable that contains the decision result of the calibration function The decision variables are accessible to the command and data-handling C&DH module of the flight software Depending on the value of the decision variables C&DH module determines a next step in the autonomous calibration The calibration function analyzes measured data to determine a value to the decision variables There are 8 top-level calibration functions that directly communicate with the C&DH module Depending on the calibration result the functions set the decision variables to TRUE or FALSE The function itself does not return any value the output is void All the calibration functions are prefixed with ac and all the decision variables are prefixed with AC in order to avoid symbol name clashes with the other part of the flight software acInitialize This function initializes all the decision variables of the calibration procedure It must be called before any other calibration routines are called This ensures that all the decisions variables are set to default so that a new calibration process is not affected by the previous calibration result acCheckBackground This function checks the base background signal level of a mass spectrum when the filament current is off It checks whether the nominal condition of the background signal level is met The condition is that 1 the total ion count of each channel should be less than or equal to AC_MAX BACKGROUND ION COUNTS PER CHA NNEL and 2 the total ion count of each frame should be larger than AC MIN BACKGROUND ION_COUNTS_PER_FRAM E and less than or equal to AC_MAX BACKGROUND ION COUNTS PER FRA ME When the condition is satisfied it sets the decision variable AC BACKGROUND-NORMAL to TRUE Otherwise it sets AC_BACKGROUND_NORMAL to FALSE acOptimizePAD This function finds an optimal PAD DAC value based on ion count signal The function receives several mass spectra from a range of PAD DAC values and uses acCheckBackground function to find which PAD DAC value generates a mass spectrum that satisfies the base background nominal condition If there are more than one PAD DAC value that satisfies the condition it chooses the lowest PAD DAC value among them The decision variable of this function is AC PAD OPTIMIZED If the function successfully finds the optimal condition AC_PAD_OPTIMIZED is set to TRUE Otherwise it is set to FALSE The output variable is the optimal PAD value found When the optimization is successful the flight software should update the PAD DAC value with the optimal PAD value before proceeding acCheckSignal This function checks the signal level generated when a filament current is on The condition for a nominal signal is that 1 the averaged total ion count per frame should be equal to or larger than AC MIN-TOTAL ION-COUNTS PER FRAME and 2 the averaged total ion count for m 31.5,32.5 should be equal to or larger than AC MIN TOTAL_ION_COUNTS_M_32_PER_FRAME The decision result is stored in AC SIGNAL-NORMAL When the nominal signal condition is met AC SIGNAL-NORMAL is set to TRUE Otherwise it is FALSE acOptimizeCEM This function finds an optimal CEM bias based on the ion count signal given The optimal CEM value increases the total ion count by less than 10 compared to the total ion count of a previous lower CEM bias The function also checks whether the mass spectrum of the optimal CEM bias satisfies the nominal signal condition given by acCheckSignal function If the optimal CEM bias is found and it satisfies the nominal signal condition it sets the decision variable AC CEM OPTIMIZED to TRUE Otherwise it is FALSE When AC CEM_OPTIMIZED is TRUE the fight software should update the CEM bias to the optimal value before proceeding acOptim izeIonizerCurrent This function finds an optimal ionizer current by looking for an ionizer current below which the peaks 28 and 29 have not yet completely merged and above which the two peaks have completely merged This scheme emphasizes a high signal over a high mass resolution The optimal current found by this scheme does not give the best mass resolution because the two peaks 28 and 29 already started to merge but it gives a high signal value by losing the mass resolution slightly The decision variable of the function is AC_CURRENT_OPTIMIZED When an optimal current is found AC_CURRENT_OPTIMIZED is set to TRUE 7 


Otherwise it is FALSE When AC CURRENT-OPTIMIZED is true the flight software should update the ionizer current value with the optimal current value output variable found before proceeding acMassCalibration This function performs a mass calibration based on a given mass spectrum where the two largest mass peaks are nitrogen and oxygen peaks and independently performs another mass calibration based on RF ramp parameters given by FPGA register values The function compares the results of the two mass calibration methods to determine whether the mass calibration is successful or not The decision variable of this function is AC_MASS CALIBRATED If the two calibration results agree AC MASS-CALIBRATED is set to TRUE Otherwise it is FALSE acCheckMassPeaks This function finds prominent mass peaks in a given mass spectrum and compares them with the persistent mass list The function checks whether the prominent mass peaks do align with the locations of the persistent mass peaks and whether any of the prominent mass peaks are outside of the persistent peak list The decision variables of this function are AC MASS PEAKS CHECKED AC_MASS_PEAKS_AT_EXPECTED_LOCATION and AC FOUND CONTAMINANT MASS PEAKS When the analysis of mass peak locations and strengths is properly conducted AC MASS PEAKS-CHECKED is set to TRUE Otherwise it is FALSE When AC MASS PEAKS CHECKED is true the flight software should use the two other decision variables to determine the next steps of the calibration procedure When AC MASS PEAKS CHECKED is false the flight software should exit the calibration procedure with an error flag 5 CONCLUSIONS In conclusion we have developed a heuristic calibration process to obtain the desired mass resolution and dynamic range of the VCAM s mass spectrometer and have implemented it into flight software We developed the calibration process by working closely with instrument engineers and translated it into algorithms that are suitable for direct conversion to flight software We designed several test cases and datasets to verify that the algorithm achieved the same as the original human calibration process REFERENCES 1 A Chutjian et al Overview of the Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Monitor a Miniature Gas Chromatograph/Mass Spectrometer for Trace Contamination Monitoring on the ISS and CEV Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Environmental Systems SAE Technical Paper Series paper number 2007-01-3150 2007 2 D L Jan Environmental Monitoring Instruments Using ISS as a Testbed for Exploration Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE Aerospace Conference Big Sky Montana March 2007 3 R E March An Introduction to Quadrupole Ion Trap Mass Spectrometry Journal of the American Society of Mass Spectrometry Vol 32 351-369 1997 BIOGRAPHY Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory She is developingflight instrument software for Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Monitor data analysis and autonomous calibration She is also conducting research on materials modeling and simulation comet gas dynamics nonlinear dynamics control spectral retrieval data reduction global optimization parallel computing and advanced numerical algorithms She received her Ph.D in Physics from the Ohio State University and her M.S and B.S in Physicsfrom the Seoul National University Ben Bornstein is a senior member of the Machine Learning and Instrument Autonomy group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena CA He is the lead engineer for VCAM data analysis and its flight software implementation Ben enjoys bringing machine learning techniques and considerable hacking programming skills to bear to solve problems in geology remote sensing bioinformatics and systems biology He has designed and implemented software systems for several Caltech biology labs the Institute for Genomics and Bioinformatics IGB at UC Irvine USC Children's Hospital and JPL's Mars Exploration Rover MER project He is also the inventor of and lead developer for LIBSBML an open-source library for the Systems Biology Markup Language SBML Ben received a B.Sc in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota Duluth in 1999 and is pursuing a MSc in Computer Science at the University of Southern California 8 


time, more firms \(or supply chains\ay start realizing competitive advantages emanating from B2B technology. This could increase mimetic influences and coercive influences over the long run  In addition, the importance of normative pressures in the Thai business community can be accelerated by the strong interdependency between members within the Thai social network. Thailand is known as an interdependence orientation society or a collectivist society h e T h ai com m u n ity  values the spirit of community collaboration. Komin  ref e rs to th is as in terdepen d en ce orien tated T h ai society. Collaborative behaviour is a dominant behavioural pattern, particularly in the rural community, where the brotherhood spirit often manifests itself in helping one another and in being interdependent and mutually supportive. Hence, the findings on the importance of normative pressures are in-accord with previous research dicatin g  that norms espoused by the businesses environment play a major role in influencing organisations to adopt and utilise new technology. Interestingly, both of the previous studies were conducted in the Asian cultural context, namely Singa d C h in a  h ere collectiv is m s eem s to be a s t ron g cu ltu ral value  Overall, findings show that external institutional factors, normative and coercive pressures, have an impact on the B2B utilization, while only normative pressures had a significant influence on perceived performance of B2B technology. Similar to normative pressures seem to be the most significant factor influencing both utilisation and performance Both of the control factors, namely type of Internet access and level of IT related skills and experience of staff, did not have a significant influence in the model. This can also confirm the belief that the basic technical infrastructures such as telecommunications hardware and software are no longer a major problem in the adoption and diffusion of the internet-based B2B technology in Thailand  7. Limitation and Future research Since this study was conducted in Thailand, it may limit the generalizability of our results beyond the Thai cultural context. Eventhough there are similarities among several Thai cultural values and other Asian countries, one cannot confidently assume that the results will be applicable to all Asian countries. Moreover, our findings may also have limited applicability beyond the tourism industry Another limitation is that subjects of this study were representatives of the sub-population of firms that already had some \(often limited\xperience in adopting and utilising e-mail and e-marketplace technologies. These firms tend to have higher technological readiness than non-adopters. However within our scope of study, it can be argued that the researchers may have difficulty in obtaining useful information from the non-adopters as they have no experience in using B2B technology  Future research in this domain can be extended in a number of ways. A duplication of this study can be done using a larger sample size, a variety of industrial contexts and a variety of countries particularly in western contexts characterized by individualism rather than collectivism. This will help strengthen the validity of this research. A better understanding of such isomorphic pressures may well lead to an improvement in B2B technology adoption utilisation, and performance  8. References 1 R. Brislin  B a c k tra n sla tion f o r c r oss-c u ltura l research Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology vol 1, pp. 186-216, 1970  K Bu rke T h e I m p act o f F i r m S i ze o n Int ern e t Use i n  Small Businesses Electronic Markets vol. 15, pp. 79 93, 2005  W  Ch i n  Issu es an d op i n i o n on s t ru ct u r al equ a t i o n  modeling MIS Quarterly vol. March, 1998  W  Ch i n   P erson a l co mm u n i cat i o n t o t h e research er in conversation at the University of New South Wales,"  Australia, 2006 5 W  Chin, B  Ma rc oli n a nd P. Ne w s te d, "A pa rtia l le a s t squares latent variables modeling approach for measuring interaction effects: Results from a Monte Carol simulation study and an electronic-mail emotion/adoption study Information Systems Research vol. 14, pp. 189-217, 2003 6 G  Churc hill  A pa ra digm  f o r de v e loping be tte r measures of marketing constructs Journal of Marketing Research vol. 16, 1979 7 L  Cornba c h   T e s t V a lida tion   in Educational Measurement vol. 2nd edn, R. Thorndike, Ed Wahsington D.C.: American Council on Education 1971, pp. 443-507 8 Q  D a i a nd R K a uf fm a n  B us ine s s m ode ls  f o r Internet based B2B electronic markets International Journal of Electronic Commerce vol. 6, pp. 41-72 2002 9 R. F. Dev e llis Scale Development: Theory and Applications USA: SAGE, 1991 10  P. J  D i Ma g g i o a n d W  W   P o w e ll T he Iron Ca g e  Revisited: Institutional Isomorphism and Collective Rationality in Organisational Fields American Sociological Review vol. 48, pp. 147-160, 1983 11 C. For n e ll a n d D. L a rc k e r E va lua ting struc tura l equation models with unobservable vriables and measurement error Journal of Marketing Research vol. 19, 1981 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


12  D  G oodh ue a n d R  L  T hom ps on  T as k tec hnol og y  fit and individual performance MIS Quarterly pp 213-236, 1995 1 P  Hem p el an d Y Kw o n g  B2 B  e-co mmerc e in  emerging economies: i-mental.com's non-ferrous metals exchanges in China Journal of Strategic Management vol. 10, pp. 335-355, 2001 14 G   Ho fsted e Cultures and organisations: Software of the mind USA: McGraw-Hill, 1991 1 J. Hu m p h r ey   B u s in ess to bu sin e ss e-co mm erc e an d  access to global markets: exclusive or inclusive outcomes?," 2002, Retrieved: 27 September 2004 from  www.gapresearch.org/production ecommerce.html 16  J  H u m phre y R. Ma ns e ll, D   P a re a nd H  Sc hm itz  The reality of e-commerce with developing countries.", 2003. Retrieved: 27 September 2004, from www.gapresearch.org/production/ ecommerce.html 17 L  M. H unte r  C. J  K a s o ul, K  G  Ce luc h a n d K  A   Curry, "A classification of business-to-business buying decision: Risk importance and probability as a framework for e-business benefits Industrial Marketing Management vol. 33, pp. 145-154, 2004 1 A  In trap airo t and A  S r ivih o k  T h e e-co mmerce o f  SMEs in Thailand," in E-Commerce and Culture Values T. Thanasakit, Ed.: IDEA Group Publishing 2003, pp. 119-219 19  F. K a e f e r a nd E. B e nd oly   M e a sur i ng t h e im pa c t of  organisational constraints on the success of businessto-business e-commerce efforts: a transactional focus Journal of information and Management vol. 41, pp 529-541, 2004 20 T  Koa nna ta k ool E v a lua ting Na tiona l E-c o m m e r c e  Strategies," in the Joint UNCTAD-UNESCAP AsiaPacific Regional Conference on E-commerce strategies for development Bangkok, Thailand, 2002 21 S Ko m i n   Psychology of the Thai People vol. 2nd edn. Bangkok, Thailand: National Institute of Development Administration \(NIDA\, 1991 2 H L i an g N S a raf  Q Hu  an d Y Xu e  A ssi m i l a tio n  of enterprise systems: the effect of institutional pressures and the mediating role of top management MIS Quarterly vol. 31, pp. 59-87, 2007 23 K   Ma hb uba ni Can Asian Think Singapore: Time Books International, 1998 24  S. M o o d le y  T he pote n tia l of Int e rne t ba s e d b u s i ne s s to-business electronic commerce for a 'technology follower': the case of the South African apparel sector International Journal of Internet and Enterprise Management vol. 1, 2003 2 NE C T C  i o n a l E l e ct ro ni c and Co m p u t er Technology Center, "Thailand ICT Indicators Ministry of Science,        Technology and Environment, Ed. Thailand, 2005 26  S. N g a o rung s i IT D i re c t or of the  T ouris m  A u thority  of Thailand, author, Ed. Bangkok, 2004 27 P. O Re illy a nd P  Fi nne g a n P e r f o r m a n c e in Electronic Marketplaces: Theory in Practice Electronic Markets vol. 15, pp. 23-27, 2005 28  P. G  P r e m k u m a r I nte r org a nis a tion s y s t em s a nd supply chain management: An information processing perspective Information systems management vol summer, 2000 2 S  Rao  C   P e rry  an d L  F r azer T h e i m p act o f  Internet use on inter-firm relationships in Australian service industries Australasian Marketing Journal vol. 11, 2003 3 M  Rask an d H Kragh  M o t i v es f o r em a r k et p l ace participation: Differences and similarities between buyers and suppliers Electronic Markets vol. 14, pp 270-283, 2004 3 S  Ro tc h a n a kitu m n u a i an d M   S p eece B arriers to  Internet banking adoption: a qualitative study among corporate customers in Thailand International Journal of Bank Marketing vol. 21, pp. 312-323 2003 32  S. Sa ha de v a n d N  Is la m   E x p loring the  determinations for e-commerce usage in the hotel industry in Thailand: An empirical study Information Technology & Tourism vol. 7, 2005 3 S  S o o r an gu ra  P r esi d en t o f t r avel agen t asso ci at i o n  o f  Thailand, author, Ed. Bangkok, 2004 34 M. R Su bra m a ni H o w Do Sup p lie rs Be ne f it f r o m  Information Technology Use in Supply Chain Relationships MIS Quarterly vol. 28, 2004 35  M. R   Su br a m a n i a nd N   Ve nk a t r a m a n S af e g ua r d ing  investments in asymmetric interorganisational relationships: Theory and evidence Academy of Management Journal vol. 46, pp. 46-62, 2003 36 H  H  T e o, K  K  W e i, a n d I. Be n b a s a t  P re dic t i n g  intention to adopt interorganisational linkage: An institutional perspective MIS Quaterly vol. 27, pp 19-49, March 2003 37  H  H  T e o a nd C  R a ng a n a t ha n  A dopte r s a nd no nadopters of business to business electronic commerce in Singapore Journal of Information Management 2004 38  TA T  ourism  A u thority of T h a i la nd I nc om e expenditure report of tourism sector in year 2005 TAT, Ed. Thailand, 2005 39 E. T u rba n D  K i ng J  L e e  M. W a rk e n tin, a n d H   Chung Electronic Commerce: A managerial perspective USA: Prentice hall, 2002 40  U N C TA D  U n ite d N a tion Co nf e r e n c e on T r a d e a nd Development, "E-Commerce and Development Report," UNCTAD, Ed., 2005 41  S Va ta na s a k d a k ul J  D Ambra An Exploratory study of the socio-cultural impact on the adoption of e-commerce for firms in the tourism industry of Thailand, 14th European Conference on Information System, Goteborg, Sweden, 2006 42  S Va ta na s a k d a k ul J  D Ambra A conceptual model for e-commerce adoption in developing countries: a task-technology fit perspective International Journal of Information Technology and Management  vol. 6, no.2-4, 2007 43  D  L  Za ha y a nd R. B. H a ndf ie ld  T he role of le a r ning  and technical capabilities in predicting adoption of B2B technologies," Industrial Marketing Management, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 627, 2004 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


impodt Top Leve M d Ile Level Dom1ain Lave i 1po Scenwd1o Level Figure 8 Ilium Ontology Suite typical It is possible and in fact common to employ only a few of these ontologies in particular studies For example many studies are only concerned with physical platforms and therefore only need the MilAsset ontology which imports IlumAsset IliumFramework and DUL Figure 8 illustrates the existing Ilium Ontology Suite and a typical import pattern for a complex Modeling and Simulation application scenario Currently the illustrated suite less Millnfo MilComm and UAV defines 1240 OWL Classes 274 OWL Object Properties and 188 OWL Datatype Properties 6 AN EXAMPLE APPLICATION We are currently using the described approach to conduct systems requirements and other engineering analyses for military aerospace systems In these investigations it is useful to consider detailed aspects of the system design or software prototype behavior in the context of large scale network-centric military operations In the past year in particular we have assembled a collection of well known and widely accepted military simulations to prepare for an extensive investigation of requirements for autonomy in unmanned military platforms It is believed that useful insights in the study will be sensitive to important details of system behavior supporting sensor platform and communications technologies as well as the combined effects of these technologies on an advanced highly networked military force Thus the study environment must provide a means to reliably model and evaluate significant technical detail and to measure the effects as well as propagation of those effects throughout a broad operational context 11 


I r Z  Figure 9 A Military Modeling and Simulation Configuration of the Ilium Framework To do that we have assembled a collection of trusted military simulations that span the range of such applications from fine-grained simulations that focus on detailed interactions between two entities to coarse-grained simulations of military campaigns Figure 9 illustrates the Ilium Framework configured to accommodate those simulations as well as representative prototype systems In this case the legacy applications are simulations analysis systems and design tools Prototypes are notional UAV autopilots route planners decision support systems and similar applications The Framework augments these applications with control objects and agents that coordinate computations in the composed system and specialize agents that typically represent the characteristics of a new system or technology that cannot be easily or adequately simulated in any of the component legacy systems In our current study the following systems have Ilium Framework plugins and are used as components in the study environment 12 Al f<cOmmi.ain FIa 1A  


THUNDER is a campaign simulation that models national military forces and military operations that extend over months 30  Characteristics of individual systems are evaluated statistically and their effects on the overall campaign are not explicitly known Political social and cultural objects and concepts are not included in the model In this configuration THUNDER is used to generate force level tasking mission orders and to evaluate and adjust for the results of missions with respect to campaign plans SEAS is a force level simulation that simulates battles between major forces in combat operations that typically last for hours and as much as a day SEAS features a flexible rules based decision logic that can influence behavior at both the commander and individual combatant level SEAS executes the missions requested by THUNDER and provides a manageable dynamic context for examining the behavior of prototypes in a range of typical operational situations  31 A dynamic plug-in supports interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components EADSIM is a trusted model of air defense systems that is in particular sensitive to many important design attributes of individual systems In certain modified forms it can reference advanced sensor and engagement decision models In our study configuration EADSIM simulates enemy air defenses in selected e.g significant to our investigation portions of the virtual battle A dynamic plug-in supports system control as well as interaction with the Framework and other pugged-in components A prototype aircraft mission planning system plug-in supports virtual real time mission plan creation and updates In particular the system provides automatic route planning for selected platforms that have been assigned missions by THUNDER and that are subsequently executed in simulation in SEAS and EADSIM The Ilium Framework itself provides software agents that are used to model notional or experimental UAV characteristics and behaviors Depending on the objectives of a particular study the Framework may also provide agents that address advanced Command and Control concepts to coordinate the interaction of the various component systems We maintain a semantic consistency among the plugged-in component applications by developing a single operational scenario as initial input for a study and deriving the necessary application configuration data from that source We create an RDF model of the scenario based on the Ilium suite of ontologies that includes political context issues objectives sensitivities etc military context centers of gravity campaign objectives etc geophysical environment military units order of battle unit equipment lists etc command and control assets platforms weapons ISR systems etc Figure 11 below is an excerpt from an operational scenario set in the Southwest U.S depicting a description of an Air Force Wing assigned to a notional Joint Task Force The Wing is based at Bishop Air Base and has six Fighter Squadrons assigned to it Additional detail about each of those squadrons as well as the base is found in the model in this case an rdf:resource  associated with it morg:AirForceWing rdf:ID="USAF_366 Air_Exp Wg dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#BishopAB_pos morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 390_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_494_Ftr_Sq dc date I 0/20/07</dc date morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF_496 Ftr_Sq rdfs:comment>366 AEW F-22 F-15 KC-135 130]</rdfs:comment morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 389_Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 391 Ftr_Sq morg:assignedOrg rdf:resource="#USAF 495_Ftr_Sq rdfs:label>366 Air Expeditionary Wing</rdfs:label morg:AirForceWing ab9 7P.b ii uI1 L L CFigure 11 An RDF model of a notional USAF Wing Figure 12 is another excerpt from the same scenario illustrating a model of a particular Fighter Squadron and one of the F-15E aircraft it operates Figure 10 Legacy Components in the Ilium Framework 13 suka 


morg:AirliorceSquadron rd:lD U SAF _8 htr Sq rdfs:label>8th Fighter Squadron</rdfs:label geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB_pos msim:hasSeasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA mast:hasModel rdf:resource="#BAFGA rdfs:comment>An F15E Squadron</rdfs:comment dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date dc:creator>Doug Holmes</dc:creator mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB morg:AirForceSquadron F1 5E rdf:ID="F1 5E 05 dul:isReferenceOfRealization rdf:resource="#AirObj ect_2007 mast:equipment-of rdf:resource="#USAF 7 Ftr_Sq dc:creator>Doug Hollmes</dc:creator dc:date>9/26/07</dc:date msim:hasSeasPlane rdf:resource="#F15E mgeo:basedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB geo:positionedAt rdf:resource="#GeorgeAB-pos rdfs:label>F-15E 005</rdfs:label F-15E Figure 12 An RDF model of a Fighter Squadron and one of its aircraft Note that these models also have associated SEAS models that contain information peculiar to the SEAS simulation about these entities This information is used to configure SEAS to properly represent these particular entities We are also able to insert objects and information that may be of interest in our study that is not represented in any of the component simulations or other applications Where those objects are related to an object that is simulated that relationship permits inferences about the effects on them as a result of actions that are computed in a simulation For example it is possible to indicate that GeorgeAB defends the capital city and lend special significance to the actions of aircraft that are based there even though none of the simulations in the composite system have any notion of capital city Finally the operational scenario provides an explicit record of the assumptions that underly the study and can also include and explicit representation of system and study goals This practice improves analysis and may enable future knowledge based analytical tools Throughout the process of constructing the operational scenario and when it is complete we use one or more Description Logic Reasoners to ensure the logical consistency of the the model A number of these automatic theorem provers are freely available including Pellet 32 33 FaCT  34 and OWLIM 35 are used in the Framework to compute logical entailments and to complete RDF models as well as to ensure the consistency of models In the later capacity frequent checks will identify errors in the construction some e.g Pellet also indicate the source of the error and aid in repairing it As a result we are confident that the operational scenario is a sound model The primary use of the Reasoners allows us to significantly extend the explicit RDF model that is created For example a squadron is explicitly specified as assignedTo a wing and that relationship is the inverse of assignedOrg then the system can infer that the wing has the squadron as an assigned organization even though that fact has never been asserted Similarly if the same relationship is defined as a transitive relationship it is possible to infer that a flight that is assigned to the squadron is also assigned to the wing Once we have an operational scenario that has been classified by a Reasoner we then use the completed model to configure the composite system Ilium and the pluggedin systems to execute the simulation We use SPARQL a W3C standard query language designed to access RDFL to extract data from the scenario to create the input files needed to configure the various applications.[36 SELECT name pos long lat alt vis W1HLERE name rdf:type mast SeasLocation name geo:positionedAt pos pos pos:long long pos pos:lat lat pos pos:alt alt name msim:Visible vis  Figure 13 A typical SPARQL query In a similar fashion SPARQL is used to extract data from the scenario to create the necessary Ilium java surrogate control and agents SPARQL can also be used to review the scenario and answer questions that have arisen since the inception of the study At this point we are able execute the scenario with confidence that it will produce reliable results 7 CONCLUSIONS We have developed a methodology and supporting tools for creating an operational scenario that supports the semantic interoperability of an ad hoc collection of legacy applications and extends their capabilities The method depends on and ensures the logical integrity of the composite system Therefore when we assemble as a collection of legacy component systems that were not originally intended to interoperate with other systems we can be confidant that the composite system will produce consistent results Logical consistency implies that to the degree that we trust the interpretation underlying the model the results of operations on the model are trustworthy If for example the model is based on a Newtonian interpretation of physics the model ought to provide reliable answers to questions about automotive and even aeronautical engineering but probably not to all questions in astronomy or cosmology This methodology extends the utility of trusted simulations allowing integration of finegrained simulations that are sensitive to design requirements with high level coarse-grained simulations that are sensitive to acquisition issues and policy The potential benefits of 14 


this sort of interoperation may range from obvious production efficiencies to clearer insights into system requirements Finally an important side-effect of the approach is the OWL/RDF knowledge base formed by the combination of the operational scenario and the results of the operations of the legacy systems That knowledge base and the use of SPARQL queries and SWRL rules effectively expands the functionality of the system and greatly improves the analysis of the output of the system of cooperating simulations and tools We have prepared a foundation for the application of Semantic Web and other knowledge based tools in the analysis and design of unmanned systems We anticipate the development and application of these tools and the addition of autonomy directed Multiple Agent Systems MAS that use RDF/XML inter-agent communications in the coming year REFERENCES 1 NAFCAM 2001 Exploiting EManufacturing:Ineroperability of Software Systems Used by U.S Manufacturers available at 12 Protege Ontology Editor documentation available at http proteae.stanf6rd.edu 13 Top Braid Composer Datasheet available at 14 W and Nicola Guarino 2001 Support for Ontological Analysis of Taxonomic Relationships J Data and Knowled 39\(1 October 2001 15 Natalya F Noy and Deborah L McGuinness Ontology Development 10 1 A Guide to Creating Your First Ontology  Stanford University Stanford CA 94305 16 Alan Rector Modularisation of Domain Ontologies Implemented in Description Logics and related formalisms including OWL K-CAP'03 October 23-25 2003 Sanibel Island Florida USA pp 121-8 2003 17 Cyc Homepage available at htc.c 18 Open Cyc home page available at 19 SUMO Description and Home Page available at 19 SENSUS Description and Home Page available at 2 Bemers-Lee Tim Hendler Jim Lasilla Ora The Semantic Web Scientific American available at 20 DOLCE A Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering ontology and documents available at 3 Bemers-Lee Tim Blog on Design Issues available at 4 RDF Primer available at s chema/#ref-rdf-primer 5 Lacey Lee OWL Representing Information Using the Web Ontology Language Trafford Publishing 2005 6 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at Jten pHomewPage availal adt 7 Jena Home Page available at 8 Protege Home Page available at h1ttp  protegest nftanford.edu,X 1 9 Baader Calvanese McGuiness Nardi and PatelSchnieder Description Logic Handbook 10 Oberle Daniel Semantic Management of Middleware Springer 2006 OWL Web Ontology Language Guide available at 21 Nicola Gauarino Claudio Masolo Stefano Borgo Aldo Gangemi and Alessandro Oltramari Ontology Infrastructure for the Semantic Web Wonder World Deliverable DI 8 Laboratory for Applied Ontology Trento Italy 2001 available on line at ht X1t1 22 DUL.owl ontology available at www.1oa23t og DLl 23 Amy Knutilla Steven Polyak Craig Schlenoff Austin Tate Shu Chiun Cheah Steven Ray and Richard Anderson Process Specification Language An Analysis of Existing Representations NIST report available at http llwww.mel.nlist.gov/msid.librarZ/d.oc/psl-1 _.df 24 Process Specification Language Ontology available at http-//www,55,me l.nit gov/psl 25 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 owl ontology available at ok i.cae.drexel.edu./-wbs/onltology/2004/09/ogc-gmI1 26 Ontology for Geography Markup Language GML3.0 of Open GIS Consortium OGC Home Page available at 15 


 Peter Maguire Using THUNDER for Campaign Studies DSTO-TN-0303 DSTO Melbourne August 2000 28 User Manual SEAS Version 3.7 U.S Air Force SMC/XR February 2007 29 Bijan Parsia and Evren Sirin Pellet and OWL DL Reasoner MINDSWAP Research Group University of Maryland College Park available at 30 Pellet Home Page available at 31 FaCT Home Page available at 32 OWLIM Home Page available at 3 A SPARQL Tutorial available at BIOGRAPHY Douglas Holmes is co-founder and Senior Partner of Java Professionals Inc In the past twenty-two years he has managed and participated in numerous artificial intelligence and knowledge-based programs for DARPA and other research agencies as well as commercial applications in the petroleum and other sectors He is currently developing ontologies and applying Semantic Web technology to support research and development of military unmanned systems He also has over twenty years experience as an Air Force Fighter Pilot and Fighter Weapons School Instructor Mr Holmes has a B.S in Mathematics and Basic Sciences from the U.S Air Force Academy and a M.S in Management Information Systems from Golden Gate University Richard Stocking is the lead Program Investigator/PM for Net Centric Operations Warfare Analysis efforts for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Advanced Development Programs The Skunk WorksTM He is currently leading efforts researching autonomous UAV operations Current efforts include the integration of Multiple Agent Systems and other autonomy systems within the Ilium Framework He has over thirty years experience and over 11,000 flight hours with multiple C4ISR systems in the US Army and US Navy Mr Stocking has a M.S in Systems Technology from the Naval Postgraduate School 16 


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


