 Abstract The dynamic of complex social networks is nowadays one of the research areas of growing importance The knowledge about the temporal changes of the network topology and characteristics is crucial in networked communication systems in which accurate predictions are important. In this paper a physics-inspired method to track the changes within complex social network is proposed. This method is based on the dynamic molecular modelling technique used in physics for simulation of large sets of interacting particles. The data for the conducted research was derived from e-mail communication within big company \(Wroclaw University of Technology\. From this information the social network of employees was extracted. The created social network was utilized to evaluate the methodology of social network dynamics modelling proposed by authors I I NTRODUCTION HE emergence of complex behaviour in a system composed of many interacting elements \(frequently referred to as agents\ one of the most fascinating phenomena of the world and also a prominent area of research. There are many types of complex networked systems, for which we have no commonly accepted definition but there is an agreement that such structure consists of multiple interacting components whose global behaviour cannot be simply inferred from the behaviour of the components h e ele m e nts of t h e n e t w ork are n o t independent beings but they are connected via relationships and in consequence they influence one another. The great challenge is to identify, which component influences the way in which another component behaves. The social networks are the example of such complex systems in which tracking changes is very challenging and resource consuming task Due to the scale and complexity of such systems computer simulations became increasingly popular tool utilized in order to investigate these kind of systems Simulations supplement the traditional approaches  – formal theories and empirical studies, as well as they serve as analytical models, which enable to make certain predictions about the future system’s behaviour. We also face a typical Manuscript received November 14, 2008. The work was supported by The Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education, grant no. N516 037 31/3708 and N N516 264935 K. Juszczyszyn, K. Musia and P. Bródka are with the Institute of Computer Science, Wroclaw University of Technology, Wroclaw, Poland phone: +48 71 320 2116; fax: +48 71 321 1018; e-mails krzysztof.juszczyszyn@pwr.wroc.pl, katarzyna.musial@pwr.wroc.pl piotr.brodka@pwr.wroc.pl A. Musia is with Institute of Physics, Wroclaw University of Technology, Wroclaw, Poland \(e-mail: 146164@student.pwr.wroc.pl trade-off between simulations that take into account the detailed, microscopic description of the system \(which approach, in theory assures the most accurate predictions often with an unacceptable computational overhead\d the minimal set of rules that allows the modelling of system’s evolution It should be noted that many properties of multi-agent systems \(including social systems in which agents stand for social entities\ardly definable in terms of any analytical model. Therefore, computer simulations seem to be the only way to insight into global syst em dynamics [2  So f a r  physics has provided several methodological approaches to tackle this issue. Spatial mobility and concentration of interacting \(via interaction potential like Coulomb forces particles may be modelled with molecular dynamics paradigm. It allows many interesting and applicable extensions based on the reinterpretation of potentials and distance in the given sp T h e propos ition of s u c h  modification is described in details in this article. Another approaches successfully applied to physics, biology evolutionary biology and social sciences are cellular automa f r o m  fa m ous Ga m e of  L i f e arti f i cia l  life model of Conway. Dirk Helbing was one of the first researchers who applied the particle-based approach to social dynamics. In e created a f u n d a m e n tal d y n a m i c model that includes many established models as special cases, e.g. the logistic equation, the gravity model, some diffusion models, the evolutionary game theory and the social field theory, but it also implies numerous new results Moreover, he also presented examples concerning opinion formation, migration, social field theory; the selforganization of behavioural conventions, and the behaviour of customers and voters  According to our best knowledge no computational models for assessing the evolutionary schemes of large realworld internet-based social structures were developed so far In this paper, we propose the application of molecular dynamics to modelling the evolution of large email-based social network. A methodology of constructing the model which serves to predict the changes in large email-based social network is proposed. Moreover, various issues and challenges met while conducting the research are discussed The rest of the paper is structured as follows: the creation of social network on the basis of e-mail data is described in section 2. Section 3 introduces the basic concepts of molecular modelling. The following section 4 presents the molecular simulation that was performed during the experiments. Finally, section 5 defines the procedure of Molecular Dynamics Modelling of the Temporal Changes in Complex Networks Krzysztof Juszczyszyn, Anna Musia Katarzyna Musia Piotr Bródka T 553 978-1-4244-2959-2/09/$25.00 c  2009 IEEE 


discovering the parameters of social network’s molecular model and section 6 includes the experiments conducted on the e-mail based social network derived from the e-mail logs II CREATING AN EMAIL-BASED SOCIAL NETWORK The network that has been chosen for experiments, was extracted from the email logs of Wroclaw University of Technology \(WUT\The experimental data were collected during the period of 21 months \(February 2006 – October 2007\The network was created in the course of the data cleansing process and removing fake and external email addresses. The employees of WUT nodes of the network whereas emails sent to each other by the employees of WUT were used to infer their relationships. These connections between people became edges in the network Note that although every single email provides information about the sender activity, it can simultaneously be sent to many recipients. An email sent to only one person reflects strong attention of the sender directed to this recipient. The same email sent to 20 people does not respect each individual recipient so much. For that reason, the strength of email communication S  x, y rom email user x to y has been defined in the following way        1    1    y x EM card i i y x n y x S   1  where EM  x  y e set of all email messages sent by x to y  n i  x  y the number of all recipients of the i th email sent from x to y  In consequence, every email with more than one recipient is treated as 1 n of a regular one n is the number of its recipients\Although “to-list” recipients are likely to be of much greater message-network importance than “cc-list recipients, both groups are treated in the same way, i.e. just the number of all recipients of the email, regardless that fact in which “to” or “cc” list recipient occurs, are taken into consideration. Such approach result from the fact that the data we obtain does not include information if the recipient of the email is on the “to-list” or “cc-list The strength of the relationship RS  x  y een x and y is calculated as follows         x n y x S y x RS   2  where n  x e total number of emails sent by user x was introduced. The value of this function is from rang  The resulting social network SN  N, RS is defined as a tuple consisting of the set of network nodes N and a set of weighted relationships RS  N  N 0,1 gi ve n b y t h e equation 2. The social distance between two neighbouring nodes is defined as the value of RS complemented to one The above scheme will serve as input data to create 60 temporal images of social network addressed in section 6 III D YNAMIC M OLECULAR M ODELLING Dynamic molecular modelling is one of simulation methods widely used in physics. Simulations are very important because of the fact that many physical problems are too complex to obtain an analytical solution for them. One of them is a class called many-body problems. Whenever we are interested in a dynamic of physical system that contains of many interacting objects we are dealing with a manybody problem. Molecular dynamic modelling is a powerful method that serves to describe the characteristics of such systems as well as their current and future behaviour.. It is important that starting point for those simulations is a microscopic scale \(a position and velocity of each particle but it provides a macroscopic characteristics of the system obtained based on rules and laws of statistical mechanics e.g. temperature, energy, specific heat of the system etc Each physical system consists of many interacting objects e.g. particles and their initial positions and velocity must be set in order to start simulations. They can be chosen freely Two conditions need to be fulfilled before the simulation will be launched:  \(i\wo particles cannot have the same position and \(ii\e overall velocity of the system in each direction should be equal zero. This ought to be done to assure on the one hand that the system is not moving as a whole, but on the other hand that each part of it is moving independently One of the physical parameter of the system is the density of the particles that is defined as V N     3  where N the number of particles \(in our case: the nodes of social network V the size of the system \(volume for three dimensions and area for two The density is important, because it gives information about the state of the system \(whether it is a solid, liquid or gas\. On the other hand, there are some simulation parameters: the value and number of time steps. Moreover the interaction between particles should be described. The interaction is usually given by a two-particle potential meaning that each two particles are interacting\, which depends on the distance between the particles and some characteristics of objects in the system \(e.g. their mass charge etc.\r approach assumes that the potential reflects the tendency of two particles \(nodes\hange their distance in social space. The potential is commonly known as an analytical formula obtained from either theory or experiment \(phenomenologicaly\, e.g. Coulomb potential for charged particles, Lenard-Jones’s potential. During our experiments the character of the potential will be estimated on the basis of the given history of social network \(past evolution which is known\ased on the potential the force acting between particles can be calculated using the following formula 554 2009 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2009 


U F    4  where U the interaction potential If the force is known, the time evolution of the system can be obtained by solving for each particle separately the classical equation of motion \(2 nd Newton’s principle of dynamics  F dt dp   5  where p the momentum of the particle F a vector sum of forces from all other particles in  the system For objects with constant mass this formula takes the following form 2 2 dt r d m a m F    6  by using the definition of the momentum and acceleration a which is defined as a second derivative of the position vector r ring the simulation above equation must be solved for each particle in each simulation step. This set of equations are solved by numerical integration using existing algorithms \(e.g. Euler’s method, Verlet’s algorithm This method is fully deterministic and allows to predict changes of particles’ positions in time – the time evolution of considered system. The unquestionable advantage of molecular dynamic modelling is that the simulation step is directly connected with time, so we are able to obtain the time evolution of the system in contrary to other simulation methods, e.g.  Monte Carlo simulation IV M OLECULAR SIMULATION To verify the created molecular model \(see Section 3 theoretically obtained data are needed. It is possible to calculate the positions of all particles after given time using the Verlet’s algorithm. Input data indispensable for starting the algorithm are: initial positions of all particles, number of particles, formula for interaction force between each two particles. The number of time steps and the time interval between those steps can also be set. Usage of an additional parameter is possible – it is called the cut-off radius and defines the nearest neighbourhood for each and every particle, meaning the maximum distance of influence. The assumption is that if two particles that are away from each other for a distance bigger than the cut-off radius, do not interact. This parameter is extremely important for large simulation when the number of particles is too big for taking all interactions into consideration This radius should be large enough to treat the interactions with more distant particles as unimportant. It is possible to introduce this parameter only if the interactions shows short-range character The essential part of the procedure, from the conceptual point of view, is the formula used to describe interactions between the particles. This force is identical for all two interacting particles within the system. Additionally, this force depends only on the distance between the particles. To model the described system the Lennard-Jones potential is utilized    6 12 4 r r r V     7  where r the distance between particles The character of the potential is shown below \(Fig. 1 Fig. 1 Lennard-Jones potential Above potential is fully described by two parameters: the depth of the potential  responsible for  the strength of interactions between particles  and  related to the minimum distance between to particles. As it can be seen the potential has a global minimum equal  for r min 2 1/6 1 12  Other characteristic features of this potential are as follows: \(i\when the distance between the particles grows to infinity the value of the potential aims zero asymptotically, \(ii\or smaller distances the particles are attracting each other. In such a case the potential gains the minimum, which is the most stable configuration. For distances smaller then  the character of the potential changes to strongly repulsive To obtain the formula for the force between two interacting particles the partial derivative of potential should be taken. It can be easily calculates analytically           8 14 2 8 14 2 48 48 ij ij j i ij y ij ij j i ij x r r y y r F r r x x r F          8  where x  y mark the particular component of the force vector r ij is the distance between two interacting particles 2009 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2009 555 


The next step is to transform the forces into dimensionless form. This way the magnitude of used values, normally extremely small, are better represented in a computer and the operations on them can be more precise. To do this the distances are introduced in  units and time in    48 2 m  where m is the mass of interacting particles. As a first approximation the masses of all particles are taken equal 1 Now as the interaction force between each two particles is known we can move on to the Verlet’s algorithm. This algorithm is used to integrate the equation of motion for each and every particle in the system F dt r d m  2 2  9  The second derivative should be discretized using e.g. the three-point formula based on the Tylor’s expansion. The algorithm allows us to obtain the position and the velocity of each particle in following time steps  h m h t F t F t v h t v h m t F h t v t r h t r             2         2       2  10  where h the magnitude of the time step The main part of the algorithm is the time step loop. First the initial forces acting on each particle on the basis of their initial positions are calculated. The force acting on a single particle is the sum of forces originating from all the other particles in the system. After that, the positions of the particles can be calculated. The new positions are used to obtain the forces in an actual step which are required for velocity calculations, because positions depend only on variables’ values in the previous time step whereas the velocities depend also on the forces in the actual time step This procedure is repeated in every time step. As an output this algorithm returns the positions and velocities \(velocities are not crucial for the interpretation in our case, at least during the first experiments\ of all particles in the system in following time steps To compare the experimental data with model discussed above the positions of the particles should be generated for the same time step as in the experiment. Then the standard deviation of the two data series for each time step need to be calculated and optimized. By optimization process the adjustment to the experimental data is understood. This can be proceed by optimizing the value of the parameters of the Lennard-Jones potential. Values of this parameters can be changed in wide range to minimize the standard deviation between the theoretical and experimental data V M OLECULAR MODEL OF SOCIAL NETWORK Application of the molecular dynamics to social network modelling requires completing several tasks which will be defined in the further subsections The overall methodology assumes the four main stages 1. Creating temporal images of social network 2. Embedding created social network graph in 2D 3D Euclidean space 3. Estimating the character of social force potential between network nodes 4. Using dynamic molecular modelling to predict the evolution of the network A Creating temporal images of the social network It should be emphasized that the social network derived from the e-mail logs is not a static structure. The existence of any link in such a graph \(i.e. relationship\ is a result of a series of discrete events \(sending e-mail messages\ which occur in certain moments and \(usually\ with changing frequency. We may also think of the computed relationships’ strengths as of the social distance between network members \(nodes Greater RS reflects smaller distance in social space. In order to track changes in relationship strength we used the sliding time frame approach. Mail server log data from the period of 21 months \(February 2006 - October 2007\were divided into frames covering one month each, and starting in consecutive moments which differ by ten days This allowed the creation of 60 social network graphs SN  t 0  SN  t 1  SN  t n here t 0 t 1  t n are discrete moments of time and each network is created \(according to the procedure defined in section 3 on the basis of one-month period starting in t 0 t 1  t n In our case t 0  the 1 st of February, 2006  The networks SN  t 0  SN  t 1  SN  t n poral images of evolving social structure which was build on the basis of the entire 21 months-long email communication The relationship strengths are computed for each network separately The similar approach was utilized in w h ere th e  temporal changes of betweenness centrality were tracked for organizational email network of 262 users. The time frame of 30 days moving by one day was used. In our case, due to the size of the system and observed behaviour of several users \(who happened to be inactive for weeks, for example we decided to increase its speed to ten days per step B Embedding networks in Euclidean space Following the in-depth discussion presented in w e  cannot expect the social space to be metric i.e. the triangle inequality between any three nodes may not be fulfilled. On the other hand, molecular modelling assumes the interaction between the particles moving in the Euclidean space. For this reason, in order to apply the molecular modelling we must conduct embedding of the social network graph in metric Euclidean 2D space Numerous methods for completing this task were developed so far; the best will be chosen in the course of 556 2009 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2009 


experiments, good candidates were proposed in s oc a lle d Big-Bang embedding algorithm\ an a f a st  m e t h od f o r creating 2D representations of large graphs, which consists of two steps: embedding the graph in a very high dimension usually associated with the number of nodes- and then project it into the 2D plane using principal components analysis In this step we embed the graphs SN  t 0  SN  t 1  SN  t n n Euclidean 2D space, where each node is represented by a point with given coordinates. The resulting sets of points SN 0  SN 1  SN n represent the temporal network images Embedding algorithm assures us that the Euclidean distances between points \(nodes\ fit in the best possible way the distances in a social space \(relation strengths in original graphs\ the representation of social system in which the network is seen as an assembly of N particles \(the nodes of social network\. The procedure we have chosen for our experiments was a classic multidimensional scaling algorithm \(MDS  ltidi m ension al scali ng defines a call of methods often used in information visualization and exploring similarities or dissimilarities in data. An MDS algorithm starts with a matrix of similarities between objects \(similarity relation doesn’t have to be symmetrical\en assigns a location of each item in a lowdimensional space. In other words – it estimates the coordinates of a set of objects in a space of specified dimensionality on the basis of measuring the distances which, however do not have to be metric\ between pairs of objects. A variety of models can be used that include different ways of computing distances and various functions relating the distances to the actual data. We computed a square non-symmetical \(because our graph is directed matrix of the distances between the nodes in social graph as an input for the MDS procedure C Setting up the dynamic molecular model Because the sets of network nodes in SN  t 0  SN  t 1  SN  t n are equal, each point \(node\ represented in any of the sets SN 0  SN 1  SN n In fact, in email-based social network it doesn’t have to be so, but to check our model we excluded users which were not continually active \(about 10 of all\from our analysis. It is planned to model dynamic sets of the users in the future model development. active However the position of each node, depending of its  distances to other points, is subject to change. We may think of these points as of the particles moving in result of interactions \(email communication\ between them At this point we use the formalism of molecular dynamics see section 3\sociate a force potential U with any particle \(network node\he actual characteristic of this potential depends on the behaviour of the particles changing their positions in time instants t 0 t 1  t n First experiments were carried using standard Lennard-Jones potential function. The analysis of server logs has revealed some features of the dynamics of email communication – the growing intensity of communication is always followed by the periods of less frequent email activity. This resembles the repelling force emerging between particles when their distance becomes less then some r min We noticed that intense e-mail communication \(which results in very small distances in social graph\ is never sustained for longer time From the other hand fading communication is \(in most cases\ followed by frequent message exchanges. It should be stressed that the Lenard-Jones potential was used only for first experiments, in the next steps we intend to develop social network-specific potential function on the basis of available data The force potentials introduced in section IV allow us to simulate the changes between communication patterns in consecutive time instants. The force potentials associated with the nodes reflect their abilities and tendency to establish future connections with the neighbours – the nodes which are close in terms of social space \(thus changing the distances in social space which is analogous to the behaviour of particles moving under influence of electrical/gravitational forces\at this approach allows also general interpretations because “being close in 2D social space” does not imply direct connection between nodes \(users\elonging to the same clique of the social graph has similar effect VI E XPERIMENTS The experiments were conducted in order to track the temporal changes in the network structure. This was performed by utilizing the time frame of 30 days moving by 10 days. A set of 60 separate \(partially overlapping, as in  f r am e s  w a s created f r o m th e e m ail log s  g a th ered in t h e period of February 2006 – October 2007. As stated above, in order to enable modelling the dynamics via the molecular simulation the users who were active in all 60 periods were chosen and this resulted in the creation of the set of 262 users and the relationships existed between them. This subnetwork was used in the further stages of our experiments Fig. 2 presents the results of running non-metric MDS procedure on the matrix of distances between social graph nodes Fig. 2 Initial positions of 262 particles 2009 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2009 557 


Molecular simulation was run on the set of particles with initial coordinates as showed on the Fig.2 and assuming that their interactions were characterized by standard LennardJones potential function. However, first results have shown that the exponent 14 in one of the terms of Equation 8 has to be decreased. It was responsible for rapidly growing repelling force between particles close to each other and has to be decreased to 10. After this change in the definition of the potential the system became stable thus allowing further simulations The configuration of particles moving in social space after 100 time steps in shown on Fig.3 Fig. 3 Positions after 100 time steps As we may see from comparing Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, the configuration of particles is stable, however their relative positions are changing. The analysis of the results of the first 100 time steps of molecular simulations allowed drawing interesting conclusions about the behavior of the systems of social particles First, there is one important information which cannot be inferred from the above picture. Small number of particles less then 6% of the total 262\ located far outside the area visible on Fig. 3, in few cases with their coordinates exceeding 1.0E+10. This observation led to analysis of their and – afterwards, of all the others\ as the elements of the social graph. We noted that in the case of low node centrality \(i.e. equaling one\he social distance metric may assign extremely close distance between low centrality node and its neighbour.  An interesting conclusion is that the accuracy of the molecular model depends on the position of the nodes within the social graph. We observed that  Nodes with minimal \(i.e. equaling 1\n- and out-degree centrality \(connected only to one neighbor in social network\ when moved to social 2D space tend to approach the other nodes \(particles\ to very short distances. Apparently, this reflects the fact that their relative distance is based only on single social relation This in turn results frequently in the emergence of large repelling force. The particle gains high speed and is thrown out – after that it moves along linear path, in our case the length of simulations was not enough to cause such a particle return in result of attracting force coming from interaction of the others. Obviously, this is not a behavior observed in social space and this feature should be carefully addressed during the future experiments  On the other hand, nodes with high degree centrality were observed to be stable during the interactions with the others In order to check the ability of our model to predict the social distances between particles we checked if there are correlations between node-to-node distances stored in distance matrices generated for all 60 temporal images of considered social network and the distances in 2D social space in consecutive steps of simulation. This was done separately for the four classes of nodes  Class 1 Nodes with degree centrality equaling one. \(with only single connection existing between them and the rest of the network  Class 2 Nodes with high in-degree centrality \(many – at least two – relations pointing to them, zero or one outcoming relations  Class 3 Nodes with high out-degree centrality \(many at least two – relations originating in given node, zero or one incoming relations  Class 4 Nodes with balanced in- and out-degree centrality both equaling at least two In all cases distances between any given node and all its counterparts in the network were computed for all temporal images of social network and the equal number of time steps of the molecular simulation. These vectors of distances were compared using the Pearson correlation coefficient. The average results for the members of the all considered classes are as follows  Class 1 0.0794  Class 2  0.3726  Class 3  0.4311  Class 4  0.6617 We may see that there is visible correlation between the predictions of the model and the behavior of the particles/nodes well-connected to the network. It maybe explained by their communication patterns being dependent from the other members of the community. For the nodes characterized by broadcast type of communication \(outdegree hubs\ or information sinks \(in-degree hubs\ this correlation is not so strong, however visible The communication patterns of the nodes loosely connected to the network are not predictable in terms of the proposed model, their behavior is independent from their network counterparts. During forthcoming experiments this phenomena will be addressed by redefining the social force potential function \(in order to better reflect the data gathered as stated in sec. V.B\d altering the 2D embedding procedure VII C ONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK The results presented above are preliminary and 558 2009 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2009 


summarize the first experiments on creating the predictive evolutionary model for large internet-based social networks The same formalism may be also applied to other social networks based on communication technologies, for example, network of mobile phone users etc. There are many details which have to be addressed during future works and experiments. Among them the most important are  Force potential issues The actual shape and equation of the force potential characteristic for given network should be estimated by analysing the history of interactions between pairs of users \(nodes, particles we used “classic”, modified version of the Lennard-Jones potetial. The question if there is one definition of the potential which may be applied to all members of the network remains open  Choosing the time step of the molecular simulation In the case of our first experiments we analysed only simple correlations between changes in the distances in social space and communication graphs of time-changing social network  Dynamically changing sets of network nodes Fading and emergence of the nodes is the usual phenomena in social networks. The future versions of our framework will take it into account as well  2D social graph embedding procedure There are other options which may be applied instead of the MDS used in our simulations. They may also affect the results and the accuracy of the model Future experiments will be carried on larger social networks \(data sets based on logs from a 5000-users corporate server are being prepared for the forthcoming research\d will be preceded by developing methods of tuning the potential equations and the length of time steps The approach proposed in th is article aims to predict the evolution of social net-work of arbitrary size on the basis of known records. The existence of email-based social networks gives us the opportunity to use precise data \(mail server logs\which hold information about the activity of users. As a result it was possible to propose a computational approach with good simulation potential and compatible with known solutions from complex systems field Additionally, our approach was general and may be applied to any internet-based social network \(their size and the length of history records do not impact the procedure However, there are also several challenges and questions that must be answered in order to apply the method with required accuracy A CKNOWLEDGMENT The work was supported by The Polish Ministry of Science and Higher Education, grant no. N N516 264935 R EFERENCES 1 H o l l a nd J  H i d d e n O r de r  H o w  A d ap tat io n B u il ds  Co m p l e x ity H e l i x Books, USA, 1995 2 S c h w e i t zer  F  B r ow n i a n A g en t s and A c t i v e P a r t i c les   C o llec t i v e  Dynamics in the Natural and Social Sciences, Sporinger Series in Synergetics, New York, 2007 3 B o cal e tti a S  e t al   Co m p l e x ne tw o r ks  S t r u c t ur e a n d dy nam i cs    Physics Reports 424 \(2006\ 175 – 308 4 W ei d l i c h W  P h y s i c s an d S o c i a l S c i e nc e – Th e A p p r oa ch of  Synergetics, Physical Reports, \(204\-163, 1991 5 W ol f r am S  T h e o ry and A ppl ic at io n o f Ce l l u l a r  A u to m a ta W o r l d Scientific, Singapore, 1986 6 W atts D  S m al l W o rl ds  Dy nam i c o f N e tw o r ks be tw e e n O r de r and  Randomness, Princeton University Press, 2002 7 B a y s C  C a ndi da t e s for t h e ga m e  of li fe i n t h ree d i m e n s i o n s  C o m p lex Systems, 1\(2\:373-400,  1987 8 S h a vit t Y T a nk el T   B i g-Ba n g S i m u la ti on for E m b e d d i n g Net w ork  Distances in Euclidean Space, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, 12\(6\ 2004 9 H a r el D   K O R E N Y   G r a p h  Dra w i n g b y  Hi gh Di m en si ona l Embedding, Journal of Graph Algorithms and Applications 8\(2 2004  Da n g a l ch ev C  G e n e ra t i on M o d e ls for S c a l e-fre e N e t w ork s  P h y s i c a A  338 \(2004\ 659 – 671  W a t t s D  St roga t z S  C o lle c t i v e Dy n a mi c s of Sma ll W o r l d Ne t w o r k s   Nature, 393, 440-442 12 Car r i n g t o n P S c o t t J W a sse r m an S   e ds Mo de l s an d Me t h o d s i n  Social Networks Analysis, Cambridge University Press, 2005  J  B  K r u s ka l Mu lt id i m en s i ona l s c a lin g b y op t i m i z in g good n e s s of-fi t  to a non-metric hypothesis, Psychometrika, 29, str. 1-27, 1964 14 D y ne s S G l o o r P L a ubac h e r R Z h ao Y  T e m p o r al V i sual iz a tio n  and Analysis of Social Networks, NAACSOS Conference, Pittsburgh PA, June 27 - 29, 2004 15 K r us kal  J  B a n d W i s h  M  Mul t i d i m e ns io nal S c al ing  S a g e  University Paper series on Quantitative Application in the Social Sciences, 07-011. Beverly Hills and London: Sage Publications, 1978 16 Br o n s t e i n, A  M, Br o n s t e i n M M and K i m m e l  R., G e ne r a l i z e d  multidimensional scaling: a framework for isometry-invariant partial surface matching, Proc. National Academy of Sciences \(PNAS\ Vol 103/5, 2006, pp. 1168-1172 17 Be r g e r W o l f T  Y S a ia J A  F r am ew o r k f o r  A n aly s i s o f Dy nam i c  Social Networks, Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining 2006, Philadelphia, PA, USA  Helb i n g D  Qu ant i t a t i v e Soc i od y n a m i c s  St och a s t ic M e th od s  a nd Models of Social Interaction Processes, Springer, Theory and Decision Library Series B: Mathematical and Statistical Methods, Vol 31 2009 IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation CEC 2009 559 


  0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 H norm F P  R a t e  Figure 4 FP rate by entropy measure for HTML                  0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 16 32 48 64 80 96 112 128 144 160 176 192 208 224 240                    10 20 30 40 50 60 70  t 48 t 16 Popul ar i t y Scor e Rank Score  Offset                             0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 0 16 32 48 64 80 96 112 128 144 160 176 192 208 224 240                    10 20 30 40 50 60 70  t 48 t 16 Popul ar i t y Scor e Rank Score  Offset  Figure 5 Rank and popularity scores for a 320-byte snippet L 320 B 64 W 64  0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 5 152535455565758595 Data Overlap C o m m o n  F e a t u r e s 64-16 64-24 64-32 64-40 64-48 64-56 64-64  Figure 6 Feature selection performance on random data Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


 Therefore, we could choose the doc distribution as our reference point and use it on all the sets. Going back to Figure 1, we can see that it almost serves as a composite of the rest with several local peaks. Actual data will effectively mask out parts of the ranking e.g. compressed data will have little use for entropy ranks to the left of its bell, whereas text data will not need anything to the right of its bell The answer to the second question is a confident yes even random data exhibits a bell-shaped distribution of entropy scores so even within a relatively small of window of 64-128 bytes, a few of the features are likely to stand out as statistically improbable, relative to the rest  6. Measuring File Similarity  We are now ready to go back to our original problem of finding similar objects. To establish a baseline measurement of the effectiveness of the described methods, we ran a controlled experiment using random data and known amounts of overlapping content. Specifically, we used two randomly generated files and produced mixed versions of them in the following fashion: take x  percent of file #1 and mix with 100x percent from file #2. The mixing was done in blocks of 512 bytes and we used 21 values for x 0, 5, 10 100. Note that we selected the blocks at random so even the 100% case is not an identical file but a file containing the same data block in a random permutation Further, we fixed W 64, and varied t from 16 to 64 with a step of 8. Figure 6 summarizes the results As we can see from the chart, the number of common features increases linearly with the increase of the amount of data in common and the slope of the increase is determined by the threshold parameter t  Generally, a lower the value for t means that more features are retained, whereas a higher value selects fewer features and improves compression. In this case t 16 retains an average \(over the different runs\ 847 features, whereas t 64 only 110. Using an MD5 hash to compress the feature representation would mean that our storage requirements would be 13,552 and 7,040 bytes, respectively. This yields corresponding compression ratios of 3.8:1 and 7.2:1 that can be further improved 10 times by using a Bloom filter with 10 bits per element and 0.8% FP rate. Further reductions are possible by selecting a bigger value for W such as 128, 256, 512 The above results can readily be replicated for compressed data types such as jpg, pdf and gz For text, the results are quite similar for unrelated text however, things like style and common topic do tend to yield higher results as the syntactic similarity increases. Generally, the results for non-random data need to be evaluated with respect a baseline FP rate which is relatively straightforward to obtain from a representative set of files. Alternatively, one could use the set to generate a set of duplicate features and ignore them in the actual data A large-scale experimental validation of an early prototype implementation on 4.6GB of real data Table 1\ is the subject of a separate paper. In summary, we were able to detect files within simulated network traffic based on a single packet with 0.9987 to 0.9844 accuracy \(depending on file type\or feature size of 64 and threshold of 16. Our current implementation is capable of 100MB/s sustained throughput on a quad-core processor this includes feature selection, feature hashing, and comparison with a reference set. We expect that an improved implementation would need no more than two cores to sustain that rate  7. Conclusions  In this paper, we presented a new approach to selecting syntactic features for similarity measurements. Our work makes the following contributions   Through empirical data, we have shown that a basic entropy measure can provide a valuable guideline with respect to the uniqueness of a particular feature   We have shown that different data types exhibit different behavior and that similarity measures can be tuned to keep a lid on overall false positive rate   We proposed a new method for selecting characteristic features that does not rely on a Rabin scheme to be content-sensitive. Instead we use an entropy measure and empirical distribution data to sel ect statistically improbable features   The new method is very stable and predictable with the respect to the coverage it produces, and unlike previous work, can easily be tuned to the underlying data  In the immediate future we plan to full develop a practical, high-performance tool that can be used to correlate evidence on a large scale      Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


 8. References  1  B. Bloom Space/Time Tradeoffs in Hash Coding with Allowable Errors  Communications of the ACM  vol 13 no 7, pp. 422-426, 1970 2  S. Brin, J. Davis, H. Garcia-Molina Copy detection mechanisms for digital documents In Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Annual Conference San Francisco, CA, May 1995 3  A. Broder, M. Mitzenmacher Network Applications of Bloom Filters: A Survey  Internet Mathematics  vol 1 no 4, pp. 485-509, 2005 4  A. Broder, S. Glassman, M. Manasse, and G. Zweig Syntactic Clustering of the Web In Proceedings of the 6 th International World Wide Web Conference pp 393-404, 1997 5  M. S. Charikar Similarity Estimation Techniques from Rounding Algorithms  In Proceedings of the 34 th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing 2002 6  C. Y. Cho, S. Y. Lee, C. P. Tan, and Y. T. Tan Network forensics on packet fingerprints. 21st IFIP Information Security Conference \(SEC 2006 Karlstad, Sweden, 2006 7  Henziger, M Finding Near-Duplicate Web Pages: A Large-Scale Evaluation of Algorithms In Proceedings of the 29 th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research & Development on Information Retrieval Seattle 2006 8  R. Karp, M. Rabin. "Efficient randomized patternmatching algorithms". IBM Journal of Research and Development 31 \(2\249-260, 1987 9  A. Kirsch, M. Mitzenmacher Distance-Sensitive Bloom Filters  Proceedings of the Algorithms Engineering, and Experiments Conference ALENEX 2006 10  J. Kornblum Identifying almost identical files using context triggered piecewise hashing  Proceedings of the 6 th Annual DFRWS Aug 2006, Lafayette, IN 11  U. Manber. Finding similar files in a large file system In Proceedings of the USENIX Winter 1994 Technical Conference, pages 1-10, San Fransisco, CA, USA 1994 12  M. Mitzenmacher Compressed Bloom Filters  IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networks 10:5, pp. 613620, October 2002 13  K. Monostori, R. Finkel, A. Zaslavsky, G. Hodasz, M Pataki Comparison of Overlap Detection Techniques In Proceedings of the 2002 International Conference on Computational Science Amsterdam The Netherlands, \(I\pp 51-60, 2002 14  M. Ponec, P, Giura, H. Brnnimann, J. Wein Highly Efficient Techniques for Network Forensics, In Proceedings of the 14th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, 2007 Alexandria, Virginia 15  H. Pucha, D. Andersen, M. Kaminsky Exploiting Similarity for Multi-Source Downloads using File Handprints In Proceedings of the Forth USENIX NSDI, Cambridge, MA. Apr, 2007 16  M. O. Rabin Fingerprinting by random polynomials Technical report 15-81, Harvard University, 1981 17  S. Rhea, K. Liang, and E. Brewer. Value-based web caching. In Proceedings of the Twelfth International World Wide Web Conference, May 2003 18  V. Roussev, Y. Chen, T. Bourg, G. G. Richard III md5bloom Forensic filesystem hashing revisited  Proceedings of the 6 th Annual DFRWS Aug 2006 Lafayette, IN 19  V. Roussev, G. Richard III and L. Marziale, "Multiresolution similarity hashing", Proceedings of the Seventh Digital Forensic Research Workshop, 2007 20  K. Shanmugasundaram, H. Bronnimann, N. Memon Payload Attribution via Hierarchical Bloom Filters  Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Communication and Computer Security CCS'04 2004 21  N. Shivakumar and H. Garcia-Molina SCAM: a copy detection mechanism for digital documents In Proceedings of the International Conference on Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries June 1995 22  N. Shivakumar, H. Garcia-Molina Building a scalable and accurate copy detection mechanism In Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Digital Libraries March 1996\, 160-168 23  N. Shivakumar, H. Garcia-Molina Finding nearreplicas of documents on the web In Proceedings of the Workshop on Web Databases March 1998\ 204212 24  S. Schleimer, D. S. Wilkerson, and A. Aiken Winnowing: local algorithms for document fingerprinting. In SIGMOD '03: Proceedings of the 2003 ACM SIGMOD international conference on management of data, pages 76-85, New York, NY USA, 2003. ACM Press Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


This figure presents the data flow through main blocks that can be used a few times and special blocks that must execute only particular functions Here also Configurator of chain and Sequences library for WiMAX/UMTS modules are equipped First one is responsible for right construction of next processing path and second one stores necessary number of elements After signal verification system is reconfigured according to input data and with using the chosen protocol type The OUTPUT connects to radio link and then signal must be transmitted over one of six channel types And at the reception side we configure the receiver in relation to transmitted mode 5 HARDWARE PLATFORM SELECTION Current technologies in a hardware environment allow to test our system in real-time implementation There are a couple of DSP based platforms that can be selected for validation from Lyrtech Inc the Small Form Factor SFF Software Communication Architecture SCA Development the Small Form Factor SFF Softwaredefined Radio SDR Development Platform the Small Form Factor SFF Software-defined Radio SDR Evaluation Module 20 All these platforms are based on TMS320DM6446 DMP SoC from Texas Instruments 21 For the proposed SDR based system we chose the SFFSDR Evaluation board see Figure 13 as far as this platform supports WiMAX technology model based design tools accelerating prototyping implementation of all protocols layers for complete radio stacking extra boards operates with 297MHz ARM926EJ-s RISC CPU and 594MHz C64x DSP in sense of power management this module has MSP430 MCU Due to an availability of Virtex-4 SX35 FPGA from Xilinx 22 this module can perform implementation of full modem processing functions that is very important feature in meaning of multi-protocol architecture of our system We are able to vary our requirements to each protocol inside the same hardware structure Figure 13 SFF SDR development platform by Lyrtech 6 PROTOTYPING THE WiMAX/UMTS SYSTEM The WiMAX/UMTS system is implemented in high-level language as C with the class library The main accent was done on the correct form of the signal processing sequence The path for WiMAX or UMTS signal is determined in the beginning and system should verify its entity leads the system in a relevant direction The main goal of this software implementation is to check how our system can handle the input signal sequence The simulation was carried out for following parameters for each subsystem For UMTS we consider transport block with 1280 bits size frame size is 2400 bits channelization code with 16 chips sequence For WiMAX we generate the bit block is equal to 1280 bits however during channel coding operation this block is divided on turbo coding block that include 384 bits The size of turbo coding block forms from the block determination corresponding modulation type and number of subchannels During software verification we obtained that our proposed model can separate different paths subject to a type of an inter sequence in the software environment The framework of our WiMAX/UMTS system went through one scenario step and now we are directed to an extension of this model For the more detailed system visualization we integrate our C code modules into MATLAB library by means of proper dynamic linking libraries dll compiled by using the MATLAB C compiler Each block can be formed with extended parameters Modules with C code configurate the system work in a host This host implementation will present a prototype This prototype will help to analyze future real-time hardware implementation MATLAB prototype can also provide debugging of real system the result of real system must be equal to our MATLAB prototype Next step of the work development and verification is to implement it into the hardware platform based on DSP DSP based platform allows to organize signal processing in a digital presentation that serves SDR based part of our general system 7 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK In this paper we considered the framework of WiMAX/UMTS baseband level system for mobile device in UL transmission direction We presented the different signal processing structures based on OFDM and WCDMA physical layer procedures Our research work is mainly devoted to developing the approach of seamless switching between different subsystems that can be realized by SDR technology implementation To this end we proposed a possible solution to allow coexistence of different data transmission technologies 11 


The position of SDR blocks in common UMTS/WiMAX architecture for mobile terminal was shown in this paper We presented the different blocks of each subsystem and have identified three blocks which can be implemented as common SDR blocks These blocks include channel coding module interleaver module and data mapping module We also demonstrated the work of our system in the software environment Next steps of the UMTS/WiMAX system development are preparation of the specification and implementation of all possible scenarios Each scenario will include particular blocks parameters and common description of main blocks But we have to be carefully in case of main blocks description because there are a plenty of features 8 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We gratefully acknowledge the company Arslogica that kindly provided us the hardware support for our experimental studies 9 REFERENCES 1 A Samukic UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System development of standards for the third generation Proc of 1998 IEEE GLOBECOM Conf Sydney AUS Nov 8-12 1998 vol.4 pp.19761983 2 N Fourty T Val P Fraisse and J.-J Mercier Comparative analysis of new high data rate wireless communication technologies From Wi-Fi to WiMAX Proc of the IEEE Autonomic and Autonomous Systems and International Conf on Networking and Services ICAS-ICNS 05 Oct 23-28 2005 pp.66-66 3 M Komara SDR Architecture Ideally Suited for Evolving 802.16 WiMAX AirNet Communications SDR Forum Exhibition 2004 4 I Held 0 Klein A Chen C.-Y Huang and V Ma Receiver Architecture and Performance of WLAN Cellular Multi-Mode and Multi-Standard Mobile Terminals Proc of 2004 IEEE VTC Fall Conf Los Angeles CA Sept 26-29 2004 vol 3 pp 2248 2253 5 IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Part 16 Air Interface for Fixed Broadband Wireless Access Systems 2004 6 R Weigel and L Maurer  D Pimingsdorfer A Springer RF Transceiver Architectures for W-CDMA Systems Like UMTS State of the Art and Future Trends Proc of the Intern Symp on Acoustic Wave Devices for Future Mobile Communication Systems Chiba JP March 5-7 2001 pp 25-34 7 P-W Fu and K.C Chen A Programmable Transceiver Structure of Multi-rate OFDM-CDMA for Wireless Multimedia Communications Proc of 2001 IEEE Vehicular Technology Conf VTC-Fall 2001 Atlantic City NJ Oct.7-11 2001 vol 3 pp 1942-1946 8 L Zhigang L Wei Z Yan G Wei A Multi-standard SDR Base Band Platform Proc of 2003 International Conference on Computer Networks and Mobile Computing Shanghai PRC Oct 20-23 2003 pp 461 464 9 C Moy A A Kountouris L Rambaud and P Le Corre  Full Digital IF UMTS Transceiver for Future Software Radio Systems  Proc of ERSA 01 Conf Las Vegas NV June 25-28 2001 10 3GPP TS 25.201 Physical layer general description 11 K.R Santhi and G.S Kumaran Migration to 4 G Mobile IP based Solutions Proc of International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services/Advanced International Conference Feb 2006 pp 76 76 12 S Zhu M Song Y Li J Song and F Ren Simulation platform of WCDMA based on software defined radio Proc of 2nd ACM International Conference on Mobile Technology Applications and Systems Nov 2005 pp 1-5 13 L Ma and D Jia The Competition and Cooperation of WiMAX WLAN and 3G Proc of 2nd International Conference on Mobile Technology Applications and Systems Nov 2005 pp 15 14 J Mitola III Software Radio Architecture ObjectOriented Approaches to Wireless Systems new ed Wiley New York 2004 15 R Seungwan 0 Donsung S Gyungchul and K Han Perspective of the next generation mobile communications and services Proc of IEEE 2004 Int Symp on Personal Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications PIMRC 2004 Barcelona SP 5-8 Sept 2004 vol.1 pp 643-647 16 E Biglieri Coding for Wireless Channels  Springer New York 2005 12 


17 3GPP TS 25.212 Multiplexing and channel coding FDD 18 IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part 16 Air Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband Wireless Access Systems Amendment 2 Physical and Medium Access Control Layers for Combined Fixed and Mobile Operation in Licensed Bands and Corrigendum 1 2006 pp 0_1 822 19 3GPP TS 25.211 Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto physical channels FDD 20 Data sheet from Lyrtech Inc http available at htp c hwwkneopusff _.l/p.s/lrtehs _sr d21]D ateforomTdf 21 Data sheet from Texas Instruments http available at 22 Data sheet from Xilinx http available at httll/www.xilinx.com 23 L Hanzo W Webb and T Keller Singleand Multicarrier Quadrature Amplitude Modulation  Wiley New York 2000 titled Wireless and Satellite Communications  The research interests of Dr Sacchi are mainly focused on wideband mobile and satellite transmission systems based on space time andfrequency diversity multi-user receivers based on non conventional techniques neural networks genetic algorithms higher-order statistics-based receivers etc cross-layer PHY-MAC design and high-frequency broadband satellite communications He is currently local coordinator for University of Trento of research projects dealing with reconfigurable communication platforms based on MIMO techniques and space-time signal processing ICONA project funded by MIUR and with exploitation of W-band for broadband satellite communications WA VE programs funded by ASI Claudio Sacchi is author and co-author of more than 50 papers published in international journals and conferences and reviewer for international journals and magazines IEEE Transactions on Communications IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications IEEE Communications Letters IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems Electronics Letters Wireless Networks IEEE Communications Magazine etc Dr Sacchi is member of the Organizing Committees and Technical Program Committees of international conferences like ICIP ICC GLOBECOM ACM-MOBIMEDIA etc Claudio Sacchi is member of IEEE M'01 SM'07 BIOGRAPHIES Olga Zlydareva is a PhD student of the University of Trento Italy She obtained her Master degree in Design Electronics Systems with specialization in High Radio Frequency Devices from MATI Moscow State Aviation Technological University named after KE Tsiolkovsky Moscow Russia Her research interests have oriented on the Software Defined Radio Technology Wireless Technologies Cellular Technologies Tunable devices Multi-standard systems Multi-protocol systems Physical layer of mobile devices Reconfigurability and Reprogramming of mobile devices The recent research focuses on the development of the baseband level of multistandard mobile devices based on SDR technology Claudio Sacchi was born in Genoa Italy in 1965 He obtained the Laurea degree in Electronic Engineering and the Ph.D in Space Science and Engineering at the University of Genoa Italy Since August 2002 Dr Sacchi has been holding aposition as assistant professor at the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Trento Italy In 2004 he was appointed by the Department of Information and Communication Technology of the University of Trento as leader of the Research Program 13 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


