Approach of Image Denoising Based on Discrete Multi-wavelet Transform  Tongzhou Zhao, Yanli Wang, Ying Ren, Yalan Liao School of Computer Scien ce & Engineering, Wuhan In stitute of Technology Wuhan, 430073, China zhao_tongzhou@126.com    Abstract\227  A new approach by using discrete multi-wavelet transform to remote sensing image denoising is presented. The wavelet theories have given rise to the wavelet thresholding method, for extracting a signal from noisy data. Multi-wavelets can offer simultaneous orthogonality, symmetry and short support, and these properties make multi-wavelets more suitable 
for various image processing applications, especially denoising Denoising of images via thresholding of the multiwavelet coefficients result from pre-processing and the multi-wavelet transform can be carried out by treating the output in this paper Multiwavelet transform technique has a big advantage over the other techniques that it less distorts spectral characteristics of the image denoising. The form of the threshold is carefully formulated and is the key to the excellent results obtained in the extensive numerical simulations of image denoising. The experimental results show that multi-wavelet on image denoising schemes outperform wavelet-based method both in subjectively 
and objectively Keywords- multi-wavelet transform; image denoising; remote sensing image; threshold I.     INTRODUCTION Wavelets as a cascade of multi-rate filter banks provide a multi-resolution decomposition. Discrete-time FIR filters lead to continuous-time basis functions. Such wavelet decompositions are especially effective for transform-based image denoising because of their correspondence with models of human visual perception. The method of signal denoising via wavelet thresholding was popularized by Donoho and Johoston d i s n o w  w i del y appl i e d i n s c i e n ce a n d engineering. It is based on thresholding of wavelet coefficients 
arising from the standard scalar orthogonal discrete wavelet transform \(DWT\avelets are a useful tool for image processing applications such as image compression and denoising. Image denoising systems work best with symmetric filters, which eliminate artificiality due to image boundaries However, nontrivial symmetric two band orthogonal wavelets do not exist Until recently, multi-wavelets, which are extension from scalar wavelets, have received co nsiderable attention from the wavelets research communities both in theory as well as in applications such as signal compression and denoising [2   Recently this approach has b een extended to incorporate 
thresholding coefficients arising from the discrete multiwavelet transform \(DMWT\lti-wavelets have several advantages in comparison with scalar wavelets on image processing, such features as short support, orthogonality symmetry, and vanishing moments, which are known to be important in image processing. A scalar wavelet cannot possess all these properties at the same time. On the other hand, a multi-wavelet system can simultaneously provide perfect reconstruction while preserving length \(orthogonality good performance at the boundaries \(via linear-phase symmetry\d a high order of approximation \(vanishing moments\hus multi-wavelets offer the possibility of 
superior performance for image processing applications compared with the scalar wavelets, and the experiments show that multi-wavelets have the potential to outperform scalar ones  In this paper we research wavelet thresholding in the context of scalar orthogonal and multiple orthogonal wavelet transforms. In section 2, the multiwavelet transform especially CL multi-wavelet, is introduced. A new image denoising algorithm based on multi-wavelet is proposed in section 3 of this paper. In section 4, a group of experiments are presented, and the results of the experiment are discussed based on subjective and objective criteria. Finally, this section 
summarizes the paper, and we get the conclusions  II.     DISCRETE MULTIWAVELET TRANSFORM Multiwavelets have attracted much attention due to their nice properties. They are very similar to wavelets but have some important differences. Wavelets have an associated scaling function  t  
002 and wavelet function  t  003 but multiwavelets have two or more scaling and wavelet functions For notational convenience, the set of scaling function can be written using the vector notion 
T r 2 1   t    t   t    t  1 
002 002 002   004 where  t  
978-1-4244-3894-5/09/$25.00 \2512009 IEEE 
004 is called This work was supported by the Project on Science Research Program of the Hubei Provincial Department of Education in China \(D20081507 


212  212  1 m 0 k  k t 2   t  327 Haar filter matrix, which has the advantages of simplicity, orthogonality, short support and symmetry Naturally, after we reconstruct an image by multiwavelet coefficients, a post-processing has been down by postfilters The post-processing is an inverse processing of initialization by means of post-filtering techniques As in the scalar wavelet case, the theory of multiwavelet is based on the idea of multiresolution analysis \(MRA\ring a single level of decomposition using a scalar wavelet transform the 2-D image data is replaced with four blocks corresponding to the subbands representing either lowpass or highpass filtering in both dimensions. The 2-D reconstruction of an image is obtained by simply performing all the steps described above for decomposition in the reverse order. The final step is post-processing. It is an inverse processing of initialization by means of post-filtering techniques. After the post-processing, a vector image can be reverted a scalar image III.   IMAGE DENOISING ALGORITHM Generally speaking, image denoise processing can be summarized as follows. Let X is the clean image and Y is the image which adds with white noise W namely Y=X  W The noise W has mean zero and variance 2 212  2 7 1 0 0 1 H  003 003 003   005 k H   2 The pair 002 and \(b\caling function2   2 t 002 and also has two wavelet functions, \(c\avelet function1   1 t 003 and \(d\ wavelet function2   2 t 003  The application of multiwavelets requires that the input signal to be first vectorized, namely preprocessing \(which is a crucial point known as multiwavelet initialization or prefiltering\n multiwavelet. Prefilters generate multiple vector\put streams from a given scalar source stream, and form the initial expansion coefficients of a given multiwavelet system. We have chosen the prefiltering strategy based on the 2 2 006 The algorithm to denoise with multiwavelet is following Transform the image Y into a multiwavelet domain by CL discrete multiwavelet transform. Then, manipulate the 212  212  1 m 0 k  k t 2   t    004 004 004 004 002 002 3 005 where r 1 is an integer. When r 1  t   005 is called a scalar wavelet, or simply wavelet [4 h e m u lti w a v e l e t t w o sca l e eq u a tio n s rese m b le those for scalar wavelets 004 004 k G 1 004 the multiscaling function. Likewise, the multiwavelet function is defined from the set of wavelet functions as T r 2 1   t    t   t    t  2 327 matrices for each integer k and m is the number of scaling coefficients   T h e m a trix ele m ents in t h es e f ilt ers  provide more degrees of freedom than a scalar wavelet Another very important multiwavelet system was Chui-Lian CL\tructed by Chui and Lian. It has been constructed by imposing conditions on the two-scale coefficients concerning symmetry, orthonormality and a fixed order of approximation The dilation and translation equations for this system are as follows  2 t 2  G  1 t 2  G  t 2  G  t  2 1 0 2 1 003 003  4   k k H G  is called a multiwavelet filter bank \(this is often abbreviated multifilter bank k G is called a matrix lowpass filter and k H is called a matrix highpass filter. They are r r 212  212    212 212 4 7 4 7 2 1 2 1 0 G   2 1 1 0 0 1 G   212 212 4 7 4 7 2 1 2 1 2 G    2 t 2  H  1 t 2  H  t 2  H  t  2 1 0 2 1 212  212    005 005 005 005  212 212 4 1 4 1 2 1 2 1 0 H   4 1 4 1 2 1 2 1 2 H  The CL multiwavelet has 3 scaling coefficients and 3 wavelet coefficients. It has 2 scaling functions and 2 wavelet functions r 2\ure 1 shows the CL multiwavelet The CL multiwavelet has the highest possible approximation order \(=2\ for its filter length, and it belongs to a class of multifilters which scaling and wavelet functions are symmetric/antisymmetric pairs. Translates of the scaling functions and wavelets are orthogonal. Both scaling functions are short support, supported on T h ei r rem a r k a b l e  properties show that multiwavelet has more useful features than scalar wavelets   a\                                                       \(b   c\                                                       \(d  Figure 1  This CL multiwavelet has two scaling functions, \(a\caling function1   1 t 


327 212   6 The original image is X its size is N M 007 265 007 007 007 265 212   5\en  i 0  i i 2 i i  N   N 2 N    T min arg 327 The noised image is Y and Y  is the denoised image. Its RMSE=12.5 In the experiments, the result of denoised image is shown in Figure 4\(b\ed on Daubechies D 3 wavelet. Its RMSE=20.7  Compared Figure 4\(a\with Figure 4\(b\we find that Figure 4\(a\ more clear than Figure 4\(b\eans that the multiwavelet based used in image denosing obtain better effects than the scalar one    a\                                                      \(b Figure 3\(a\ is a original clear IR image; Figure 3\(b\ is an IR image appended Gaussian white noise   a\                                                   \(b Figure 4\(a\ is a denoised image based on CL multiwavelet; Figure 4\(b\ is a denoised image based on Daubechies D 3 scalar wavelet V.    CONCLUSIONS Multiwavelet transform technique is rather a new method and it has a big advantage over the other techniques that it less distorts spectral characteristics of the image denoising. The experimental results show that multiwavelet based image 007 007 007 007 007 006 265 265 212   here multiwavelet coefficients. There are two criterions to distinguish noise from regular coefficients. The one is the Mallat\222s alternate projection method based on modulus maximum prin n oth e r is th e s i m p le s h ri nk ag e of wavelet coefficients proposed by Donoho and Johnstone. They had proposed a solution via wavelet shrinkage or soft thresholding in the wavelet domain o n o h o a n d Johnstone\222s algorithm offers the advantages of smoothness and adaptation. Wavelet shrinkage is smooth in the sense that the denoised estimate X 210 has a very high probability of being as smooth as the original image X in a variety of smoothness spaces rt h e r m ore w a velet s h rink a g e h a s t h e adv a n t ag e  of not adding \221bumps\222 or false oscillations in the process of removing noise, because of the local and smoothnesspreserving nature of the wavelet transform. Mallat\222s method is more practical because it is complicated for image and converges slowly and sometimes may be unstable. So we select the shrinkage method In the paper, we implemented Donoho\222s wavelet shrinkage algorithm using several additio nal rema To g e t t h e better results we modify coefficient to act on every component and level. Let 3 007 i S represents the multiwavelet coefficient of resolution level 2 i and for component 007 as vertical 007 V, as horizontal 007 H, as diagonal 007 D\fter applying a threshold 007 265 i we get the modified multiwavelet coefficients 007 265  i S finally, perform inverse discrete multiwavelet transform to get reconstruction image. The 007 265 i is obtain by minimizing this function following. Let  2  i i i i  S S  N 1   T 007 i N is total number of multiwavelet coefficients for component 007 and level 2 i and 007 0  i N is the number of the coefficients that be replaced by zero for 007 and 2 i  IV.    EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS We now apply the multiwavelet-based to infrared image IR\oising. In order to compare the results with the scalar wavelet in image denoising, we choose Daubechies D 3 wavelet to denoise image, for it is orthogonal and the approximation order is 2, too   a\                                                       \(b Figure 2   Daubechies D 3 scalar wavelet is with \(a\ one scaling function 002 and b\e wavelet function 003  Moreover, it has three coefficients in the dilation equation exactly like the CL multiwavelet. This Daubechies D 3 wavelet is shown in Figure 2 Figure 3\(a\ an original clear IR image. Figure 3\(b\ an IR image appended Gaussian white noise, and SNR \(signal-tonoise\ the figure is 4 dB The results of the denoised images are shown in Figure 4\(a by using the method we present above. We calculate its root mean square error \(RMSE\The RMSE is defined     N M  n  m  X  n  m  Y   RMSE M 1 m N 1 n 2 


denoising schemes outperform wavelet based method both subjectively and objectively ACKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported by the Project on Science Research Program of the Hubei Provincial Department of Education in China D20081507 We are grateful to those who provide the pictures, and all those who made suggestions that improved this paper REFERENCES  1  H. H. Wang, J. Wang, W. Wang, \223Multispectral image fusion approach based on GHM multiwavelet transform\224 Proceedings of 2005 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics  Vol.8  pp: 5043~5049, 2005 2  G. Lin and Z.M. Liu, \223The application of multiwavelet transform to image coding\224 IEEE Transactions on Image Processing  Vol.9\(2 pp 270-273, 2000 3  H. H. Wang, J. Zhang, J. Wang, \223A novel method based on discrete multiple wavelet transform to multispectral image fusion\224 Proceedings of SPIE  Vol.6044 pp: 60440T-1~ 60440T-8, 2005 4  M. B. Martin and A. E. Bell, \223New image compression techniques using multiwavelet and multiwavelet packets\224 IEEE Transactions on Image Processing  Vol.10\(4 pp: 500-510, 2001 5  J. Y. Tham, L. Shen, S. L. Lee and H. H. Tan, \223A general approach for analysis and application of discrete multiwavelet transforms\224 Transactions on Signal Processing  Vol.48\(2 pp: 457-464, 2000 6  H. H. Wang, \223A new multiwavelet-based approach to image fusion\224 Journal of Mathmatical Imaging and Vision Vol.21 pp:177-192, 2004 7  S. Mallat, and S. Zhong, \223Characterization of signals from multiscale edges\224 IEEE Transactions on PAMI  Vol.14\(7 pp: 1200-1224, 1995 4 


    5  One of the current products that AMSAA can quickly output in the field from the data collected is our Vehicle Usage Summary Report.  It is a two-page report that summarizes some of the important parameters of vehicle usage  Included in the report is the vehicle\222s ID, the date and time the data were taken, the total amount of fuel that was consumed, the amount of fuel consumed while the vehicle was at idle, the percentage of time the vehicle was at idle significant damage/safety events \(the count of hard brake and hard turn maneuvers\ the amount of time spent in primary, secondary, and off-road terrain, and a map of the vehicle\222s route. Also distribution profiles of speed, engine coolant temperature, engine and transmission oil temperatures, engine speed, and transmission gearing are shown. Figure 6 shown below is an example of a Vehicle Usage Summary Report    Figure 6 - Vehicle Usage Summary report   4  S EEDED F AULT T ESTING   A LGORITHM D EVELOPMENT  AMSAA\222s seeded fault testi ng was created in order to develop prognostic algorithms for CBM\222s EDHUMS box as well as the VMU FHUMS. During this test AMSAA introduced known controlled faults into the vehicle in order to replicate common field failure s. Common faults included lowering coolant levels, restricting air flow across radiator lowering of transmission oil levels and lowering of engine oil levels. It is predicted that this will cause the vehicle cooling system to fail or overheat which is a major cause of in theater failures. Testing was conducted at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland and then at Yuma Proving Ground, Arizona. Th ree courses from each Proving Ground were selected to encompass a full range of terrain types and conditions. The extremely high temperatures during the June/July desert testing at Yuma mimic closely that of Iraq It is also predicted that the outside air temperature has a large effect on the cooling system and performance of vehicles which is why Yuma Proving Ground was selected in the test plan  This test will provide many usef ul findings. First, the results will be used in order to advance the development of CBM and predictive vehicle algorithms coordinated with diagnostics and prognostics methods. Second, there has not been, to AMSAA\222s knowledge, any experiment detailing the vehicle\222s performance under extreme and unconventional conditions. These conditions include running the vehicle over rough terrain in excessive heat while the vehicle overheats or is pushed close to failure. Third, it shows indisputable evidence of whet her or not our EDHUMS is capable of showing faults in the data as well as having the potential to deliver the required algorithms  The vehicle was instrumented with J1939 data bus recording capability and GPS to replicate the instrumentation AMSAA uses in the field. Twelve thermocouples were also instrumented on the vehicle in specific locations as a validation of the temperatures being recorded from the J1708 data bus  For each of the three fluid level reduction tests, fluid was removed in increments relative to the total fluid capacity in order to produce a large enou gh sample size as well as a linear comparison curve in the data. Each level of fluid in the vehicle represented one run around the course and the test was done until the vehicle recorded failure of any kind including overheating. During the radiator blockage test the same ideas were put into place and runs were conducted as a percentage blocked of the total area. The data was then recorded and analyzed  Preliminary results show that AMSAA\222s EDHUMS data can in fact show differences be tween runs of failure and non failure for the faults tested. Engine coolant reduction and radiator blockage showed elevated coolant temperatures as expected as well as elevated oil temperatures and intake air temperatures. The difference in data also shows that there is a distinguishing factor between overheating by coolant loss and by radiator blockage seen in the figures below 


    6  Figure 7 - Coolant temperature and rate of change for vehicle overheating caused by radiator blockage     Figure 8 \226 Coolant temperature and rate of change for vehicle overheating caused by coolant loss  Figure 8 shows a coolant loss failure and the figure 7 shows overheating by radiator blockage. The blue lines represent the temperature of the actual coolant and the red line shows the rate of change of the coolant temperature. This was calculated by differentiating the coolant temperature, it is not a data stream that comes directly off the vehicles J1939 electronic control module. From the data both graphs show a rise in coolant temperatur e to a critical level; however their nature is much different The coolant loss chart shows a maximum rate of change to be +3 degrees and -2 degrees However the radiator blockage chart shows only a maximum rate of change as +/- 1 degree. AMSAA currently developed an algorithm that can distinguish between these two faults and will soon be in the process of testing and validating this algorithm. AMSAA also is in the final stages of developing an oil loss algorithm. These algorithms have the potential to predict vehicle failure and warn the operator of impending failures possibly 10 to 15 minutes before they occur, allowing the operator sufficient time to get to safety  Future work in seed ed fault testing is necessary and will be conducted by AMSAA. This involves testing many different faults under in-theater conditions as well as verifying any algorithms created. It is AMSAA\222s overall goal to use seeded fault testing in conjunction with CBM to have the ability to use algorithms developed by seeded fault implanted in-theater and save cost, time and increase the efficiency of vehicle maintenance and safety 5  C ONCLUSION  AMSAA has developed and is implementing a condition based maintenance system for military ground vehicles in order to plan maintenance based upon the actual condition of the system as enabled by the application of usage diagnostic and prognostic pr ocesses executed on a Health and Usage Monitoring System \(HUMS\ata acquisition system was ruggedized and modified to meet military standards and usage requirements in order to fill the need of a high operation tempo and extreme environments the vehicles endure. Testing was done to validate and verify algorithms developed and created by seeded fault testing along with in theater usage da ta. It is AMSAA hope that a focused HUMS will be used on all military vehicles in the future in order to provide operators, maintainers, suppliers and commanders with necessary data to make good fleet management decisions ultimately saving time and money while increasing maintenance e fficiency and operator safety R EFERENCES   Aerospace Conference W e b si te http www.aeroconf.org B IOGRAPHY  Eric Rabeno is a Mechanical Engineer and a member of the Condition Based Maintenance Team at The US Army Materiel Systems Analysis Activity located on Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engi neering with a Minor in Mathematics from the University of Delaware. He is also in the process of obtaining a Master of Science degree in Biomedical Engineering from Johns Hopkins University  Mark S. Bounds is a mechanical engineer and the Technical Lead on the Condition Based Maintenance Team at The US Army Materiel Systems Analysis Activity located on Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. He holds a B.S degree in Mechanical Engineering from Temple University and a Master of Science degree in Systems Architecture and Engineering from the University of Southern California A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to extend their acknowledgement and thanks to Craig Hershey, Michael Pohland, Marguerite Shepler and Mary Calomeris 


  7 B IOGRAPHY  David Oberhettinger works for the Chief Engineer of the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL This includes managing the JPL Engineering Standards Office and the JPL Engineering Research Program. Formerly, he managed Northrop Grumman Corp.\222s Spacecraft Engineering Technology Department. Technical work for Northrop Grumman in support of JPL included serving as Risk Manager for the Jovian Icy Moons Orbiter \(JIMO mission study contract and chairing a JPL Failure Review Board. He presently serves as a Vice-Chair of the 2009 Reliability & Maintainability Symposium http://www.rams  org  Helenann Kwong-Fu works for the Office of Safety and Mission Success at the NASA/Caltech Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\. This includes managing JPL flight missions as a Mission Assurance Manager and performing risk management on the following flight projects: SPITZER Telescopes Phoenix-MARS Lander, WISE, and Active Mirror Telescope Formerly, she was a senior scientist at JPL working on R&D in Biomedical Technology on Ultrasound Image Analysis of atherosclerosis disease. She is a recipient of the 2008 exceptional exa mple of the successful transfer of space technology to Earth applications and was honored with induction into the 2008 Space Technology Hall of Fame 


 8  Figure 17. A satellite view of the August 21 field test area. The GPS track of the OASIS boat is shown in red while the aerostat observatio n path \(obtained from the onboard avionics\wn in white  Figure 18. A slanted view of the ocean area where the test was conducted. Th e measured rhodamine concentrations are shown as a vertical “ribbon” along the route taken by the OASIS boat \(as shown in Figs. 16 and 17 8  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This paper describes a telesupervision architecture for multiple autonomous platforms and its application to the particular problem of the detection of harmful algal blooms Initial work has concentrated on the integration of subsystems developed by the collaborating organizations, in the development of HAB and dye observation systems, and in building an aerial platform to allow observation of the TAOSF system and the OASIS bo ats from the air. In-water tests have demonstrated the viability of the MARTA architecture as instan tiated in TAOSF One of our key next steps is an extended end-to-end test in which multiple OASIS platforms map a rhodamine-dye HAB surrogate under human telesupervision. Over the next year we plan to increase the number of platforms, develop and deploy adaptive sensing algorithms, and continue deploying the TAOSF system in the Chesapeake Bay estuary Because of their in-situ observation capabilities and resolution, as well as their adaptivity, telesupervised autonomous surface vehicles are crucial to the sensor web for Earth science. The MARTA telesupervision architecture underlying TAOSF is broadly applicable to a wide variety of domains beyond HABs, incl uding ecological forecasting water management, carbon management, disaster management, coastal management, homeland security, and planetary exploration A CKNOWLEDGMENTS  This work was supported by NASA award NNX06AF27G Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”, granted under the Advanced Information Systems Technology program of NASA’s Earth Systems Technology Office ESTO\he TAOSF project is a collaboration among Carnegie Mellon University CMU Flight Center \(GSFC\, NASA Goddard’s Wallops Flight Facility \(WFF\mergent Space Technologies, Inc. \(EST and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\ifornia Institute of Technology. Work on the OASIS platforms is conducted by Emergent Space Technologies, Inc., EG&G, and Zinger Enterprises under award NA03NOS4730220 from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA\, U.S. Department of Commerce R EFERENCES    G Po d n ar J. M  D o lan   A. El fes M  B e rge r m a n, H  B Brown, and A. D. Guisewite. "Human Telesupervision of a Fleet of Autonomous Robots for Safe and Efficient Space Exploration". Proceedings of the 1st Annual Conference on Human-Robot Interaction \(HRI-2006\e City, UT USA, March 2-4, 2006   E Halbe r stam L. Na v a rr oSerm ent, R. Cone scu   S Mau, G. Podnar, A. D. Guisewite, H. B. Brown, A. Elfes, J M. Dolan, and M. Bergerman. "A Robot Supervision Architecture for Safe and E fficient Space Exploration and Operation." Proceedings of the 10th Biennial International Conference on Engineering, Construction, and Operations in Challenging Environments, Houston, TX, USA, March 5-8 2006    A. El fes J. M   Dola n G Po d n ar S M a u, a n d M   Bergerman. "Safe and Effici ent Robotic Space Exploration with Tele-Supervised Autonomous Robots." Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium 2006, Stanford, CA, USA March 27-29, 2006   G Po d n ar J. D o lan  A  Elfes, a nd M  Berge r m a n  Human Telesupervision of Very Heterogeneous Planetary Robot Teams”. In Proceedi ngs of the AIAA Space 2007 Conference, Long Beach, CA, 18 – 20 September 2007 


 9  5 Wood s Ho le Ocean ographic In stitu tion    http://www.whoi.edu  6 and  Wild life Research  In stitu te http://research.myfwc.com    No rth w est Fishe r ies Sci e nce Ce nter Harm ful Al ga l Blooms Program http://www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/hab/index.html  8 ing Harm fu l Alg a l Blo o m s in th e Ch esap eak e Bay   http://coastwatch.noaa.gov/cbay_hab  9 a l Transform a tio n fo r Sp atio tem p o r al  Data Mining", Journal of Knowledge and Information Systems \(KAIS\ol. 11, No. 5, 2007, Springer  1 J. M   D o l a n G Po d n ar  S. St a n cl i ff E  Li n J H o sl er T. Ames, J. Moisan, T. Moisan, J. Higinbotham, and A Elfes. “Harmful Algal Bloo m Characterization via the Telesupervised Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. Proceedings of the 2007 NASA Science and Technology Conference NSTC-07\ College Park, MD, June 19 – 21 2007  1 Tec hni cal  Dat a S h eet   http://www.coleparmer.com/ca talog/Msds/msdbes002.pdf  1 A. El fes J. Dol a n an d G. P o d n ar T he Tel e su per v i s ed Adaptive Ocean Sensor Fleet”. In Proceedings of the Conference on Atmospheric and Environmental Remote Sensing Data Processing and Utilization III: Readiness for GEOSS, 2007 SPIE Symposium on Optical Engineering and Applications. San Diego, CA, 26 – 30 August 2007  1 A El fes  Usi n g  Occ u pancy  Gri d s f o r M obi l e R o bot Perception and Navigation”. IEEE Computer Magazine Special Issue on Autonomous Intelligent Machines, v. 22, n 6, June 1989  1 A. El fes Dy nam i c C ont rol o f R o b o t P e rcept i o n Usi n g Stochastic Spatial Models. In G. Schmidt \(ed.\ation Processing in Mobile Robots, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, July 1991  15 A. Elfes Mu lti-Sou r ce Sp atial Fu si o n Using Bayesi an Reasoning. In M. A. Abidi and R. C. Gonzalez \(eds.\, Data Fusion in Robotics and Machine Intelligence, Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1992  1 A  El fes  R ob ot  Navi gat i on  I n t e gr a t i ng Pe rce p t i o n Environment Constraints and Task Execution Within a Probabilistic Framework”. In Reasoning with Uncertainty in Robotics, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 1996  1 B r uch  M  H  T he m u l t i rob o t  o p era t or c o nt r o l u n i t  MOCU\," SPIE Proc. 6230: Unmanned Systems Technology VIII, Defense Security Symposium, Orlando FL, April 18-20, 2006   B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Alberto Elfes is a Principal Member of Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Systems Section at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\He leads projects in the areas of autonomous aerial vehicles for planetary exploration coordination and control of robot/robot and robot/human teams and space mission planning and architecture optimization. He has held positions as Director of the Automation Institute, Brazil, and as a research scientist at th e IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, the Engineering Design Research Center and the Robotics Institute, CMU. Additionally, he has held university professorships in Brazil and Germany. He has an E.Eng. degree in Electronics Engineering and an M.Sc degree in Computer Science from the Aeronautics Institute of Technology \(ITA\razil, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineer ing, with concentration in Robotics, from Carnegie-Mellon University. Dr. Elfes has over 100 publications in international journals, conferences and books, and has lectured ex tensively in North America Europe, Brazil and Japan. He is a recipient of the Mercator Professorship Award of the German Research Foundation DFG   


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


