Block-based Concurrent and Storageaware Data Streaming for Grid Applications with Lots of Small Files   Wen Zhang 1 Junwei Cao 2,3 Yisheng Zhong 1,3 Lianchen Liu 1,3 and Cheng Wu 1,3  1 Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 2 Research Institute of Information Tec hnology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 3 Tsinghua National Laboratory for Informati on Science and Technology, Beijing 100084, China Corresponding email: jcao@tsinghua.edu.cn  Abstract Data streaming management and scheduling is required by many grid computing applications 
especially when the volume of data to be processed is extremely high while available storage is relatively limited. Big bulk of data from scientific experiments is usually partitioned into lots of small files LOSF bringing challenges to data streaming supports. Blockbased data transferring is proposed in this work and implemented using GridFTP, where the number of blocks or the size of each block must be carefully scheduled, taking makespan and available storage into account simultaneously. To increase processing efficiency, data streaming and processing have to be 
performed concurrently; data streaming scheduling must be storage-aware to avoid data overflow Experimental results show that the optimization method for block-based concurrent and storage-aware data streaming proposed in this work is efficient to deal with the LOSF problem with a relatively good performance in terms of makespan and storage usage 1. Introduction Data management is one of the most challenging issues in the Grid implementation. While most existing research on data grids prefer to a bring-program-todata approach, some applications such as astronomical 
observations, large-scale simulation and sensor networks require bring-data-to-program supports especially when there is a shortage of CPU processing capability located at data sources. In those cases, data streaming supports are required in order to utilize remote CPU resources  For example, LIGO \(Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory\ [1   is g e n e ratin g  1TB scientific data for gravitational wave detection per day but LIGO observatories are lack of enough processing capacity on sites. LIGO is trying to benefit 
from CPU cycles provided by the Open Science Grid OSG i n ce m o s t OS G s ites are C P Uric h an d storage-constrained with no LIGO data available, data streaming supports are required in order to utilize OSG CPU resources In a data streaming scenario, data are transferred and processed continuously as if data were always available from local storage. Meanwhile, processed data have to be cleaned up for subsequently coming data A data streaming environment is implemented with Con o r j ob alloc a tion an d G l obu s 5] f o r data transfers using GridFTP as des c ri bed i n ou r  previous work 
Known as the “lots of small files” \(LOSF\ problem a large number of small files bring new challenges to data streaming, since GridFTP is excellent to transfer large volumes of data, but suffers dramatically if the dataset is composed with many small files. For example, LIGO data are stored in time series binary files, each including 16-256 seconds of data from multiple channels A block-based data transferring method is proposed in this work to address the LOSF issue and improve data streaming performance, with considerations of three typical scenarios: faster processing, faster 
streaming and workflow manners. An example from LIGO burst data analysis is utilized to verify our scheduling algorithms. Experimental results show that block-based concurrent data streaming can achieve good performance in both makespan and storage usage with well-scheduled number of data blocks; concurrent data streaming provides better performance than sequential ones in terms of makespan with the same number of blocks; storage-aware data streaming can relax the storage requirement dramatically without 
decreasing processing efficiency Some existing researches on data streaming management are derived from database management systems, e.g. STREAM rora [9], Niag araC Q  an d G i g a s c ope [11  Mos t of dat a s t rea m i n g research in context of grid computing    application specific or just focus on computational resources. The following software implementation is most relevant to the work described in this paper 
9th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster Computing and the Grid 978-0-7695-3622-4/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CCGRID.2009.26 538 


 Chir h i r p i s a di s t ri bu t e d f i l e  sy s t e m  for grid computing, providing protocols to efficiently access to many small files. It is focused on how to improve small file performance. Our major concern is to establish a data streaming environment where data streaming and processing are considered simultaneously  GridFTP Pipelining [16 Grid FTP P i p e lin in g  is developed to cope with the LOSF situation to hide the latency of each transfer request by sending requests while a data transfer is in progress. Also, it focuses on the data transfers without data processing consideration. Our method emphases on concurrent and storageaware data streaming and processing in an integrated environment The rest of this paper is organized as follows Section 2 provides an overall introduction to data streaming for grid applications; Section 3 analyzes three scenarios of data streaming, including their makespan and usage of storage in different scheduling algorithms; experimental results are included in Section 4 to verify our scheduling algorithms, and Section 5 concludes the paper 2. Grid Data Streaming In some data streaming scenarios, data should be pulled by end users rather than pushed to computational resources in the form of streams of tuples, and processing is continuous over these streams as if data were always available from local storage What’s more, data arrival rates must be controlled to match corresponding processing speeds to avoid waste of computational capacity or data overflow. Meanwhile processed data have to be cleaned up to save space for subsequently coming data  2.1. Concurrent Data Streaming To make full use of computational capacity, data streaming should be concurrent with the processing i.e., data should be streamed to local storage while the processing is going on. For data streaming applications data transfers and processing take place simultaneously to overlap themselves as much as possible to decrease idle time  2.2. Storage-aware Data Streaming It is not always the case that data should be transferred as fast as possible. For data streaming applications, data transfers should be storage-aware instead of spontaneous because available storage is relatively small compared with high volumes of data to be processed. This is to say, data transfers should be controlled to make required data available according to actual data processing speeds and usage of storage. If data arrive too fast and cannot be processed in time accumulated data may require large amount of storage space over time; on the other hand, if data transfer speed is lower than processing, corresponding jobs may become idle and computational power is not fully utilized In some cases where data processing takes longer than data streaming per tuple, data transferring should be intermittent rather than continuous to avoid data overflow. The so-called repertory policy is introduced where an upper limit and a lower limit are set to control data streaming: when the amount of data in storage is less than the lower limit, data streaming will be invoked until the amount arrives the upper limit and then data streaming will be stopped. Due to data streaming and cleanup, such procedure will repeat Both limits are set according to the size of blocks in which data are transferred as mentioned below and the available storage 2.3. Block-based Data Streaming The target data set in LIGO consists of lots of small files, and unfortunately, the data throughput of small file operations on both network and file systems is many orders of magnitude worse than the bulk transfer speeds available with large files, as known as the problem of LOSF  In our scenario, small files are transferred in the unit of blocks. One block can be a group of data files whose size can be adjusted as needed. Accordingly data are processed by blocks, and it is not necessarily that such blocks have the same size with those in data transfers. The size of each block, or put it in another way, the number of blocks the whole data set is divided into, is the scheduling variable to achieve high processing efficiency, taking the available storage into account simultaneously  3. Scheduling Algorithms A well-made scheduling scheme will help to achieve high throughput with small storage in an efficient way. The main variable of scheduling here is the number of blocks, denoted as n to minimize the required storage and makespan, denoted as T  GridFTP is applied to transfer data once in a block and every time the needed time to establish a connection, complete authentication, close the connection and so on is denoted as t a Suppose that it will cost a short period of time t c to invoke the processing, and furthermore, both t a and t c are assumed to be a constant value 
539 


Given the total amount of data to be processed and n size of each block is set; denote the time period to transfer and process one block as t t and t p respectively Obviously, different n correspond to different t t and t p  denoted as t t n and t p n For the sake of analysis suppose n*t t n and n*t p n are constants respectively i.e., no matter how many blocks the total data set is divided into, the pure time to transfer and process all of data are fixed, eliminating the sum of all t a and t c  Let A  be the total amount of data to be processed and S be available storage. Three scenarios are discussed in the following sections, former two are for concurrent data streaming while the latter one is for sequential data streaming and processing in a workflow manner 3.1. The Concurrent Manner with Faster Data Processing Here, one block will be processed before the next one is arriving, so required storage is relatively small and no repertory policy is needed  The total makespan T 1 during which all the data are streamed and processed, can be calculated as follows  1 1            C n t t n t n t n n t t n n t t n t t n T p a c t p a p c t a                where C 1 is a constant and has nothing to do with n  c t t n t n C      1  It can be observed that larger n leads to more n*t a  but less t p n and vice versa. So there is an optimal n  leading to the least T 1 which is also demonstrated in experimental results in Section 4 As far as storage is concerned, it can be inferred that double block size is enough. So, larger n means smaller size of each block, or smaller required storage But as mentioned above, too large n leads to longer makespan. So there must be a tradeoff when setting the number of blocks, taking makespan and storage usage into account simultaneously  3.2. The Concurrent Manner with Faster Data Streaming In this circumstance, the processing of one block of data takes longer than corresponding data transfer During the long run, there will be backlogs of data which may result in data overflow if data transferring is not controlled according to available storage In this case, the time span to process all the blocks T2, can be calculated as follows   2 2            C n t t n n t n t n t t n n t t n n t t T t c p a t c p c t a                where a p t n t n C      2  and C 2 is another constant irrespective of n The larger n makes larger n  t c but less t t n so there may also be another optimal n which leads to the minimal T 2  In this case, data streaming must be storage-aware as mention in subsection 2.2. In general, the lower limit n L  can be set to the double of a block, which is enough for concurrent data streaming and processing and the upper limit n P is determined by the available storage. Higher values of lower and upper limits would not help decrease the total makespan, but may improve robustness of processing, especially when network failures occur and no more data can be streamed. In that case, data stored in local storage in advance can be processed. The processing survives at a cost of more local storage usage  3.3. The Workflow Manner In this case, data streaming and processing work in a sequential way, i.e., one data block is streamed to local storage and processed, after which another block is transferred and processed until all the blocks are processed The total time span T 3 can be calculated as follows      3 3             C t t n n t n t n t t n n t t n t t n T c a p t c a p c t a             where        3 n t n t n C p t    and C 3 is also a constant It can be observed that larger n leads to longer makespan since more authentications and system calls are involved. On the other hand the storage requirement is less as n  increases, since each block is smaller in size. There is also a tradeoff between makespan and usage of storage 4. Experimental Results To verify the scheduling issues described in Section 3, experiments are carried out using our grid data streaming environment with an application from LIGO gravitational wave data analysis 4.1. Experiment Design In the work described in this paper, the LIGO application is a data analysis program that reads in two 
540 


data streams from two LIGO observatories and calculates the correlation coefficients that can be used to characterize similarity of two curves. If two identified signals from two observatories \(one in the Washington State and the other in the Louisiana State occur simultaneously with similar curves, it would be very likely that a gravitational wave burst is detected Note that this is only a simplified case study since actual LIGO burst analysis pipeline is much more sophisticated because many pre- and post- signal processing steps are required LIGO data streams are composed with small data files, each containing observational data acquired in 16 seconds. The data files used in the experiment is the LIGO level 3 data with reduced sizes that only include data from the gravitational wave channel. Each data file is about mega bytes in size. In the experiment 1188 pairs of data files will be transferred and processed. A local grid is established where the nominal bandwidth among each computer is 10 Mbps and shared. Three computers are used, two as data processors and one as data storage. All of them are equipped with Intel Pentium IV processor, 1GB of memory and 160GB of disk. But the two data processors have different workload, which results in different data processing speeds and scenarios in Sections 3.1 and 3.2 are produced. Data transfer is implemented using GridFTP once a block  4.2. Makespans In both scenarios 3.1 and 3.2, makespans show similar characteristics varying with the number of blocks: when n is less than a certain number, makespan decreases dramatically with increasing n while the makespan increases slowly with increasing n  exceeding the certain number. The result justifies our allege in Sections 3.1 and 3.2, and we are confirmed that there must be an optimal n to achieve the minimum makespan, although we are not aware of the precise values of t a  t c  t t n and t p n and sometimes we need to find the optimal or at least satisfactory number of blocks or in other words, the size of each block, empirically. Figures 1 and 2 illustrate the makespans against different number of blocks in the scenario 3.1 and scenario 3.2 respectively From Figure 1, it can be observed that \(1\e makespan drops the most fiercely at the front part of the curve, i.e., when the number of blocks increases from 1 to 2, or 2 to 3 and so on because t p n decreases dramatically; \(2\in the medium part of the curve, the makespan just vary gently because the decrease of t p n and increase of n*t a offset each other, and the optimal numbers of blocks can be located here; \(3\in the tail of the curve, the makespan increases slowly as n increases because n*t a prevails. So the middle part of this curve represents optimized numbers of blocks in both terms of makespan and storage usage. In particular, the optimal number of blocks in this case is about 40, and in other words, each block includes 30 data files     Figure 1. Experimental Results of Scenario 3.1 Makespan against the Number of Blocks n   Figure 2. Experimental Results of Scenario 3.2 Makespan against the Number of Blocks n  In the scenario 3.3 makespans show different characteristics from those in 3.1 and 3.2. Makespans increase slowly with increasing number of blocks, due to the more overhead of authentications and system calls for processing programs, as shown in Figure 3 But on the other hand, with increasing number of blocks, the size of each block decreases, or more exactly, the required storage for processing decreases Just as the two sides of a coin, makespan and storage usage must be scheduled as a whole. It can be observed that makespans in scenarios of concurrent data streaming and processing are much less than those performed in a workflow manner, which verifies the advantage of the concurrent method  Figure 3. Experimental Results of Scenario 3.3 Makespan against the Number of Blocks n  4.3. Storage Usage In scenarios 3.1 and 3.3, required storage varies under the size of two data blocks and one data block respectively, so the more blocks the whole data set is divided into, the less storage is required. Figures 4 and 5 demonstrate the storage usage of scenarios 3.1 and 3.3, respectively, in terms of the number of data files in storage In this experiment, the number of blocks is about 20 and each block includes 55 data files. As shown in Figure 4, the total number of data files in local storage vibrates between 40 and 110 periodically. This is an overall effectiveness of concurrent data streaming processing and cleanups. Since the processing speed is 
541 


a bit faster than data streaming, total number of local data files cannot exceed two blocks \(110\ but can be less than one block \(55\he whole process keeps the local storage usage within a reasonable scope and scales well over time   Figure 4. Experimental Results of Scenario 3.1 Storage Usage over Time n 20  Figure 5. Experimental Results of Scenario 3.3 Storage Usage over Time n 20 As shown in Figure 5, the process survives with local storage usage of only one block \(55\ of data files under the workflow manner. In this scenario, data streaming, processing and cleanups are performed sequentially. While less storage is required, the period is much longer \(almost doubled\han that of scenario 3.1. It is obvious that the whole data throughput decreases and system resources are not fully utilized As we can notice, the number of data files in storage is not continuous There are some cliffes in the curves, which is due to the fact that we process and delete data files in the unit of blocks, not one file by another. And it also holds true in scenario 3.2, where the required storage increases persistently due to the backlogs of data and data overflow may occur, so some policy must be adopted to avoid it. Repertory policy is taken and its effect on storage usage and makespan is discussed in the next section 4.4. Repertory Policies Experimental results of scenario 3.2 are illustrated in Figure 6 that compares storage usage over time with or without repertory policies. It can be observed that, if no policy is applied, data files are streamed continuously all the way to local storage. Since data processing is slower than data streaming, data files are accumulated in local storage up to 1000 files and consequently the data will be processed in blocks one by one. The processing takes longer, so there is a large amount of backlogs of data, which leads to high volume of storage usage The performance is improved if repertory policy is adopted, where the upper and lower limits are set to 5 and 1 blocks, respectively. In this scenario, data streaming is intermittent rather than continuous, which helps confine the storage usage to a certain scope Also this guarantees that there are always data blocks in storage to keep data processing going on constantly. In this way large amount of data can be processed with just reasonable storage and high processing efficiency  Figure 6. Experimental Results of Scenario 3.2 Comparison of Storage Usage over Time with/without the Repertory Policy n 20 Not surprisingly, introduction of repertory policy dose not prolong the makespan, for as can be noticed the same numbers of processing periods are included in curves in Figure 6, and makespans of the two cases are almost the same. The makespan is not sensitive to the upper and lower limits of repertory policy as long as there are data files available in local storage. While higher limits do not result in higher processing performance, it can help to increase the robustness of data processing To achieve high processing performance with reasonable storage usage, it is important to divide the whole data set consisting of lots of small files into appropriate blocks and carry out concurrent data streaming, processing and cleanups. There is a tradeoff between makespan and storage usage, and experimental results show that medium sizes of blocks lead to a relatively better compromise. To be storageaware, the repertory policy must be introduced, when data streaming is faster than processing, to enable the processing of high volumes of data with relatively small available storage and to achieve similar makespan. It is also observed that the concurrent and storage aware data streaming for lots of small files in blocks prevails over the workflow manner by much in terms of data processing performance 5. Conclusions This work is focused on addressing the LOSF problem for grid data streaming applications. A block based method is applied together with consideration of concurrency and storage awareness. The number of blocks, or the size of each block, must be scheduled carefully to achieve high processing performance with reasonable storage usage. Compared with sequential data streaming, processing and cleanups usually performed in a workflow manner, the concurrent approach proposed in this work achieves higher performance in terms of data throughput, since data streaming and processing are overlapped as much as possible to get better utilization of grid resources Storage-aware data streaming, implemented with the introduction of repertory policy, is used to confine storage usage to a limited scope without delaying 
542 


processing, so that large amount of data can be processed with reasonable storage requirements  A simplified application from LIGO gravitational wave data analysis is used in our work to verify our approach, which actually motivates all the work described in this paper. Ongoing work include the application of our data streaming environment for gravitational wave data analysis during the sixth LIGO science run to be started in 2009, in close collaboration with the MIT/LIGO laboratory  We believe integrated and cooperative management of various grid resources is becoming essential for future grid development, since performance of grid applications are always associated with all aspects of these grid resources. A unified mechanism is critical for integrated management and scheduling of various grid resources Acknowledgement This work is supported by National Science Foundation of China \(grant No. 60803017\nistry of Science and Technology of China under the national 863 high-tech R&D program \(grants No 2006AA10Z237, No. 2007AA01Z179 and No 2008AA01Z118\nistry of Education of China under the program for New Century Excellent Talents in University and the Scientific Research Foundation for the Returned Overseas Chinese Scholars, and the FIT foundation of Tsinghua University Junwei Cao would like to express his gratitude to Professor Erik Katsavounidis of LIGO \(Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory Laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology for their long-term collaboration supports References 1  D. A. Brown, P. R. Brady, A. Dietz, J. Cao, B Johnson, and J. McNabb, “A Case Study on the Use of Workflow Technologies for Scientific Analysis Gravitational Wave Data Analysis”, in I. J. Taylor D. Gannon, E. Deelman, and M. S. Shields \(Eds Workflows for eScience: Scientific Workflows for Grids Springer Verlag, pp. 39-59, 2007 2  E. Deelman, C. Kesselman, G. Mehta, L. Meshkat L. Pearlman, et. al., “GriPhyN and LIGO, Building a Virtual Data Grid for Gravitational Wave Scientists in Proc. 11 th IEEE Int. Symp. on High Performance Distributed Computing pp. 225-234, 2002 3  R. Pordes for the Open Science Grid Consortium The Open Science Grid”, in Proc. Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics Conf Interlaken Switzerland, 2004 4  M. Litzkow, M. Livny, and Matt Mutka, “Condor A Hunter of Idle Workstations”, in Proc. of 8 th Int Conf. on Distributed Computing Systems pp. 104111, 1988 5  I. Foster and C. Kesselman, “Globus: A Metacomputing Infrastructure Toolkit Int. J Supercomputer Applications Vol. 11, No. 2, pp 115-128, 1997 6  B. Allcock, J. Bester, J. Bresnahan, A. L Chervenak, I. Foster, C. Kesselman, S. Meder, V Nefedova, D. Quesnal, and S. Tuecke, “Data Management and Transfer in High Performance Computational Grid Environments Parallel Computing Vol. 28, No. 5, pp. 749-771, 2002 7  W. Zhang, J. Cao, Y. Zhong, L. Liu, and C. Wu An Integrated Resource Management and Scheduling System for Grid Data Streaming Applications”, in Proc. 9 th  IEEE/ACM Int. Conf. on Grid Computing Tsukuba, Japan, 258-265, 2008 8  A. Arasu, B. Babcock, S. Babu, M. Datar, K. Ito, I Nishizawa, J. Rosenstein, and J. Widom STREAM: The Stanford Stream Data Manager IEEE Data Eng. Bull Vol. 26, No. 1, pp.19-26 2003 9  D. Carney, U. Cetinterne, M. Cherniack, et. al Monitoring Streams: A New Class of Data Management Applications”, in Proc. Int. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases pp. 215-225, 2002 10   J. Chen, D. DeWitt, F. Tian, and Y. Wang NiagaraCQ: A Scalable Continuous Query System for Internet Databases”, in Proc. ACM SIGMOD Int Conf. on Management of Data pp. 379-390, 2000 11   C. Cranoe, T. Johnson, V. Shkapenyuk, and O Spatscheck, “Gigascope: a Stream Database for Network Applications”, in Proc  ACM SIGMOD Int Conf. on Management of Data pp. 379-390, 2003 12   B. Agarwalla, N. Ahmed, D. Hilley, and U Ramachandran, “Streamline Scheduling Streaming Applications in a Wide Area Environment Multimedia Systems Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 69-85, 2007 13   V. Bhat, S. Klasky, S. Atchley, M. Beck, D McCune, and M. Parashar, “High Performance Threaded Data Streaming for Large Scale Simulations”, in Proc. 5 th IEEE/ACM Int. Workshop on Grid Computing pp. 243-250, 2004 14   G. Fox, H. Gadgil, S. Pallickara, M. Pierce, R. L Grossman, et. al., “High Performance Data Streaming in Service Architecture Technical Report, Indiana University and University of Illinois at Chicago July 2004 15   D. Thain and C. Moretti, “Efficient Access to Many Small Files in a Filesystem for Grid Computing”, in Proc. 8 th IEEE/ACM Int. Conf. on Grid Computing  pp. 243-250, 2007 16   J. Bresnahan, M. Link, R. Kettimuthu, D. Fraser and I. Foster, “GridFTP Pipelining”, in Proc. TeraGrid Conf 2007  
543 


a a 12 Hz transmitter and/or at a pedestrian speed The other case considers a fade envelope bandwidth of 93 Hz and corresponds to a mobile receiver located inside a car moving at a freeway speed The phase noise in the simulations is modeled as described in section 5 of the paper The simulations of the paper assume a carrier frequency of 900 MHz Band limited QPSK modulation with a square-root raised cosine filter with a filter roll-off factor of 0.25 is used in the simulations presented in the paper A WGN Channel For the case of AWGN channel oc\(k 1 and the channel constant AO is assumed known at the receiver Figure 4 plots the Kalman filter phase error which corresponds to the first component of x\(k/k 10 statistical framework The fading carrier phase mobile speed of the AWGN channels 12Hz Figure 7 for the respect to rad2 Figure 9a shows the fading amplitude tracking shows the BER performance e 6 1 c the first component receiver 7 Theo.retical QPSK Non-Adaptive Rx wlKalman Filter PLL bit energy to  x\(k i\(k/k for the case of an Eb/N0 of 1 0 dB The filter phase error variance from the figure is equal to 0JO0013 rad Figure 5 depicts the results for the bit error rate BER The figure also shows the theoretical BER result for the case of known carrier phase reference It may be observed from the figure that the degradation due to the phase noise is reduced to less than about 0.1I dB by the proposed receiver architecture 0-4 0-4 0-6 0-8 0-11 0 2 0-4 0-6 0 8 1 012 014 016 0-8 02 Time Figure 4 channel with local oscillator phase a relative motion with the receiver carrier frequency is shifted relative to exhibits The duration of the fade is dependent upon vehicle speed and carrier frequency and is described in the following flat frequency non-selective fading the Rayleigh fading envelope power 2OLog1j[abs\(a4k for the maximum Doppler of the proposed receiver for the noise Time sc Figure 6 Rayleigh fading envelope power maximum Doppler with the adaptive type I the Kalman filter phase noise tracking error which corresponds to for ratio of 25dB The filter phase from the figure is equal to 0.0015 of the proposed of noise As due to noise is reduced to insignificant value with the proposed a zero Kalman filter phase each other case of of AWGN L--------------------------------------Average 51 are in the phase receiver noise power spectral density i an amplitude fading a as computed variance case case error Rayleigh Flat Fading Channel a error noise tracking Whenever and the received signal channel model used in simulations is the Rayleigh channel Figure 6 displays shift corresponding to of 9 mi/hr Figure 5 BER performance shift filter of section 4 Figure 8 plots of x\(k/k  x\(k i\(k/k architecture and compares it with the ideal the degradation case the transmitted carrier frequency 


io-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------zf:---------------------------------------------------------------------10 L.Lj 7-------------------LE dB compared to the phase use Figure 7 Fading amplitude tracking  0-5 01I T for the mobile channel with 12 Hz maximum Doppler 9b rad2 even a higher of the Costas loop an Eb/N0 I Hz stadn Envt rp Figure t----------------------------------------------------lo does not which is the maximum 1-2 11  Doppler Figure 12 the degradation due to architecture with type I adaptive fading amplitude architecture with type I adaptive fading amplitude OPSK A.,daptive Rx wfKaIrnan Filt a 93 Hz a the Kalman filter may shw nexpanded viwof Figure 9a soigan improvement of about 0.4 with Kalman filter The result when the Costas loop the Rayleigh fading envelope power 2OLog1j[abs\(a\(k maximum Doppler shift corresponding to of 70 mi/hr Figure 11I shows the fading amplitude tracking with the adaptive type filter of section 4 variance at of 25 architecture for the mobile channel with about 93 Type I of noise As channels considered earlier noise is reduced to insignificant value for this well with the proposed receiver 0 0-02 0-04 0-06 0-08 0-1 0 A 2 0-14 0-16 0-18 0-2 Tlme Figure 8 Kalman filter PLL phase noise tracking of the proposed estimator for Rayleigh flat fading channel maximum Doppler shift 12 The,oetic PS ew Mleth  Klma FiterPL osas Lop walman FIte PL 0O4dB 28-2 234 286 23 29 29.2 Avrage SR per Btd\(4 29A 292938 30 Figure 9b BER performance of the proposed estimator for flat Rayleigh fading channel maximum Doppler shift 12 shows the BER performance of the proposed The filter phase carrier phase filter Hz dB is equal to 0.0015 and compares it with the ideal mobile speed of the other two case case as same as Hz expanded i----------------------------------------------------------------i o Figure 9a BER performance for the I error case show difference Figure 0 plots for the view 40 Tie sc 8 Raylegh 1 0 zero case error in Rayleigh fading amplitude and LO phase noise loo Theoretical 


Figure 10 Rayleigh Fading envelope power Max Doppler shift  93Hz 11 12 0-14 0-16 0-T8 I T is very close to the ideal even in the presence of REFERENCES 1 R Kumar and R Martinez  CDMA Satellite System Capacity with Multiple User Classes Proceedings of the AIAA 22nd International Communication Satellite Systems Conference April 2004 Monterey California 2 K Pahlavan and P Krishnamurthy Principles of Wireless Networks A Unified Approach Prentice Hall 2002 3 V K Garg Wireless Network Evolution 2G to 3G Prentice Hall NJ 2002 4 M K Simon and M Alouini Digital Communication Hz and corresponds to a freeway speed The simulation results show that in all carrier phase reference such that the penalty in terms of the bit Type II filter energy to noise power spectral density ratio Eb/No due to range 2PSof Eb/No error rate results when the proposed method is applied to the error rate the  0-26 0-28 performance case of QPSK modulation for the case of both the AWGN channel and the Rayleigh fading channels Two specific examples of the fading channel have been considered In case of known e Se Figure 11 Signal amplitude estimation  fading and channel phase noise impairments The amplitude and final phase estimates error remains small cases considered the phase of carrier recovery are then used to detect the data symools The paper has presented detailed results on both the tracking phase error is less than 0.1 dB for both the AWGN and Rayleigh fading channels and for as the carrier phase noise that is contributed from the receiver local oscillator LO and the fading channel The amplitude fading estimate is used by a mobile receiver moving at a pedestrian speed The other case considers a fade envelope bandwidth of 93 a mobile receiver located inside a car moving at a wide a Kalman filter which then provides the predicted phase to the reference carrier oscillator such that the carrier phase estimation that obtained for the ideal over Fading Channels John Wiley 2000 5 R Kumar Power Control Algorithm and Architecture for Fading Communication Channels 2006 IEEE Aero Conference Big Sky Montana March 2006 6 B Skalar Digital Communications Prentice-Hall 2001 7 R Kumar D Taggart and G Goo Performance of the MPSK and QAM Modulation Schemes in the Presence of Narrowband Interference 2004 AIAA International Communication Satellites Systems Conference Monterey California May 9-12 2004 9 T eoretica Q AdaptiveRx T7 fl uI I 1 0 1 The results have been presented for QPSK wK<aflman Filte-r Pi LL1 modulation however similar performance results are achieved for higher-order modulation schemes erage SNF per Bit dB Figure 12 BER performance of the proposed architecture with type I adaptive fading amplitude estimator for Rayleigh flat fading channel maximum Doppler shift  93 Hz 7 CONCLUSIONS The paper has presented case without any data modulation In terms of the bit error variance and bit one case a fade envelope bandwidth of 12 Hz is used corresponding to error variance is close to nonzero phase tracking a novel and robust adaptive receiver that jointly estimates the fading amplitude distortion induced by Rayleigh fading channels as well a novel phase estimator which also involves data detection The phase noise estimate is input to 


8 U Mengali and A N D'Andrea Synchronization Techniques for Digital Receivers Plenum Press 1997 9 L E Franks Carrier and Bit Synchronization in Data Communication A Tutorial Review IEEE Trans On Communications vol COM-28 NO.8 pp 1107-1121 Aug 1980 10 W C Lindsey and M K simon Telecommunication Systems Engineering Prentice-Hall 1973 11 M K Simon Optimum Receiver Structures for Phase-Multiplexed Modulations IEEE Trans On Communications Vol 26 NO 6 p 865-872 June 1978 12]A J Rustako L J Greenstein R S Roman and A M Saleh Using Times-Four Carrier Recovery in MQAM Digital Radio Receivers IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications vol SAC-5 NO.3 pp 524-533 April 1987 13]Y Lee Y Jung G Jeong and E Chang A Limiter Added 4th Multiplying PLL Carrier Recovery Technique for 16-QAM Signal IEEE 1997 14]H C Osborne A Generalized Polarity-Type Costas Loop for Tracking MPSK Signals IEEE Trans On Communications Vol 30 NO 10 p 2289-2296 October 1982 15]N Liskov and R Curtis Performance of Coherent Phase and Amplitude Digital Modulations with Carrier Recovery Noise IEEE Trans on Communications vol COM-35 NO.9 pp 972-976 Sept 1987 16]R Kumar Impact of Ionospheric Scintillation on GPS/WAAS System and its Mitigation Techniques Proceedings of the Institute of Navigation 55th Annual National Meeting January 27th 1999 17]R Kumar P Munjal Simulation Studies for Ionospheric Scintillation Proceedings of the Institute of Navigation 54th Annual National Meeting Junel-3 1998,Kansas City 18 R Kumar Optimum Filters and Smoothers Design for Carrier Phase and Frequency Tracing National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory publication 8710 19]B D 0 Anderson and J B Moore Optimal filtering Prentice-Hall 1979 BIOGRAPHY Dr Rajendra Kumar is Professor and Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering at California State University Long Beach He also has a joint appointment at the Aerospace Corporation as a Senior Engineering Specialist He has published about 100 papers on Communication Systems GPS Adaptive Signal Processing and Adaptive Control He has received seven patents in the area of Communication and GPS Systems and has two patents pending He has about 30 years of experience in these areas He is the recipient of twelve NASA Tech Brief and Patent Disclosure awards from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Washington D.C He received the Best Paper award at the 1986 International Telemetering Conference and the Distinguished Faculty award at the California State University He is a Senior Member of IEEE and Member of AIAA and ION He received his B.Tech and M.Tech in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur and Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from the University of Newcastle in Australia His biography is listed in Who is Who in the World Who is Who in America and Who is Who in Science and Engineering and many other biographical reference works Ramses Diaz de Leon joined Rockwell Semiconductors in 1998 working on RF and mixed signal integrated circuit design post silicon validations for cellular phone applications He moved to Broadcom Corporation in 2005 were he serves as a senior staff member in the Enterprise Networking division His research interests include adaptive signal processing estimation theory multi-user detection spread spectrum satellite communications and radar signal processing Ramses received a Bachelor's of Science in Electrical Engineering from Universidad Autonoma de Baja 10 


California Mexicali Mexico He is currently completing the requirements for the Master's in Science in Electrical Engineering at California State University Long Beach 11 


 12 7  C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK  This research task started with an all-FORTRAN implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm converted it to C code, and developed a number of H W/SW systems on the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA The execution ti me of the all software C implementation of the FTIR spectrometry algorithm was recorded and used for comparison as a base case Two software-based optimizations were applied that reduced the executi on time by more than 4.5x These included modifying the cod e to use all single-precision math library functions no n-ANSI when dealing with single-precision data and utilizi ng the IBM Performance Libraries  Perflib  to improve the speed of all single and double-precision arithmetic The idea of using a DP-only Perflib was introduced and then used in conjunction with the single-precision APU-FPU to fu rther improve system performance The bulk of the research dealt with looking into ha rdwarebased improvements to the FTIR spectrometry system  These included the Xilinx APU-FPU, and a single-pre cision dot-product co-processor The APU-FPU delivered significant speedup for all single-precision floati ng-point operations The dot-product co-processor although ineffective in the FTIR spectrometry system due to poor spatial locality of the data, showed nearly a 2x im provement over the APU-FPU when working with smaller, sequent ially accessed data sets Furthermore it was implemented  as a load/store-based APU-connected FCM thus establishin g a reference for creating similar APU co-processors T he design of a non-system-bused CPU-coupled co-process or is frequently overlooked in design guides yet it is a  very effective way to offload software routines to hardw are implementation The ML410 development board on which all of this w ork was conducted, hosts the V4FX60 hybrid-FPGA contain ing two PPC405 processors This research task focused o n optimizing the performance of the FTIR spectrometry  algorithm on a single PPC405 core, however, the des ign can be extended to utilize both available cores. Figure 16 on the following page shows a dual-core design that can be  implemented on the ML410 board The two PPC405 processors each have dedicated PLB interfaces but s hare a common OPB. On the common OPB, the processors need to negotiate access to the RS232 UART and SystemACE CF  controller. This negotiation can be done through du al-ported shared BRAM accessible by each processor from thei r respective PLB. The ML410 board has two external me mory interfaces that are both utilized in this concept PPC405 CPU0 uses the DDR2 DIMM 256 Mbytes while PPC405 CPU1 utilizes the DDR on-board component memory 64  Mbytes\. Each of the processors has some dedicated on-chip memory OCM connected through OCM interface The instruction side OCM is particularly necessary so e ach processor can store its own boot code in its own on chip memory as booting both processors from external mem ory may not be possible Both processors have their own FPUs connected on dedicated FCB interfaces Since the processing of individual interferograms is a comple tely independent task an up to 2x reduction in executio n time may be possible with a dual-core system However o ne bottleneck that may limit the speedup is negotiatin g access to the shared CF card controller Additional improvement to the overall performance o f the FTIR spectrometry system may be possible by rewriti ng the software in C. The automatic conversion from FORTRA N to C using f2c most likely does not produce optimal code, and it is certainly not appealing to read Some functio ns may also need to be rewritten with an optimized pattern  of data access This can help in cases such as the dot-prod uct coprocessor Further performance improvement may be achieved by trying a different compiler one that is specifical ly targeted for the embedded PPC405 processor A V2P performanc e study done at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center concluded that using the WindRiver Diab DCC 5.2 com piler provides a 38 performance increase over the GNU-GC C 3.4 compiler The comparison was based on running a  Dhrystone benchmark application on a 400 MHz PPC405 design The GNU-GCC compiler achieved 458 DMIPS while the WindRiver Diab DCC achieved 628 DMIPS as  reported by Xilinx\ [10   Implementing additional hardware co-processors may result in the further reduction of execution time Using t he dotproduct design as a reference the FFT function fo r example can be implemented in the hardware This w ill help in the spectrum computation component of the s oftware processing. It may be necessary to re-arrange the d ata access pattern for optimal co-processor performance to av oid the pitfall seen when deploying the dot-product core Finally, no embedded processing system is complete without an OS. Linux is a good choice and is supported by X ilinx in EDK It is important to first finalize the hardware  design prior to deploying the OS Support for the APU may be lacking in Linux and getting the OS to recognize th e hardware FPU may be a project in itself For the FTIR spectrometry algorithm this research task started the process of moving from an all software system to a mixed HW/SW implementation on the V4FX60 hybridFPGA In the best case a more than 8x speedup was achieved compared to the FTIR base system This implementation, although nearly 2x faster the V2P s ystem at NASA JPL still lags behind the current state-of-th e-art space processor  the BAE RAD750 However the marg in between the two was narrowed down significantly and with further research as suggested above will most lik ely be eliminated altogether Directly benefiting from the  work presented in this paper is a 3-year JPL technology 


 13 development task that will support the MATMOS on-bo ard processing implementation for a future flight i nstrument   Fig. 16 Dual-core concept targeting ML410 development boar d 


 14 R EFERENCES  1  D L Bekker Hardware and Software Optimization of Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry on HybridFPGAs  MS Thesis Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester NY August 2007 Available http://hdl.handle.net/1850/4805  2  P J Pingree J.-F L Blavier G C Toon and D  L Bekker An FPGA/SoC Approach to On-Board Data Processing  Enabling New Mars Science with Smart Payloads in IEEE Aerospace Conference 2007  Big Sky MT March 2007 Available http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?isnu mber=4 144550&arnumber=4161501  3  S I Feldman D M Gay M W Maimone and N L Schryer, “A Fortran-to-C Converter,” Computing Scie nce Technical Report 149, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murra y Hill NJ March 22 1995 Available http://www.netlib.org/f2c/f2c.pdf  4  IBM PowerPC Embedded Processor Performance Libraries tech rep IBM Microelectronics Divisi on Hopewell Junction, NY, December 12 2003 5  Virtex-4 Data Sheet: DC and Switching Characterist ics Datasheet DS302 Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 27 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/publications/ds302.pdf  6  ML410 Embedded Development Platform  Xilinx Inc San Jose CA March 6 2007 Available http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug085.pdf  7  G Toon J.-F Blavier M McAuley and A Kiely Advanced On-Board Science Data Processing System for a Mars-orbiting FTIR Spectrometer R&TD Task 01STCR  R.05.023.048 NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Pasadena, CA, 2005 8  APU Floating-Point Unit v3.0 product specificati on Xilinx Inc San Jose CA January 26 2007 Availa ble http://www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/ipcenter/data_sheet/ap u_fp u.pdf  9  PowerPC 405 Processor Block Reference Guide Xilinx Inc San Jose CA July 20 2005 Available www.xilinx.com/bvdocs/userguides/ug018.pdf  10  D. Petrick, “Analyzing the Xilinx Virtex-II Pro Pow erPC with the Dhrystone Benchmark Applications,” tech. r ep NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Greenbelt Maryland Available http://klabs.org/DEI/Processor/PowerPC/v2pro_ppc_pe rf ormance_petrick.doc  B IOGRAPHY  Dmitriy Bekker has just completed his Masters Degree in Computer Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His areas of interest include FPGAs embedded systems digital signal processing and system architecture. He has coop  internship experience working at Brookhaven National Laboratory Syracuse Research Corporation NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He recen tly won in the 2006 IEEE Student Design Contest for his pro ject in autonomous vehicle navigation. He is a member of IE EE Dr Lukowiak is an assistant professor in the Computer Engineering Department at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester NY His research interests are concentrated in the area of multidisciplinary projects that require modeling and hardware implementations FPGA and ASIC of data processing systems Dr Marcin Lukowi ak obtained his Ph.D in Technical Sciences from the P oznan University of Technology in October 2001 Muhammad Shaaban is an associate professor of computer engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology His research interests include high performance computing processor microarchitecture heterogeneous and reconfigurable computing Shaaban has a PhD in Computer Engineering from the University of Souther n California. He is a senior member of the IEEE Dr. Blavier first joined the JPLMkIV Team in August 1985 as a contractor from Ball Aerospace He participated in the MkIV campaigns in McMurdo Antarctica groundbased and from Punta Arenas Chile NASA DC-8 In late 1987, he started graduate work with Profs Delbouille and Dubois at the University  of Liège Belgium his research tasks included install ing the 


 15 Fourier transform spectrometers at the Internationa l Scientific Station of the Jungfraujoch Switzerland  for atmospheric measurements and at the Institute of Astrophysics in Liège for laboratory measurements He was hired by JPL in August 1990 as MkIV cognizant engin eer and participated in all the MkIV campaigns since th en \(one DC-8 campaign 19 balloon campaigns Dr J.-F Bla vier obtained his Ph.D in Physics from the University o f Liège in July 1998 Paula Pingree is a Senior Engineer in the Instruments and Science Data Systems Division at JPL She has been involved in the design integration test and operation of several JPL flight projects most recently Deep Impact DI She has worked on the Tunable Laser Spectrometer development for the 2009 Mars Rover and is presently the Electronics CogE for the Juno Mission s Microwave Radiometer She also enjoys research and technology development for Smart Payloads in her s pare time Paula has a Bachelor of Engineering degree i n Electrical Engineering from Stevens Institute of Te chnology in Hoboken, NJ, and an MSEE degree from California State University Northridge.  She is a member of IEEE 


  16  Figure 15. AIRS-AMSRE differences as a function of AIRS error estimate over one day  AIRS has an error estimate of the total water vapor value that it calculates. The diffe rences between AIRS and AMSR-E are shown as a function of this estimate in figure 15 and very little correlation is found 11  R ELEVANT W ORK  Merged A-Train Level 2 Data A merged product that preserves the relationship of observed atmospheric water properties facilitates the hydrological studies by enabling scientists to get directly at the model data without worrying about the logistics of finding, collecting, and coordinating the measured quantities from different instruments. Previously there did not exist a capability to discover and access data from the A-Train\222s multiple instruments as merged multi-parameter data sets Enabling Orchestratable Service Workflows Our distributed service-oriented approach of loosely coupled services also enable s a higher level of reusability and orchestration with other services. Increasing numbers of workflow engines are already supporting Web Services as components/operators, which can then be orchestrated together into higher-level meta/virtual services SciFlo, a Scientific Dataflow Execution Environment, is a workflow engine that already supports assembling reusable SOAP Services, native execu tables, local command-line scripts, and codes into a distributed computing flow \(a graph of operators\8 SciFlo can u tilize o u r g en eric SOAP services as part of a larger coordinated data flow The Taverna Workbench is a free software tool for designing and executing workflows. Like SciFlo, it can orchestrate SOAP-based Web Services as components within a workflow. Taverna provides a visual editor to construct and edit the sequence of services in the workflow We have found that Taverna can dynamically introspect a given WSDL and construct the workflow component interface representing it Giovanni Giovanni, an acronym for the Goddard Earth Sciences Data and Information Services Cent er, or GES DISC, Interactive Online Visualization and Analys is Infrastructure, is a webbased tool to help visualize Earth science data  It  provides a simple and intuitive way to visualize, analyze and access vast amounts of Eart h science remote sensing data without having to download the data. Similar to the services developed here, it addresses the difficulties of traditional data acquisition and analysis methods by moving the complexity to the server-side Giovanni provides multiple in terface instances based on instrument and measurement ty pes. For example, the \223ATrain Along CloudSat Track Inst ance\224 can provide plots of vertical profiles of clouds, temperature, humidity, cloud and aerosol classification across the multiple instruments of the A-Train A distinction between Givanni\222s A-Train data and the data set in this paper is that we are using a formal merged product of the A-Train. We leverage the NEWS effort that is based on error- and resolution-weighted mean of the input data sets, with associated uncertainty estimates. This provides a formal model of the collective A-Train observations rather than the collection of the individual instrument measurements Each of Giovanni\222s multiple interface instances provides a very simple and easy to use web interface. However, we recognized that sometimes scientists want more than the simple interfaces. Some scien tists may want to process Level 3 products using their own trusted code, or may want to perform variations of their own plots. With Giovanni, the individual scientist wanting more custom advanced capabilities must depend on the Giovanni development team Giovanni is based on the web portal paradigm where users visit a web page and use web tools to find and visualize data. Similar to Giovanni, our client APIs also make data acquisition more seamless. However, our services are based on the different paradigm were the power and flexibility of data analysis and processing are shifted back into the scientists own familiar computing environments. We realize that scientists generally want to perform \223exploratory computing\224 where they can sere ndipitously analyze the data using their own familiar and trusted code 


  17 Giovanni 2 was inherently synchronous where processing was bounded to a single http session. Long service running times still require the user to hold the same http session Similar to our asynchronous Web Service we discussed, the upcoming Giovanni 3 will be supporting asynchronous sessions. They will be using a RSS feed to monitor the service request. Version 3 will also be based on a servicesoriented architecture, wher e Giovanni services can be offered as a standard SOAP Web Services. This is similar to our approach, as well as SciFlo\222s services 12  C ONCLUSIONS  To achieve the science research goal of investigating longterm and global-scale trends in climate, water and energy cycle, and weather variability, we enhanced and improved on existing algorithms to work with distributed and heterogeneous data and information systems infrastructure By developing a service-oriented architecture for discovering, accessing, and mani pulating of NEWS merged A-Train data sets, we can strengthen the interconnectedness and reusability of these services across broader range of Earth science investigations The merged NEWS Level 2 data is a formal model containing the voluminous data from the AIRS, AMSR-E MLS, MODIS, and CloudSat instruments. Previously scientists wanting to perform long-term and global-scale studies encompassing simultaneous measured quantities would quickly face a data acce ss hurdle of first finding the data, then manually downloading them, and finally merging the data into a cohesive model\227before starting their analysis. Additionally the voluminous nature of the data particularly because of the MODIS data\each scientist potentially downloading the same data resulting in redundancy of reprocessing on the client sides. Our paradigm pushes more of the commonly repeated processing onto the server side. Moreover, this avoids repeated downloading of the same data among the science users. We can deliver customi zed averaged, subsetted, and summarized data of the merged A-Train observations to the scientists for them to immediately begin their analysis work We recognized that scientists also often want to perform 223exploratory computing\224 where they can freely explore the aspects of the data and run serendipitous exploration in their own familiar environment. We developed client-side distributed APIs in popular analysis environments such as Matlab, IDL, and Python. Our APIs hide the complexity of Web Services and allow the service capabilities to be embedded in the scientists own computing environments By purposely avoiding the \223web portal\224 paradigm and providing the suite of platform specific APIs in each of these language platforms, we enable the scientists to remain within their own familiar environments to select, process and download the data seamlessly into their environment for their own further analysis. Alternative methods involving web portals force the scientists to leave the environment and manually interact with the web portal to search and download the data We can examine not only long-term changes in amplitude of a single variable but also those among multiple variables Our L3Q clustering method was specifically designed to preserve information about the covariability of multiple observations, such as those from the A-Train.  Weather and climate variability is characterized by changes among atmospheric observables, but those changes have been limited by a lack of observations and analytical techniques We are not aware of any multi-parameter analyses to date The full potential of the A-Train climate record will not be realized until the multi-parameter climatology is understood. The work presented is one method of approaching this difficult problem Our service tool addresses several objectives of the NASA Earth science data community including 1\mprove interoperability to facilitate the transparent access and manipulation of heterogeneous and distributed data by science users, 2\ransition and deploy existing Earth science research analysis tools and software using a 223Service Oriented Architecture\224 \(SOA\ to enhance their reuse potential for other science domains and improve overall awareness and access of these tools by a broad community, 3\ increase users\222 ability to customize their discovery, access, deliv ery, manipulation, and preferred format of data and information 12  F UTURE W ORK  On-demand Level 3T Summaries from Level 3Q We plan to develop services for creating custom summaries of the L3Q data into more refined Level 3T summaries L3T\create their own custom Level 3 products on demand from L3Q. The custom Level 3 products are the transformation of L3Q data based on user-specific objectives such as regression and correlation analyses. The cust om production will generate not only the transformed data but also the statistical estimation of the accuracy of the summarized data based on the distribution of L3Q and the quality of L3Q Delegating the Temporal-Spatial Data Querying Currently, our processing layer utilizes existing and legacy processing code that was developed in IDL, Matlab, and C++. Though the original intent was to be able to adapt existing code and wrap as a service, this meant maintaining its original form of accessing the source data for processing Small modifications were made to enable these codes to quickly access the data based on file path and file naming schemes. However, we want to decouple the file accessibility and processing roles 


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


