Implementation of Fuzzy Control for Surface Platforms in A Computer Generated Forces Toolkit   Levent SENYUREK, Seniha KOKSAL, Hakki Murat GENC,  Deniz ALDOGAN, Mehmet HAKLIDIR TUBITAK Marmara Research Center, Information Technologies Institute 41470, Gebze-Kocaeli, TURKEY levent.senyurek, seniha.koksal, murat.genc, deniz.aldo an, mehmet.haklidir}@bte.mam.gov.tr   Abstract  Realistic models and realistic control is vital to reach a sufficient fidelity in military simulation projects including surface platforms. In this study, a fuzzy logic controller \(FLC\mplemented in 
conjunction with environment models and platform motion models possessing high-fidelity. The former one considers waves, current, wind, season, day and night while the latter trusts on complex motion equations including the effect of hy drodynamic force-moments and their high performance is proved by comparison with real cruise data. The FLC is optimized with a recently introduced method, namely Big Bang-Big Crunch algorithm. After all, the controllers are integrated to the component architecture of VR-Forces which is a commercial framework for developing Computer Generated Forces \(CGF\ applications 
 1. Introduction  To reach a sufficient fidelity for a training military simulation including surface platforms, the need of realistic models and realistic control is vital. In our study, we used an environmental model and platform motion models with high-fidelity. The mathematical surface platform model introduced in u s ed to develop the FLC and PD controllers. The former one considers waves, current, wind, season, day and night 
while the latter trusts on complex motion equations including the effect of hydrodynamic force-moments and their high performance is proved by comparison with real cruise data. To reach our purpose, a realistic control model is necessary as well, which is the main focus of our study In this work, “controller” is actually a simulation of quartermaster of the platform. That is to say, the design objective is not optimizing an autopilot. So, a fuzzy 
logic controller \(FLC\le of simulating human expert behavior seems to be a proper choice. FLCs are widely  used for that purpose in the literatu  One can model the controller by simply writing down the linguistic rules that also direct a human operator Besides modeling a controller close to human operator\ature, fuzzy logic \(FL\ is also applied for auto-steering purposes. Some applications show that FLC performance is already superior in both course changing and course keeping duties than classical PID 
3, 4, 5, 6, 8 C s o u tperf o r m clas s i cal P I Ds  especially for changing environmental conditions where online tuning of PID control parameters are needed [5, 6   A flexible fuzzy logic library \(FLL\is implemented in the C++ programming language, which is used to construct the optimized FLCs. The controllers are integrated to the component architecture of VR-Forces which is a commercial framework for developing Computer Generated Forces \(CGF\s The rest of the paper is divided into 6 sections. In 
Section 2, surface platform motion model is given. In section 3 and 4, architecture and optimization of FLC is detailed and simulation results are given. Section 5 is dedicated to implementation of FLL. Integration of the library with the ship model is in Section 6. Finally possible extensions and conclusions are given in Section 7  2. The Surface Platform Motion Model  2.1. Surface Platform Motion Equations  The motion of surface platforms in 6 Degree of 
Freedom is considered since six independent coordinates are necessary to determine the position and orientation of a rigid body. The description of degree of freedom and the respective notation are shown in Table 1   CIMCA 2008,  IAWTIC 2008,  and ISE 2008 978-0-7695-3514-2/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CIMCA.2008.175 832 


Table 1  Degree of Freedom Description and Notation  DOF  1  2  3  4  56 Description  Surge  Sway  Heave  Roll  Pitch Yaw Axis  x  y  z  x  yz Forces and moments  X  Y  Z  K  MN Linear and angular veloc  u  v  w  p  qr Positions and Euler angles  x  y  z     Two coordinate frames are necessary to define the motion of surface platforms. \(Figure 1    Figure 1 Coordinate System   The moving coordinate frame X 0 Y 0 Z 0 is fixed to the vehicle and is called the body-fixed reference frame. The origin O of this frame is usually chosen to coincide with the center of gravity \(CG\ the surface platform. The motion of the body-fixed frame is described relative to an inertial reference frame X Y Z 12,1  Representing the motion equations in the Cartesian system of coordinates and defining x G y G and z G as the position of the ship’s CG, the well known motion equations of a rigid body are giving by the following   Surge 22  GGG X m u qw rv x q r y pq r z rp q       1 Sway 22  GGG Ymvrupwyr p zqrp xqpr      2 Heave 22  GGG Z mw pv qu z p q x rp q y rq p       3 Roll    XZy G G K I p I I qr m y w pv qu z u ru pw       4 Pitch    yxZ G G M Iq I I rp mz u qw rv x w pv qu      5 Yaw     Zyx G G N I r I I pq m x v ru pw y u qw rv       6  2.2. Simplifying Assumptions  Simplifying assumptions used in this study are following    The rotational velocity and acceleration about the y-axis are zero \(q q    The translational velocity and acceleration in the z direction are zero. \(w w 0   The origin of the fixed body is the center of gravity \(CG\ and this point is the center of motion   The vertical center of gravity, \(VCG\s on the centerline and symmetrical \(y G 0  2.3. Simplified Motion Equations  Applying simplifying assumptions to the general surface platform motion equations, the following simplified equations of motion are obtained Surge 2  GG X mu rv x r z rp   8 Sway  GG Ymvruzpxr   9 Roll  XG K Ip mz u ru   10 Yaw  ZG N Ir mx v ru   11  2.4. Nonlinear Equations of Motion  A nonlinear maneuvering model is obtained by combining equations of hydrodynamic forces and moments d th e env i ronm ental dis t u r ban ce w i t h 4 DOF simplified equations of motion. To simplify the analysis even further, equations are converted to a nondimensional form ll t h e equ a tio n s are i n t h e  non-dimensional form, denoted by the symbol  22 2  1  sin vr vv rr RX N XXu tTJXvrXv Xr XcF             21 833 


33 2 22 22 2 1  cos v r p vvv rrr vvr vrr vv v rr r HN YYvYrYpY Yv Yr Yvr Yvr Yv Yv Yr Y r aF                       22 332 22 22 2 1  cos v r p vvv rrr vvr vrr vv v rr r HRN K Kv Kr K p K K v K r K v r Kvr Kv Kv Kr Kr azF                        23 33 222 2 22 cos vr p vvv rrr vvr vrr vv v rr r R H H N NNvNrNpN Nv Nr Nvr Nvr Nv Nv Nr Nr x ax F                           24  3. Architecture of the FLC  Quartermaster controls the heading and the speed of vessels by two actuators, the rudder angle and the shaft speed respectively. The latter two are the outputs of our FLCs. We preferred to use FLCs derived from classical controllers, as in many applications in literatu ploit both t h e adv a n t a g es of fuzzy logic and classical control. As a result, the error between the desired and the actual heading and speed are used as controller inputs with their integrals and derivatives Overall control system model is multi-input-multioutput \(MIMO\ FLC with four inputs and two outputs But two different FLCs for controlling each output parameters are easier to design and optimize, still with sufficient performance. As a result we have built a multi-input-single-output \(MISO\ PD type FLC for controlling the direction and a MISO PI type FLC for controlling the speed of the vessel. The closed loop simulink\ model of the heading control is introduced in Figure 2. \(The model for the speed control is analogous and therefore omitted\he MATLAB Function in Figure 2 simulates the cruise process by using a physical model with high fidelity. In course control, there is no much noise or sharp characteristics and we took advantage of anticipatory nature of derivative term in the controller. On the other hand speed control is affected by course alterations disturbance\hat is why a PI-FLC is implemented PID-FLC is not implemented to improve algorithm run-time   Figure 2  Simulink Model of the Fuzzy heading controller   The universe of discourse is chosen to be [-1  interval. The physical inputs and outputs are scaled to this range through scaling factors Scaling factors can be divided into two groups as input scaling factors \(ISFs\nd output scaling factors OSFs\s normalize the real world inputs to the range MFs are defined. OSF is used to change the normalized control effort to its practical value. The relation between real and normalized values of the parameters can be simply given as         FLC e FLC FLC FLC FLC de FLC FLC o eek ee eek uu u u k      where FLC e and   FLC FLC ee  are the normalized parameters entering FLC controller  FLC FLC uu  is the normalized FLC output; e e  and u  are respective actual outputs, and e k  de k  o k are the error scaling factor, change of error scaling factor and the control effort change scaling factor respectively There is no general rule for scaling factor selection in FLCs. It is a global optimization problem which is quite tedious most of the time. In the specific problem at hand, we searched the three parameters by utilizing Big Bang – Big Crunch \(BB-BC\ optimization algorithm. BB-BC, proposed by Erol and Eksin a global optimization method that relies on nature inspired heuristics, namely, the Big Bang – Big Crunch Theory. The algorithm generates random points in the 834 


Big Bang phase and shrinks those points to a single representative point via a center of mass or minimal cost approach in the Big Crunch phase. It is reported to be capable of quick convergence even in long, narrow parabolic shaped flat valleys or in the existence of several local minima. By using the method, we sampled some reference courses \(in the physically allowable range\d found corresponding scaling factors in relatively short time The inputs and the outputs are defined by seven linguistic variables over the specified range, namely negative medium negative small\Z \(zero\S \(positive small\M positive medium\L \(positive large\For input representation we used symmetric triangles \(except the membership functions \(MFs\at the two extreme ends with equal base and %50 overlap with the neighboring MF \(Figure 3\The rule base for FLC has the most unbiased symmetric structure and consists of 49 rules Table 2  Table 2  The rule base for Fuzzy Logic heading and speed contollers   e/e NL NM NS Z PS PM PL PL Z PS PM PL PL PL PL PM NS Z PS PM PL PL PL PS NM NS Z PS PM PL PL Z NL NM NS Z PS PM PL NS NL NL NM NS Z PS PM NM NL NL NL NM NS Z PS NL NL NL NL NL NM NS Z  For output representation we preferred singleton MFs to decrease computational complexity. Figure 3 shows the MFs for the inputs and the outputs of FLCs used    e and  e  e and  e    u  u  Figure 3  The input and output membership functions for the Fuzzy Logic heading and speed controllers  4. Simulation Results  Figure 4 and Figure 5 show the change of heading of the ship with respect to time for two extreme cases The Fuzzy Logic heading controller is compared with manually tuned PD controller in which classical Ziegler-Nichols method is utilized as a starting parameter set. In both cases, the initial heading angle is considered as zero. In the first case \(Figure 4\e initial shaft speed of the vessel is at maximum level 240 rpm\d the ship is forced to a 5° \(small rotation, while in the second case the initial shaft speed is 70 rpm \(resulting a slow speed value of about 5 knots\d the desired rotation is 180° \(maximum possible change\he result obtained by the Fuzzy controller is represented by solid lines, while the dashed lines are the results of the classical PD controller 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7     time/[sec heading angle  Figure 4  Change of heading of the ship in time, controlled by a Fuzzy Logic and a classical PD controller \(dashed line in a high speed-small rotation case  0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 50 0 50 100 150 200     heading angle time/[sec  Figure 5 Change of heading of the ship in time, controlled 835 


by a Fuzzy Logic and a classical PD controller \(dashed line in a low speed-large rotation case   Results show that in both extreme cases, the designed fuzzy logic rotation controller is superior to classical PD control even in auto steering only. So it actually seems to be a good choice to use fuzzy logic for simulating quartermaster behavior, since FLC’s are also superior for designing expert systems to simulate human operators Results also approve our choice of using two MISO fuzzy controllers for controlling speed and heading distinctly. Change in speed doesn’t have a considerable effect on heading control  5. Implementation of FLL  A generic FLL has been implemented in C language for FLC. Configuration parameters for the library such as input and output numbers, rules and for each input and output; name, type and attributes of membership are kept in a XML file. In order to configure different type of rules, rule schemes are defined first and then rules are configured with these schemes. A part of configuration file is shown in Figure 5  Counts Input>2</Input Output>1</Output RuleNumber>21</RuleNumber Counts IOs IO type>Input</type name>error</name membershipType>triangle</membershipType membershipPartCount>7</membershipPartCount  start>-1</start finish>1</finish triangles triangle>1;-1;-0.75;-0.5</triangle  triangles  IOs RuleSchemes RuleScheme Schemeid>1</Schemeid IO>error</IO IO>and</IO IO>errordot</IO IO>controloutput</IO RuleScheme  RuleSchemes  Rules Rule>1;1;1;1</Rule Rule>1;2;1;1</Rule  Rules Figure 5 A part of FFL configuration file   6. Integration of FLL to Ship Model  In this study, VR-Forces framework has been utilized for implementing the CGF and GUI applications. The CGF engine is responsible for the simulation of the entities by the aid of the VR-Forces component architecture.  In this architecture, there are three types of components: namely controllers actuators and sensors. Controllers receive information about the tasks assigned to entities by the user via the GUI. They also control the motion of the entities by supplying the required parameters \(heading, speed, etc in order to fully realize the task.  There are different controllers each of which are specialized for a certain kind of task. Actuators obtain the necessary parameters from the controllers and realize the entity actions such as entity motion, etc GUI application, also called front-end, supplies communication between user and CGF engine. User enters commands for the scenario preparation, run control, etc. The user commands for building a scenario can be adding and deleting entities, assigning tasks to entities such as move along a given route move to a specific point, move towards a given bearing. Whenever a task command is inputted from GUI, a data interaction in the form of a VR-Forces message is sent to CGF engine The  motion model for the ship has been developed as a VR-Forces independent software module and has been integrated to the actuator component as a composite object.  Similarly, FLL has been embedded in VR-Forces heading, speed and depth controller components. An example task is handled as follows the task controller which is responsible for adjusting the heading for the current command receives the point or bearing to head for. In each simulation frame time the heading controller supplies FLL with desired heading along with the derivative of successive heading values. After that, FLL calculates the rudder angle for the ship movement. This rudder angle is taken by the actuator and sent to the ship motion module to calculate the next position of the ship under consideration. These steps are repeated until the task is accomplished  7. Conclusion and Future Works  836 


In this work a simulation model is given from scratch: The high fidelity ship model is given with the motion dynamics and a fuzzy logic controller designed to mimic captain control strategy. In the search for the scaling factors, where there is a lack of systematic method, recently introduced fast convergence-proven big bang-big crunch optimization method is utilized The whole design is integrated to the component architecture of VR-Forces, which is a framework for developing Computer Generated Forces \(CGF applications The system response is influenced by the environmental condition and maneuver characteristics i.e. turning amount, speeding up start and end points vs.\hough we have designed our control to cover all influences, a more specified design can upgrade the performance in each different case. To provide this a supervisor FLC controller can be designed to choose specific control strategy/controller/parameter set Also, the fuzzy controller might be converted into a simpler controller interpolating over the control surface, which would further decrease computational complexity and the difference of the results would be negligible, thanks to the smooth structure of the control surface  8. References  1  Haklidir, M., Aldogan, D., Tasdelen, I., High Fidelity Modeling and Simulation of Surface Platforms in a Computer Generated Forces Toolkit, The Society for Modeling Simulation International [SCS 2 008 S u m m e r Co m pute r  Simulation Conference \(SCSC'08\nburgh, Scotland, 1619 June 2008 2  O. K. Erol Eksin, “A new optimization method: Big Bang–Big Crunch”, Advances in Engineering Software vol 37, 2006, pp. 106–111 3  Roland Stelzer, Tobias Proll, and Robert I. John, “Fuzzy Logic Control System for Autonomous Sailboats”, Fuzzy Systems Conference, Fuzz-IEEE 2007, 2007, pp 1-6 4  Songtao Zhang, Guang Ren, “Backstepping Approach to Ship Steering Autopilot based on Fuzzy Adaptive Control Proceedings of the 6th World Congress on Intelligent Control and Automation, 2006 5  Minh-Duc Le, Si-Hiep Nguyen, Lan-Anh Nguyen Study on a new and effective fuzzy PID ship autopilot Artif Life Robotics, 8:197–201, 2004 6  Rajani K. Mudi and Nikhil R. Pal, “A Robust SelfTuning Scheme for PI- and PD-Type Fuzzy Controllers IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 7, No. 1, 1999 7  Hakk Murat Gen brahim Eksin, Müjde Güzelkaya Engin Ye il, “A rule-base modification for time delay systems”, ASC 2006, The 10th IASTED International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing Palma de Mallorca, Spain 8  Wang Minghui, Yu Yongquan, Zeng Bi, “Ship Steering System Based on Fuzzy Control Using Real-Time Tuning Algorithm”, Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Information Technology and Applications ICITA’05 9  Minghui Wang , Yongquan Yu, Bi Zeng, “Ship Steering System Based on Fuzzy Control Using Real-Time Tuning Algorithm”, Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Information Technology and Applications ICITA'05\ Vol. 2, 2005, pp. 577 – 580 10  VR-Forces Developer’s Guide. Mak Technologies 11  SNAME\(1950\, The Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers. Nomenclature for treating the motion of submerged body through a fluid, Technical Research Bulletin No. 1-5 12  Sicuro, D. L. L., Physically Based Modeling And Simulation Of A Ship In Open Water 3-D Virtual Environment, Master Thesis, Naval Postgraduate School Monterey, California, 2003 13  Fossen, T. I., Guidance and Control of Ocean Vehicles John Wiley & Sons, 1994 14  Logsdon, M., “Coupled Roll and Directional Stability Characteristics of Surface Ships,” Master’s Thesis, Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA, June 1992 15  Son, K. H. and Nomoto, K., On the Coupled Motion of Steering and Rolling of a High Speed Container Ship, Naval Architect of Ocean Engineering, Vol. 20, 1982, pp. 73-83 837 


12 Sriram Krishnan Brent Steam Karan Bhatia Kim Baldridge Wilfred W Li Peter W Arzberger Opal SimpleWeb Services Wrappers for Scientific Applications ICWS 2006 823-832 13 Galip Aydin Zhigang Qi Marlon E Pierce Yehuda Bock and Geoffrey C Fox Building a Sensor Grid for Real Time Global Positioning System Data Proceedings of Workshop on Principles of Pervasive Information Systems Design Sunday May 13 2007 In conjunction with Pervasive 2007 Toronto Ontario Canada 14 Galip Aydin Zhigang Qi Marlon E Pierce Geoffrey C Fox Yehuda Bock Architecture Performance and Scalability of a Real-Time Global Positioning System Data Grid Special issue on Computational Challenges in Geosciences in PEPI Physics of the Earth and Planetary Interiors 15 Jay Alameda Marcus Christie Geoffrey Fox Joe Futrelle Dennis Gannon Mihael Hategan Gopi Kandaswamy Gregor von Laszewski Mehmet A Nacar Marlon Pierce Eric Roberts Charles Severance Mary Thomas  The Open Grid Computing Environments collaboration portlets and services for science gateways Concurrency and Computation Practice and Experience Volume 19 Issue 6 Date 25 April 2007 Pages 921-942 16 Marlon E Pierce Geoffrey Fox Huapeng Yuan and Yu Deng Cyberinfrastructure and Web 2.0 Proceedings of HPC2006 July 4 2006 Cetraro Italy Available from http://grids.ucs.indiana.edu/ptliupages/publications/Web2 OChapterFinal.pdf BIOGRAPHY Marlon Pierce is assistant director of the Community Grids Laboratory at Indiana University and leads the portal and services development for the QuakeSim project His research interests include the application of service-oriented architectures and other distributed systems to problems in applied science Pierce has a Ph D in computational condensed matter physics from Florida State University 1998 7 


frames that fall in each one of the subintervals Finally the program uses the number of frames in each subinterval to plot an approximation of the pdf We note that the number of intervals in range of frame types will correspond to the number of points of the pdf approximation This means that if the number of intervals is small then the plot of the approximate pdf will have a small number of points generating some difficulty in trying to determine an approximate pdf for that frame type On the other hand if the number of frames is too large then there is a very good chance that most of the intervals will have a very small number of frames that fall inside of them resulting in a very choppy plot for the pdf approximation Determining a good number of intervals for each type of frames depends in the number of the frames of that type being analyzed Another problem with such an approach is that by changing the number of intervals for the frame type being analyzed in the case in which the number of frames of that type is small the pdf plot generated can change significantly This is due to the fact that a large number of frames may fall on one side of the boundary of such an interval In the case in which one changes the number of intervals these frames will now fall inside a different interval There are some benefits however for using this Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer First of all it provides a very quick plot which is a rough approximation of the frame size distribution Although the approximations generated by the Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer are better the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer generates plots order of magnitude faster Also the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer provides statistics to the user for each type of frames such as mean and variance of frame sizes minimum and maximum frame size Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer In the previous subsection we presented a program which generates a quick and rough approximation of the frame size distribution given the input data from the video traces The problem with that analyzer was that the distribution generated by the program is highly dependent on the quantization level of the ranges of the frame sizes and is generally not a smooth function due to the limited number of frames in the data sets scenario each one of the frames analyzed should be assumed not to have a size which is deterministic but rather comes from a distribution which is centered on that frame size One such distribution generally used for this type of filtration is a Gaussian normal distribution The benefits of using such a filtration are as follows  The distribution generation will not need to use a quantization technique so the program will not suffer from the quantization issue  The frame size distribution generated using such a filtration method will smooth out some of the noise due to the limited number of data points  We have seen that gamma distributions tend to be a good approximation for frame size distribution of each type Since gamma distribution is a smooth function by filtering some of the statistical noise using a filtration it will enable us to better determine the parameters for the gamma distribution which best approximate video for specific mission scenarios Frame Distribution Fitting Tool This tool is used in conjunction with the Gaussian Filtration Frame Analyzer in order to approximate by a gamma distribution the pdf of the frame sizes for all three types of frames Using this tool the user is able to adjust the two parameters describing the gamma distributions particularly the mean and the K-value which directly influences the variance of the distribution In particular a larger scale will make the distribution taller and narrower For all the data sets the mean of the gamma approximation was taken to be equal to the mean of the true data The K-value was adjusted accordingly in order to best fit the approximation to the true data Analyzed data In this section we present statistical data for the various scenarios proposed This data was gathered using the tools described in the previous sections In Table 2 we provide for each scenario analyzed the mean and the variance of the frame sizes of the I P and B frames We also provide the K-value for the gamma distribution which is centered and the data mean and best approximates the statistical data We plot the approximate gamma distributions for the various types of frames for each one of this scenarios in Figure 3 In this section we present a program which does not suffer from the quantization issue of the Quick Frame Distribution Analyzer Also this program filters out some of the statistical noise which is due to the limited data sets We motivate the intuition for this filtration as follows While making a video of a certain mission scenario a small change in the footage i.e the introduction of a small object in the picture may cause a small change in the encoded frame sizes For this reason while trying to derive a generic distribution to characterize a particular type of video 8 


Table 2 Statistical data for the video frame sizes Scenario I Frame P Frame B Frame 1 Mean 11132 2198 1445 Variance 641670 1363699 229042 KValue 1000 40 90 2 Mean 12030 2130 1447 Variance 492274 980614 154652 KValue 1400 18 70 3 Mean 17987 9406 5587 Variance 3727982 2534264 957960 KValue 170 40 36 4 Mean 14865 8024 5288 Variance 12791453 7026961 5181387 KValue 35 10 7 5 Mean 29453 3218 1638 Variance 605856 1624535 169528 KValue 2300 7 20 6 Mean 29940 3419 1791 Variance 985797 894260 191346 K Value 1700 13 20 7 Mean 35390 7721 3091 Variance 24828010 5436021 3807843 KValue 65 12 10 Scenario I I Frames P Frames BFae r,l iFil   S  WSt  X S iil  I Xf,l  1 iii I t 11 1 I 2604t l 1 I F 1 r0 q  gr 1      Scen rio 9 I Frames  P Frames B Frames  W 


Scenario 3 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 4 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 5 I Frames P Frames B Frames Scenario 6 I Frames P Frames B Frames 10 i m U 


Scenario 7 Figure 3 Plots for the frame size distributions for the various scenarios along with the as the SCaN simulator based was available 11 I Frames P Frames B Frames T  I-1 a-2--a 0 0 0 0 0 m on Qualnet 4 TELEMETRY TRAFFIC MODEL Telemetry transmissions from the spacecraft to the command center generally take as follows First some are aperiodic These traffic may represent various instrumentation measurements sensory outputs file downloads etc On the right side of the picture was not partitioned into sub-channels but rather data was transmitted only when it we come to the following conclusions about the packet size distribution for this type of encoding scheme  In the we present we determine the statistical distribution of the type of video which we are interested in transmitting As we note from the above picture the telemetry transmission wastes one can use the traffic synthesizing tool to generate random traffic whose frame statistical distribution approximates the distribution of the traffic which a lot of bandwidth when a lot or blue sky the size of the I frames is relatively small see scenarios 1 4  In the are much smaller than those of I frames see scenarios 1,2,5,6,7  If the main object in the picture is moving quite are multiplexed together Some of these traffics are constant bit rate are described by on the above data a large evenly painted surface a file in a large amount of bandwidth The type of traffic that generally is being transmitted via a telemetry channel is formed by multiple types of traffic which so that each telemetry data has its a particular sub-channel For this reason cases the telemetry transmission will look something like in Figure 5 Contrary to Figure 4 right side in Figure 5 the channel own designated sub-channel see Figure 4 For example in the left side of Figure 4 can be used by network simulation tools such we are interested in analyzing This synthesized traffic generated by we designate each telemetry type to we have seen one can model the frame sizes of the different type of frames by gamma approximations Based or there is very little detail in the pictures i.e the pictures are of even if the picture has many objects with rich detail the sizes of P and B frames even if the background is rather stationary the distribution of the frame sizes is much thicker i.e having higher variance see scenarios 3,4,7 Video synthesis In this section a video synthesizer for MPEG v4 encoded video which has been developed in order to generate sample traffic for live video transmissions The synthesizing of the video traffic is done a gamma distribution Using the tools developed above on preexisting traffic of the type we are interested to transmit one can find the parameters of the gamma distribution which best fit this type of traffic Given the parameters determined by those tools our tool is outputted to a format which some are periodic in nature while others may be event based non-periodic The classical approach to telemetry is to schedule the transmission we see multiple types of traffic some of which a constant bit rate some are periodic and we see the traffic being fit through a channel which has been partitioned into sub-channels Figure 4 Traffic allocated to dedicated channels As a more desirable approach would be to multiplex together all of the transmissions In such case in which the background for the video is dark case in which there is little movement in the background 


Figure 5 Statistically multiplexed traffic We note that in this case we would be able to utilize some of the free channel space for other types of transmissions which may be more delay tolerant see Figure 6 For example in this figure the bottom blue transmission can be thought to be a file which is packetized and needs to be transmitted down from the spacecraft We consider this file to be delay tolerant i.e the data is not needed right away down on the ground and it has a lower priority then the other traffics needed to be transmitted The delay tolerant packets will be transmitted only when the channel is not being fully utilized as to fill in the gaps available in the channel bandwidth This technique will delay the arrival of the delay tolerant traffic but will enable us to more fully utilize our channel bandwidth m T]T m Figure 6 Telemetry traffic along with delay tolerant traffic being sent via a channel We note in above scenario that although the delay tolerant traffic was transmitted at time 0 none of it was able to be transmitted until time 1 Also we note that the final delay tolerant traffic packet was transmitted 9 time instances later then it was received For this reason a buffering scheme must be devised such that all the delay tolerant traffic may be buffered until enough bandwidth for transmission exists Since no specific data was available on the dynamics of the various telemetry type traffics we developed a generic telemetry model which is formed by two types of traffic one constant bit rate which represents the sensory information which is constantly being transmitted down to the ground and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents file download and periodic data updates We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to telemetry constant bit rate  peak of intermittent transmission We will also assume that the intermittent transmission file transfer will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new files are ready to be transferred Using the above model we created a Matlab based tool for synthesizing traffic for simulation purposes The traffic generated by this tool is output to a file in a format which can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 5 COMMAND TRAFFIC MODEL The model for the command will be similar in spirit to the model which we have proposed for telemetry We see the data transmitted for command to be formed by two different types of transmission One constant bit rate which represents calls to various preloaded spacecraft subroutines and an intermittent transmission similar to the on/off type of traffic used to model the voice activity in the audio/voice transmission section which represents subroutine uploads to the spacecraft We assume that there will be a maximum bandwidth which may be allocated to command and we also assume that the intermittent transmission subroutine upload will transmit at the maximal possible rate when new subroutines are ready to be transferred Using this model we have developed a Matlab based traffic synthesizing tool The traffic provided by this tool can be used by network simulation tools such as the SCaN simulator 6 CONCLUSIONS This work has resulted in the development of a suite of traffic models that captures the fundamental types that will be in the space communications environment and in particular These models provide the capability to investigate the new IP-based communications functions and resulting performance that are required by the human exploration missions of NASA's Constellation Program and the Space Communications and Navigation SCaN network's ability to support them Four prototypical traffic models have been developed from which any number of streams may be generated 1 audio/voice 2 real-time motion imager live video 3 telemetry including both regular periodic data as well as intermittent file downloads and 4 command including periodic data as well as intermittent subroutine uploads The voice traffic model stochastically parameterizes calls talk times and talk spurts Multiple audio analysis tools were developed to assist in the derivation of parameters from data samples taken from relevant space missions Using these tools parameters of probability distributions were fit to data taken from Shuttle/ISS archives 12     n 


The characterization of motion imagery video traffic involved the stochastic characterization of I P B-frames of MPEG-4 sequences Several Matlab tools were developed to support video analyses wherein ISS and Shuttle specific mission video sequences were used to derive parameters for the associated model A general stochastic model was derived for data telemetry enabling broad parametric applicability ranging among constant bit stream periodic or bursty patterns This same general model through proper selection of parameters may also be used to model command data flow traffic Matlab programs were developed to enable each of the traffic types above to be synthesized and saved into a file for use by SCaN simulation for performance analyses Example flows were generated for a LEO case and an Ascent case and results illustrated using the SCaN Simulator These analyses show the need for such traffic models to determine packet loss including speech intelligibility and latency arising from both statistical multiplexing and potential use of DiffServ prioritization techniques when peak offered loads may undergo transient overload conditions 7 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration REFERENCES 1 Esther Jennings and David Heckman Architecture Modeling and Performance Characterization of Space Communications and Navigation SCaN Network using MACHETE submitted to 2008 IEEE Aerospace Conference Proceedings March 1-8 2008 2 Michael Hammer and James Champy Reengineering the Corporation New York Harper Business 1993 3 G Edward Bryan Not All Programmers Are Created Equal 1994 IEEE Aerospace Applications Conference Proceedings February 5-12 1994 4 Voice Activity Detection Using Generalized Gamma Distribution in Advances in Artificial Intelligence part of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science Volume 3955 2006 5 Athina Markopoulou Fouad Tobagi and Mansour Karam Assessment of VoIP quality over Internet backbones In Proceedings of INFOCOM 2002 6 John Daigle and Joseph Langford Models for Analysis of Packet Voice Communications Systems IEEE JSAC SAC-4 6 1986 7 Harold Stem and Kim-Kwok Wong Modeling the on-off patterns in conversational speech including short silence gaps and the effects of interaction between speaking parties Vehicular Technology Conference 1994 8 0 Rose Statistical Properties of MPEG video traffic and their impact on traffic modeling in ATM systems Institute of Computer Science Report 101 University of Wurzburg 1995 BIOGRAPHY Tudor Stoenescu received a BS in Electrical Engineering  and an MS in Mathematics from North Dakota State University in 1999 and a MSE and PhD in  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from University of Michigan in 2001 and 2004 respectively After receiving his PhD Dr Stoenescu accepted a Postdoctoral Scholar position in Information Science and Technology at California Institute of Technology In 2006 Dr Stoenescu joined the Telecommunications Architecture Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory Dr Stoenescu's current research interests lie 13 


in the areas of resource allocation in networks mechanism design dynamic scheduling and decision processes stochastic control and optimization Loren Clare is the supervisor for the Communications Networks Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory He obtained the Ph.D in System Science from the University of California Los Angeles in 1983 His research interests include wireless communications protocols self-organizing systems network systems design modeling and analysis and distributed control systems Prior to joining JPL in May 2000 he was a senior research scientist at the Rockwell Science Center where he acquired extensive experience in distributed sensor networks satellite networking and communications protocols for realtime networks supporting industrial automation 14 


References 225 Krauss J D Antennas 2 nd Edition McGraw-Hili 1988 225 Yang G-Z Body Sensor Networks Springer 2005 225 Higgins H Implant Communication Made Real Body Sensor Networks Conference 2007 225 Sivard A et al Challenge of Designing In-body Communications Embedded System News 2004 225 Higgins H Human Body Implant Communication Making it Possible European Conference on Antennas and Propagation 2007 225 Hodgins D et al Healthy Aims Developing New Medical Implants and Diagnostic Equipment IEEE C5 Pervasive Computing January March 2008 225 Higgins H Implant Communications Out of the Lab and Into Patients lET Body-Centric Communication Conference London April 20 2009 225 Higgins H Body implant Communications Is It a Reality Antennas and Propagation for Body\255 Centric Wireless Communications lET/loP London April 24 2007 225 Higgins H Radio Frequency Technology and In-Body Communication Systems Implantable and Body Centric Conference Imperial College London 2005 225 Higgins H In-body Communications the Challenges and The Opportunities COST 2005 225 Rahmat-Samii Y and Kim J Implanted Antennas in Medical Wireless Communications Morgan  Claypool 2006 225 The Antenna Book 20th Edition American Radio Relay League ARRL 255 Main Street Newington CT,USA 225 Fujimoto K et al Small Antennas Research Studies Press 1967 225 Bancroft R Microstrip and Printed Antenna Design Noble Publishing 225 http://www.zarlink.com/zarlink/hs/82_ZL70101.htm 


Conclusions 225 Communication with very small implants is possible 225 The human body can both help and hinder communication 225 Power consumption is an issue for long term implants 225 The communication system antenna and implant should be designed together 225 There is no one size fits all solution 225 Transmission of data to and from an implant is practical and is being done and is making a difference to the lives of real patients 


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


