A Step Toward Foundation of Class Diagram Algebra for Enterprise Service Systems Hidekazu Enjo Motonari Tanabu and Junichi Iijima Abstract-An enterprise service system is large and com plex and manages big and complicated data A large set of partial data models are used during designing an information system for a large enterprise because each service application consisting of an enterprise service system uses only a part of big and 
com plicated data in most cases The skill of modelers makes fluctuation and discrepancy among data models It is necessary how to keep consistency among data models There are several diagram methods to support data modeling The Unified Modeling Language is a popular standard modeling language A class diagram is describing a static view of data model There are two kinds of inconsistency among data models described 
in class diagrams One is inconsistency within a data model described in a class diagram The other is inconsistency depending on operations for class diagrams We present syntax of a class diagram describing a data model for syntactical foundation for class diagram algebra Then we introduce syntactical merger remain complement and intersection operations on class diagrams Consolidation and restoration conditions keep consistency of class diagrams syntactically during results 
of those operations Index Terms-class diagram algebra data modeling Unified Modeling Language I INTRODUCTION A N enterprise service system is large and complex and manages big and complicated data It is very hard to handle big and complicated data For example it is difficult to describe a big and complicated data model of an enterprise service system into one diagram A large set of partial data models are used during designing an information system for a large enterprise because each service application consisting of an enterprise service system uses only a part of big and complicated data in most cases This situation raises a risk of embedding inconsistency caused by 
modelers mistakes because the skill of modelers makes fluctuation and discrepancy among data models And inconsistency within the set of partial data models decreases the quality of the data model Without dependency of modelers skill formal Manuscript received February 2 2009 Hidekazu Enjo is with NTT DATA CORPORTATION 3-3-9 Koto-ku Tokyo 135-8671 Japan phone 81-50-5546-2297 fax 81-30-3532-0488 e-mail enjouh@nttdata.cojp Motonari Tanabu is with Yokohama National University 79-4 Tokiwadai Hodogaya Yokohama 240-8501 Japan e-mail tanabu@ynu.acjp Junichi Iijima is with Tokyo Institute of Technology 2-12-1 Ookayama Meguro-ku Tokyo 152-8550 Japan e-mail iijimaj.aa@m.titech.acjp 978-1-4244-3662-0/09/$25.00 2512009 IEEE operations like merger and remain are preventing inconsistency 
for manipulating partial data models However it is unclear which operations for partial data models have well properties keeping consistency among data models There are several diagram methods to support data modeling The Unified Modeling Language UML is a popular standard modeling language especially for object oriented design A class diagram which is a type of UML diagrams is describing a static view of data model It is necessary to clear how to keep consistency among class diagrams There are two kinds of inconsistency among data models described in class diagrams One is inconsistency within a data model described in a class diagram like differences between attributes data types or multiplicities of same name classes  4 The other is inconsistency depending on operations like merger and remain for class diagrams Because a class diagram as result of an operation 
isn't always consistent even if there is consistency in each data model as augments of an operation In this paper we focus the latter situation and propose consistent operations toward class diagram algebra II MERGER AND REMAIN OF CLASS DIAGRAMS It is easy to merge two parts of class diagram like class diagram X Fig 1 and class diagram Y Fig 2 and the result is class diagram Universe Fig 3 because same classes are merged into one class in a result diagram and same associations are merged into one association of that A remain operation is one of the basic operations for dividing and analogized as difference of set But remain operation is a little different from difference of set If the class diagram Y is remained of class diagram Universe and class diagram X class diagram X includes class Order and class 
OrderDetails but the remain result as class diagram Y also includes Order and OrderDetails Because association PO in class diagram Y is relating those classes However there are several ways to divide a large class diagram like Universe into parts of class diagram like X and Y or X and Z Fig 4 because the result of merging two parts of class diagram as class diagram X and class diagram Z is as same as class diagram Universe If class diagram Universe is the whole class diagram class diagram Y is complement of class diagram X Because class diagram Y is remained of class diagram Universe and class diagram X Class diagram Y is complement of class diagram X and class diagram X is complement of class diagram Y It 456 


                                                                                                                                                   means that class diagram X is double complement of class diagram X However class diagram Y is also a complement of class diagram Z and class diagram X is a double complement of class diagram Z It means that class diagram Z isn't satisfied double complement law We need to know the condition for satisfying double complement law because this property is important for algebraic foundation Buyer PO Order Contact String 1 0 Date Date  Tel String[1..1 Order Details Goods String 1 Num Int[1  Contract Remarks String[O Deal BU C011act Smrg l  Tel String[l..l PO Order Date Dare 1 1 Clause String 1 Date Date 1 Order Fig 3 Example of Class Diagram Universe Fig 1 Example of Class Diagram X Fig 4 Example of Class Diagram Z III RELATED WORK There are several studies of mathematical foundation of class diagrams Following are studies related consistency analyses for one class diagram Berardi Calvanese and Giacomo presented the correspondence between class diagrams and Description Logics which enable us to utilize Description Logics based systems for reasoning on class diagrams Szlenk  presented the mathematical definition of class diagrams and studied the consistency within a single class diagram Kaneiwa and Satoh proposed optimized algorithms that compute respective consistencies for class diagrams based on first order predicate logic They discussed mathematical foundation of class diagram but didn't mention about algebraic structure Following studies are related algebra for class Calvanese Lenzerini and Nardi surveyed four type of knowledge representations description logic frame based system semantic data model object-oriented data model and propose unifying framework formalized object-oriented data model based on Boolean algebra and query based on set theory They discussed classes but didn't mention about class diagrams Sabetzadeh and Easterbrook studied the merging of class diagrams to gain a unified perspective However they focused how to merge inconsistent and incomplete class diagrams for requirement engineering and they hadn't been clear detail of algebraic structure for a merging operation IV NOTATION A set Name is a set of name of all elements consist of class diagram including a class name an association name an attribute name and a role name A set DataType is a set of data type where type of all data including integer and character represented by Int,Bool,Char,String,Date   A set Multiplicity is a set of multiplicity m,n that is a pair of lower bound m and upper bound n where o m n,m E No,n E N j 225 A set No is a set of integer grater than or equal to o A set N j is a set of integer grater than or equal to 1 Deal Seller Date Date 1 Contact String 1..1 Tel String[1..1 Date Date 1 Order Details Goods Num Int Remarks String[O Order Details Goods String[l  Num h1[1  Remarks Strirg[O  Buyer Contract Contract Contact String 1 Tel String[1..1 Fig 2 Example of Class Diagram Y Clause String 1 Clause String[l  Order Quote Seller Date Date[1  T Contact String 1..1 Tel String[1..1 Order Details Goods String 1 Num Int[1  Remarks String[O Deal Date Date 1 978-1-4244-3662-0/09/$25.00 2512009 IEEE 457 


                                  Order Buyer,\(Contact String,\(l  Tei String,\(l,l Fig 6 Example of an Association 0 1 r  Request  __ L Date l  I  I _I PO Details 1 r   I Party  j   Tel String[1..1  1..1   Fig 5 Example of a Class Contact String 1 Tel String[1..1 In order to reduce the complexity we consider eliminating some components as operation and generalization Because we discuss only behavior of data model rather than object model PO,\(\(Party l l Buyer Contact,String l  Tei String,\(l,l Request,\(O,l Order,\(Date Date,\(l,l Details,\(l  OrderDetails,\(Goods String.Il  Num Int,\(l,l v SYNTAX OF A CLASS DIAGRAM A class diagram is a type of UML and employed to model concepts in static views for an information structure of enterprise system consisting of classes and their interrelationships A class diagram has been represented by graphical and abstract syntax In this section we focus abstract syntax for simplifying discussions We define the abstract syntax of the class diagram as followed A Syntactical definition of a class A class c is a pair Name\(c ttrs\(c where Name\(c E Name is a name of the class c and Attrs\(c is a list of attributes in the class c An attribute list Attrs\(c is a finite list Attr\(c,l  Attr\(c,n of finite number n  An attribute Attrs\(c,i is a triple of Name\(c,i Type\(c,i c,i  where Name\(c,i E Name is a name of i th attribute and a member of a set Name  Type\(c,i E DataType is a type of t th attribute and a member of a set Data Type  Multi\(c,i E Multiplicity is a multiplicity of i th attribute and a member of a set Multiplicity A set Class is a set of all classes B Syntactical definition of an association An association a is a pair Name a a  where Nameta Name is a name of the association a and Assocs a is a list of associated classes in the association a An list Assocs a of associated classes is a finite list Assoc\(a,l  Assoc\(a,n of finite number n  An associated class Assoc\(a,i is a triple of Role\(a,i a,i a,i  where Role\(a,i E Name is a name of l th association Multi a,i E Multiplicity is a multiplicity of t th association A C a,i E Class is a related class of t th association A length of the list Assocs a must be at least 2 A set Association is a set of all associations c Syntactical definition of a class diagram A class diagram is a pair C,A  where C Class is a subset of Class and A Association is a subset of Association  A class diagram C,A suffers following conditions Condition 1 if names of two classes are same two classes are same VC i EC,VC j c j 1 Condition 2 if names of two associations are same two associations are same Va i E A Va j E As Nameta  Name\(a j a  a j 2 Condition 3 all associated classes of an association are included in the set of classes in the class diagram fa E A,\(r,m,ac E Assocsta ac E C 3 Buyer Party PO Request Order Contact 1..1 0..1 Date Date 1 Tel Details 1 Order Details Goods String[1 Num Fig 7 Example of a Class Diagram VI SYNTACTICAL OPERATIONS FOR CLASS DIAGRAMS A merger operation is defined in an analogous to union of set because same classes are merged into one class and same associations are merged into one association A remain operation is defined in an analogous to difference of set but has little difference because the result of a remain operation should satisfy conditions of class diagram Merger and remain operations are defined as followed A Syntactical definition of merger operation Given two class diagrams C x A x and C y A y   a syntactical merger operation V  C,A x C,A C,A is defined as CxuCy,AXuA y C x,A x  C y A y C x uC y Ax uA y 4 Not all results of a merger operation are satisfied conditions of class diagram Although we omit the proof because of space limitations following conditions are formed Proposition 1 The syntactical merger operation V is closed on class diagrams if and only if following consolidation condition is satisfied 978-1-4244-3662-0/09/$25.00 2512009 IEEE 458 


          Fig.8 Restoration Condition 978-1-4244-3662-0/09/$25.00 2512009 IEEE Consolidation condition Let C x Ax and C y A y be class diagrams If names of any classes in C x and C are same those classes are same If name of any associations in Ax and A y are same those associations are same VC x E C x 273 VC y E C Nametc c   Nametc c   C x  c y 5 Vax E Ax Va y E A y Name\(a x  Nameta c   ax  a y B Syntactical definition of remain operation Given two class diagrams Cx,A x and Cy,A y  a syntactical remain operation  C,A x C,A C,A is defined as C x  C y U C Ax lAy Ax  A y where C x C y CICECX,cflC y  Ax A y alaEAX,aflA y and CAx\\A y  ac I a E Ax  A y  r,m,ac E Assocstai C x Ax C A y C x  Cc  U CAXIAy Ax  A y 6 Although we omit the proof because of space limitations following proposition is formed Proposition 2 The syntactical remain operation  is closed on class diagrams C Syntactical definition of complement operation Given a class diagram X  C x Ax  a syntactical complement operation X  C,A C,A is defined as U X  Class,Association C xAx where U is Class.Associatim  X U X  Class Association C xAx  7 Although we omit the proof because of space limitations following lemma is formed Lemma 1 X  U X  C XC U C C Ax C  where Ax c C x  Class  C x  c ICE Class c fl C x  Ax C  Association  Ax  a I a E Association,a fl Ax and C C AxC  ac I Va E Ax V\(ri,mpac i E Assocstai 9 VII CONCLUSION We present syntax of a class diagram describing a data model All results of remain operation are satisfied conditions of class diagram However not all results of that are satisfied double complement law Although we omit the proof because of space limitations following preposition is formed Proposition 3 The double complement law X  X is satisfied if and only if following restoration condition is satisfied Restoration condition Let C x A x be a class diagram C x n C Association n C Ax C  242 where CAssociation  ac I a E Association,\(r,m,ac E Assocs\(a and C C Ax  c ICE Class,a E A x 273 r,m ac E Assocs\(a ac 7:c XI1.Y  XVy  U U X U lJ  C x nC y C\(AxnA y  AXnA y Ax nAy C  253c nCy CAssociation UCAXnAy nAy Proposition 4 Following equations are formed if and only if consolidation and restoration conditions are satisfied X y  Cx,Ax Cy,A y  C x Cy Ax A y 10 C C  C uCAyc,A y  X 11  Cx,Ax Cy,A y  Cy,Ay Cx,A x  lVX\(II We can construct variety class diagrams with use of merger intersection remain and complement operations Those operations have good properties for foundation of class diagram algebra where class diagrams are satisfied consolidation and restoration conditions It is safe to merge partial data models of applications describe in class diagrams with use of merger operation It is also safe to eliminate a part of class diagram with use of remain operation And it is easy to handle many partial data model during development of enterprise service systems D Syntactical definition of intersection operation Intersection operation is defined with use of merger and complement operations as followed For any two class diagrams C x A x and C y A y   a syntactical intersection operation C,A x C,A C,A is defined as C x Ax  C y A y C x Ax  C y A y   C x Ax  C y A y  8 Although we omit the proof because of space limitations following two lemmas and one proposition are formed Lemma 2 The syntactical intersection operation   is closed on class diagrams if and only if consolidation and restoration conditions are satisfied Lemma 3 Following equations are formed if and only if consolidation and restoration conditions are satisfied 459 Class C Association C x n CAssociatioll n CAs C  242 Association 


and introduce a part of foundation for class diagram algebra with merger remain complement and intersection operations on class diagrams Consolidation and restoration conditions keep consistency of class diagrams syntactically for results of those operations We propose a part of foundation for class diagram algebra but couldn't clear to generate any class diagrams as results of merger remain complement and intersection operations We couldn't clear semantic of those operations REFERENCES  UML 2.0 Superstructure Specification formal/05-07-04 2005 Object Management Group  D Berardi G Calvanese and G D Giacomo Reasoning on UML class diagrams Artificial Intelligence Vol 168 Issue 1 pp.70-118 2005  M Szlenk Formal Semantics and Reasoning about UML Class Diagram in Proceedings of the International Conference on Dependability of Computer Systems 2006 pp.51-59  K Kaneiwa and K Satoh Consistency Checking Algorithms for Restricted UML Class Diagrams in Proceedings of the Fourth International Symposium on Foundations of Information and Knowledge Systems FoIKS2006 2006  D Calvanese M Lenzerini and D Nardi Unifying Class-based Representation Formalisms Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research vol 11 pp.199-240 1999  D J Buehrer An Object Oriented Class Algebra in Proceedings of Seventh International Conference of Computing and Information ICCI'95 1995 pp.669-685  M Sabetzadeh S Easterbrook An Algebraic Framework for Merging Incomplete and Inconsistent Views in Proceedings of the 13th IEEE International Conference on Requirements Engineering 2005 Hidekazu Enjo was born in Japan on January 5 1959 He received the B Sc and M Sc degree in computer science in 1981 and 1983 respectively from Tokyo Institute of Technology He has been working forNTT DATA CORPORATION in Tokyo Japan His research interests include data modeling process modeling and XML Mr Enjo is a member of ACM a Member of Japan Society of Management Information a member of Information Processing Society of Japan a member of the Institute of Electronics Information and Communication Engineers and a member of Japan Society for Software Science and Technology Motonari Tanabu was born in Japan on December 15 1969 He studied at Tokyo Institute of Technology Tokyo Japan He received the B.Sc degree in mathematics in 1993 M.Sc and D.Eng degrees in systems science in 1995 and 1998 respectively from Tokyo Institute of Technology He was a Lecturer at Faculty of Business Administration Yokohama National University Yokohama Japan in 1998 He is currently an Associate Professor in MIS at International Graduate School of Social Sciences Yokohama National University His research interests include mathematical foundation of modeling and simulation data mining and business gaming simulation Dr Tanabu is a member of the Association for Information Systems a member of the International Simulation  Gaming Association a member of the Association for Business Simulation and Experiential Learning and a member of Japan Society of Management Information and Engineering a Vice Dean of the Graduate School of Decision Science and Technology Tokyo Institute of Technology Japan He is the author or co-author of many papers on systems theory and information systems including Common Structure and Properties of Filtering Systems PACIS2005 Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems 2005 Analytical framework for strategic all iances from the perspective of exchange of management resources  Int 1 Business Performance Management Vo1.6 No.1 88-105\(2004 and Dependence Structure Dependence as a binary relation International Journal of General Systems Vo1.29 No.5 655-670\(2000 He also wrote several books on Information Systems Systems Theory and Systems Integration His major interests are Information Systems Integration M-Business IT Value and Systems Theory Prof Iijima is the ex-president and currently the chair of the advisory board of JASMIN the Japan Society for Management Information which is one of the major societies related to Information Systems in Japan Iijima Junichi was born in Hokkaido Japan on August 28 1954.He has got Ph.D in systems theory from Tokyo Institute of Technology Tokyo Japan in 1983 He was an assistant professor of the Department of Systems Science associate professor of the Department Industrial Engineering and Management and currently he is a professor of the Department of Industrial Management 978-1-4244-3662-0/09/$25.00 2512009 IEEE 460 


In some situation the MEL allows deferring the required maintenance and the aircraft to fly with certain items inoperative GO items but it imposes some type of operational restrictions such as reduced speed altitude restriction or a restriction on the use of specific systems In these cases the aircraft may be operational with a certain type of failures but its operational capability is reduced which results in increased operating costs primarily due to increased flying distance or fuel consumption There are situations where the MEL allows the aircraft to fly with certain items inoperative but it requires the maintenance crew to do some preliminary action such as activation or deactivation of a system GO IF This takes time to implement and might affect the regularity of flight operation In some other case the aircraft might be operational with a certain type of failure present but as its operational capability is reduced it requires some operational restriction This might in turn result in additional operating costs mostly due to high fuel consumption or increased flight time See Figure 2 CheckELstatusl Yes I Figure 2 Unscheduled maintenance and MEL Minimum Equipment List consultation procedure maintenance engineers perform troubleshooting based on the pireps as mentioned above In some other cases that failures affect the flight requires the pilot to take some action with consultation of the FM FCOM QRH or making use of his/hers experience In these cases either some operational restriction may be necessary or continued aircraft operation is prohibited since the failure requires immediate maintenance Depending on the phase of flight during which the failure occurs the latter situation may require the pilot to perform return to gate aborted take-off in-flight turn-back or diversion to another airport than the planned one If the aircraft is in landing mode the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence in some situations the pilot may perform a touch-and-go 6 STUDY APPROACH A literature review was performed to find available methodologies and models that support the assessment of the cost of failures with operational consequences within the aviation industry However no systematic methodology or model for this purpose has been identified Fortunately there are systematic methodologies for reliability and risk management available as well as some studies of the cost of airborne and ground delays of passenger aircraft In order to illustrate the operational consequences of aircraft failure the Event Tree Analysis ETA was chosen as an appropriate methodology One major reason for this selection was that the supporting tool i.e the event tree can be applied in order to illustrate the combination of events leading to ultimate operational consequences Cause-Consequence Model of Failures The process of a failure begins with a set of basic events which are known as initiating events that perturb the system 20 If the initiating event cannot be managed at an early stage of occurrence it will lead to a number of so called undesired events See Figure 3 If the failure occurs while the aircraft is in flight the assessment of whether necessary crew procedure is deferrable or not requires a consultation of the Flight Manual FM Flight Crew Operating Manual FCOM Quick Reference Handbook QRH and the pilot's experience Ultimately two different scenarios may occur if the failure is recognized in relation to a flight i.e either the failure has an effect on the operating capability or not If the failure does not affect to the flight the pilot normally reports the failure by means of a pilot report pireps in the aircraft technical logbook When the aircraft arrives at the next airport the In RCM analysis the initiating events which are the initial cause of failure are known as failure modes and are defined as the specific physical condition or state that causes a particular functional failure Failure modes represent the primary focus of the RCM analysis 5 This might include human errors e.g over loading of equipment failures of a technical item e.g rupture of an 0-ring or maybe environmental impact e.g corrosion or unexpected high ambient temperature For RCM purpose undesired events are considered as failures RCM further defines failure as any identifiable deviation from the original condition that is unsatisfactory to the user 6 


As Figure 3 shows a failure is naturally the start of a possible undesired consequence In this context the term consequence is defined in a very broad sense including all events causing any type of loss The loss or unexpected consequence to be considered may include injury or loss of life air and noise pollution high repair cost loss of system or equipment delay or flight cancellation et cetera see Figure 3 RCM can be seen as a reliability and risk management methodology since it aims at reducing the rate at which failures occur and faults are present as well as reducing or mitigating possible consequences Furthermore RCM as well as other general approaches to reliability and risk management includes the identification of hazards the objects that could be harmed and also the current controls for reducing the frequency or consequence of unwanted events The most important part of risk analysis is risk identification Only those risks that have been identified can be managed in a systematic and conscious way However identification is not enough cf the discussion in 15 There is also a need for action using risk evaluation to take appropriate operation and maintenance decisions regarding risk reduction and control thus ensuring that the system stays in a safe state regarding both technical and organizational parts 16 In order to achieve above mentioned discussion RCM analysis seeks to identify maintenance tasks that will prevent the consequences that result when failure modes are allowed to occur 5 In this regard one important support to the RCM analysis is the Failure Mode  Effects Analysis FMEA methodology which aims at determining possible Undesired   Basic event events e.g failure mode e.g failure system states under the assumption of the presence of certain failures Other well-known inductive methodologies for risk identification are Preliminary Hazards Analysis PHA Hazard  Operability Studies HAZOP and Event Tree Analysis ETA The basic events are often identified and modeled by fault tree analysis If failure rate and other necessary data are available for the basic events the fault tree analysis will provide estimates of the frequency of occurrence of the various undesired events see Figure 3 17 The possible consequence chains starting from an undesired event are often identified and modeled by ETA see Figure 3 Depending on the type of failure the outcome of the ETA will be a set of possible consequences such as delay high repair cost or injury to the people or loss of life If necessary input data are available for the barriers and physical models the ETA will provide frequencies or probabilities of the various consequences Event Tree Analysis ETA ETA can be used for qualitative as well as quantitative reliability and risk analyses 18 19 20 ETA is widely used for facilities provided with engineering accident mitigating features in order to identify the sequences of events which lead to the occurrence of specified consequences following the occurrence of an initiating event It is appropriate to apply an ETA in case where the successful operation of a system depends on an approximately chronological but discrete operation of its subsystems e.g subsystems should work in a defined sequence for operational success 20 or when there are a Fault Tree Analysis FTA Event Tree Analysis ETA Figure 3 Cause-consequence model of failure adapted from 17 7 


number of safety functions or barriers affecting the outcomes of the initiating event 19 The event tree is a commonly used graphical tool supporting the ETA methodology The event tree is traditionally a horizontally built structure that starts on the left with what is known as initiating event The initiating event may describe a situation where a legitimate demand for the operation of a system occurs The development of the tree proceeds chronologically with the requirement on each subsystem being postulated The first subsystem requirement appears initially on top of the tree structure in the event tree headings 20 The event trees are usually developed in a binary format e.g the events are assumed to either occur or not occur or to be either a success or a failure 21 At a branch point the upper branch of an event usually shows the success of the event and the lower branch its failure Hence certain subsystems may not be necessary given the occurrence of some preceding events However there may also be cases where a spectrum of outcomes is possible in which situation the branching can proceed with more than two outcomes 20 The probabilities in an event tree are conditional probabilities i.e the probability of a subsequent event is not the probability obtained from tests under general conditions but the probability of the event under the conditions arising from the chain of preceding events 21 The outcome of each sequence of events or path is illustrated at the end of each sequence This outcome describes the final outcome of each sequence whether the overall system succeeds fails initially succeeds but fails at a later time or something else The logical representation of each sequence of the event tree can also be shown in the form of a Boolean expression The logical representation of each event tree heading and ultimately each event tree sequence is obtained and then reduced through the use of Boolean algebra rules If an expression explaining all failed states is desired the sum of the reduced Boolean expressions for each sequence that leads to failure should be obtained and reduced However if the branching of the event tree has more than two outcomes the qualitative representation of the branches in the Boolean sense is not possible The quantitative evaluation of event trees is straightforward and similar to the quantitative evaluation of fault trees 20 7 PROPOSED EVENT TREE ANALYSIS ETA Depending on the situation in which a failure occurs the integration of the following criteria drives the ultimate state of the operational situation and the deviation from its normal state that leads to the possible operational consequences o the possibility of detection of loss of functions by operating crew in terms of evident or hidden failure and its detectability during normal operation of aircraft o the nature of the failure in terms of adverse affect on operating capability o the possibility to dispatch an aircraft with an item inoperative o the possibility to continue a flight with an inoperative item o the phase of the flight in which the failure occurs and o the pilot's decision In fact the combination of these criteria determines the extent to which operational action is required to keep the aircraft in operation or if needed to be restored to its normal operating state immediately This may include immediate maintenance action prior to dispatch or it might be necessary to consider operational restrictions such as reduced flight altitude It may also be necessary to follow emergency or abnormal procedures such as aborted take-off in flight turn-back diversion or touch-and-go when aircraft is airborne Based on the above discussions two different types of criteria have been identified that are displayed in the proposed event tree the operational phase where failure occurs and the effect of failure on operating capability The first criterion includes the five different states that indicate the operational phase where the failure occurs i.e prior to dispatch take-off climb cruise and approach and landing In each state two different events may occur either the failure occurs or not A Yes means that the failure occurs during the operational phase while No means that the failure does not occur during the specific operational phase See Figure 4 The second criterion includes three different states which indicate the extent to which the failure affects the operating capability of the aircraft The first state indicates the situation where the failure requires some immediate action to be taken e.g performing corrective maintenance or to follow some specified operational procedures Hence Yes means that the failure does not have any immediate effect on the operating capability i.e required corrective maintenance could be deferred However No means that an immediate action is required i.e the required corrective maintenance or operational procedure is not deferrable 8 


i YesYso No I-YYess Nox NoI YesNo-NoYes Yes No.2 i No-Yes-Yes-Yes a v NoAirborne delay No operational impatW Aborted take off  Ground delay at departure Airborne delay Ground delay at arrival Yes.Yes No No o per8ti onal i mp a Diversion Airborne delay  Ground delay a Yes-Yes N aNo*No-NoFigure 4 Proposed event tree for assessing the possible operational consequence scenarios caused by aircraft system failure 9 Yes-YesNo-Yes5 6 7 8 9 No*Yes16 17 18 19 20 21 Yes No-No9 1 I Yes I1 at arrival Airborne delay No operational imnp a N No8 Yes.Yee NoYes Yes=L  I  No I I No a Ye  I No at arrival Ground delay 


The second state describes the need to impose any operational restrictions which are mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Hence No means no operational restrictions while a Yes means that some operational restrictions are necessary Finally the third state describes whether some emergency or abnormal operation is applied which is mandated by procedures or by pilot decision Here Yes means that emergency or abnormal operation must be applied while No means that an emergency or abnormal procedure is not necessary Both criteria are related to the failure and function characteristics which are given as input to the ETA One presumption is that only failure effects with possible operational or economic consequences according to MSG-3 should be included in the analysis The failure characteristics also include the rate of occurrence which will affect the outcome of the analysis The characteristics of the failure will also advice whether the occurrence of failure will be recognized by the crew or not As standard design practice if the failure has any operational consequences it should be evident to the crew The combination of different events Yes or No within the states of the two criteria operational phase and operating capability will create different scenarios that in turn will determine the ultimate operational consequences Based on the possible combination of events 25 different scenarios were identified which will lead to the following classification of consequences no operational consequence airborne and/or ground delays and emergency or abnormal operation Out of the 25 different scenarios that were identified there are six scenarios with no operational consequences One of these scenarios is when the failure never occurs i.e scenario 25 The other five scenarios where no operational consequences occur are where the failure's associated maintenance is deferrable and there are no necessary operational or abnormal restrictions i.e scenarios 2 6 11 16 and 21 Hence the only difference between these five scenarios is the operational phase where the failure occurs There are 14 event scenarios where the consequences are some sort of delay i.e scenarios 1 3 4 5 8 9 10 13 14 15 18 19 20 and 24 Out of these there are five scenarios where the operational consequences are manifested as only airborne delay i.e scenarios 1 5 10 15 and 20 These scenarios are related to the occurrence of a failure that is related to deferrable items but that requires some operational restrictions Abnormal procedures contribute to operational consequences in scenarios 7 12 17 and 22 All these scenarios are related to failures with non-deferrable items that have some sort of operational restrictions and necessitates emergency and abnormal procedures by the flight crew The main difference between the scenarios is the phase of flight where the failure occurs In scenarios 7 and 12 the failure occurs prior to dispatch or during takeoff respectively The two scenarios 17 failure occurs during cruise and 22 failure occurs during approach and landing result in diversion Also there are situations such as scenario 23 in which the aircraft is in landing mode and the occurrence of a sudden failure in some systems may reduce the capability of the aircraft to complete the landing mission Hence the pilot may perform a touch and go 8 ILLUSTRATION OF THE PROPOSED ETA In order to illustrate the proposed ETA and to demonstrate the application of the constructed event tree an Avionic Ventilation System AVS of a hypothetical twin-engine single aisle aircraft has been selected The associated data were gathered from particular airlines and then altered for confidentiality reasons to represent typical scenarios Avionic Ventilation System A VS The AVS is used to cool different avionics equipment AVS comprises different components such as computer blower extract fan sensors filter and valves One of the most important functions of the AVS computer is to control the AVS system's valves to open and close and fans to turn on or off The skin air inlet valve is installed in the fuselage skin to provide an outdoor air supply gateway for AVS on the ground see Figure 5 Figure 5 on the ground the valve is 10 _10 Fan Skin air inlet valve schematic diagram This valve is electrically operated but i Filter Air flow Valve can be manually overridden When the aircraft is 


fully open and in flight the valve is fully closed One of the functional failures which might occur with an AVS system could be defined as Skin Air Inlet Valve fails to close at take-off power setting Taking off with the Skin Air Inlet valve open instead of closed damages the avionics ventilation ducts and may have potential effects on both cabin pressurization and degradation of avionics ventilation performance If the valve is not function properly at take-off power setting prior to take-off a warning message appears on the cockpit display unit so that cockpit crew will be aware of the fault prior to take-off Therefore the conditional probability of detection of failure prior to take-off is 100 see Figure 6 This failure has no catastrophic or safety effect on the aircraft and its occupants However in order to avoid associated effect on cabin pressurization issues and to protect damage to the system the MEL advises that the valve should be closed manually on the ground and the related electrical connection should be isolated This is an immediate action which is required to fly with an inoperative Skin Air Inlet Valve within a certain limited time without any operational restrictions see Figure 6 Therefore the aircraft has to be returned to the ramp/gate so that the maintenance crew can perform these actions before further dispatch Hence this failure is classified as an evident failure with operational effect Based on the proposed ETA the only possible scenario is number 4 which results in the operational consequence Ground delay at departure see Figure 6 In order to quantify the rate at which operational consequences occur the frequency of failure failure rate or intensity should be multiplied by both the conditional probability of occurrence of this failure in different operational phases states 1.1 to 1.5 and the conditional probability of adverse affect of the failure on the operation capability states 2.1 to 2.3 This may be expressed as in Equation 1 The failure rate of Skin air inlet valve fails to close at take-N 1 2 3 4 S inariret vaKefailstD dcs 1 2 1 iec.lity  eah phaseofflight 1.4 Cuse 15 lArcax h  Ii adrg 2 Efedof failueon opering apability 2.1 Ddab 22 23 1 p e U6rng aFerabcn abromni restricicrn prcecdre Ria ID Takedfl 0imb takeoff Yeslow_ 260\260\260 Oocunof failure during 0 ca 0 a 0 Oper.iornl Cancieia m Ar1xmeclde I Nbcperaicnnipat I A rbcrnecblay Grardcalja 4 daeLre I G I_dddajdt"I I Figure 6 Proposed ETA of the hypothetical AVS system K Annual cost of scenario per aircraft Aircraft/year Rate of occurrence of each operational consequence scenario K Rate of occurrencj of scenario per FH Failure rate X Unit cost of ground delay al departure per FH x Conditional probability of states in criteria 1 x Conditional probability of states in criteria 2 t Duration Average annua2 X of delay X utilization X J 0 J 0 FH/yearJ 2 Quantity Per Aircraft QPA 2 11 11 1.2 1.3 


off power setting is 1 12e-5 per Flight Hour FH based on historical data The conditional probability of states in criteria 1 prior to take-off is estimated to 100 as the failure will be evident to the crew prior to take-off The conditional probability of states in criteria 2 nondeferrable with no operational restriction is estimated to 100 as the failure is not deferrable and it does not impose any operational restrictions as the aircraft is not allowed to take-off with the failure present according to the MEL Hence the rate of occurrence of scenario number 4 for AVS is 1.12e 5 per FH X 100 X I100  1.12e 5 per FH The outcome of the ETA on the hypothetical AVS system and the applicable values for each probability which has been gathered from historical data and expert opinions is shown in Figure 6 In order to estimate the cost of associated consequences standard average cost can be used for different operational consequences which normally are provided by the manufacturer or airlines For this specific case i.e scenario number 4 the assumptions made are displayed in Table 1 as advised by experienced practitioners Table 1 Cost Figures of some Type of Operational Consequences Consequences Magnitude Cost Long more than 30 min 70 min Ground delay Short less than 30 min 30 min Long more than 30 min 58 min Airborne delay Short less than 30 min 28 min The annual total cost for each consequence scenario for whole aircraft could be estimated in accordance with Equation 2 Hence the annual cost of scenario number 4 considering 3,000 FH of utilization per year is estimated to 1.12e per FH x 60 min/60 lhr delay time x 70 min x 60 min  420 hr x 3,000 FH year x QPA 1 The proposed methodology could also be adapted as a support for cost-effectiveness analysis of candidate maintenance tasks during the development of aircraft maintenance programs However the analysis documentation also constitutes an important part of the knowledge base which is also useful for design operation and maintenance of the aircraft In order to implement the proposed methodology and achieve valuable results accurate and sufficient data and information are needed as input data for the analysis This information is related to the technical system and its reliability e.g failure modes and their frequency of occurrence and maintainability performances e.g Built-in Test Equipment modularization and Line Replaceable Units Other information that is needed is related to aircraft operation and associated procedures given in formal documents such as the MEL FM FCOM and QRH Also information about the maintenance support performance is necessary The operational consequences and the probabilities of different events included in the proposed event tree can be quantified by the aid of historical data or expert judgments However an exact quantification and assessment of the cost of operational consequences of failures is a challenge due to a long list of influencing factors and inadequacy of required information One example is the challenge to determine a good estimation of the failure rate which requires the collection of data from the world fleet This collection of data is difficult since removal data do not necessarily imply a failure or since subsequent test level has difficulties to duplicate test results achieved at preceding test levels i.e no fault found events Another reason is that even if there is a failure it is not always possible to link the reported failure to the functional failure or failure mode identified in the MSG-3 analysis When there is a lack of historical data expert judgments can be a good source of information To support an effective extraction of the field experts knowledge there are systematic methodologies available e.g pair wise comparison 14.14 aircraft/year 9 DISCUSSION The scenario descriptions using the event trees give a detailed picture of the possible operational consequences of different failures in aircraft system during operation Hence the proposed methodology is considered as a valuable support in the assessment of the operational consequences of failures 12 


REFERENCES 1 IEC Electropedia International Electrotechnical Vocabulary IEV Chapter 191 Dependability and Quality of Service Web site http://www.electropedia.org 2 Anthony M Smith and Glenn R Hinchcliffe Reliability Centered Maintenance Oxford Elsevier 2004 3 Albert H.C Tsang Condition-Based Maintenance tools and Decision-Making Journal of Quality in Maintenance Engineering 1\(3 3-17 1995 4 Balbir S Dhilion Maintainability Maintenance and Reliability for Engineers New York Taylor  Francis 2006 5 NAVAIR NAVAIR 00-25-403 Guidelines for the Naval Aviation Reliability-Centered Maintenance Process Patuxent River Naval Air Systems Command 2005 6 DoD MIL-STD-2173\(AS Reliability-Centered Maintenance Requirements for Naval Aircraft Weapons Systems and Support Equipment Washington DC Department of Defense 1986 7 Transport Canada TP 13850 Scheduled Maintenance Instruction Development Process Manual Ottawa Transport Canada 2003 8 John Moubray Reliability-Centered Oxford Butterworth-Heinemann 1997 Maintenance 9 F Stanly Nowlan and Howard F Heap ReliabilityCentered Maintenance Springfield National Technical Information Service 1978 10 William G Sulivan Elin M Wicks and James T Luxhoj Engineering Economy New Jersey Pearson Education 2006 11 Raimond R Hoch A Practical Application of Reliability Centered Maintenance 1990 Joint ASME/IEEE Power Generation Conference Proceedings October 21-25 1990 12 Marvin Rausand and Arnljot H0yland System Reliability Theory Model Statistical Method and Application New Jersey John Wiley 2004 13 IEC IEC 60300-3-11 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 11 Reliability Centred Maintenance Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1999 14 Marc Sachon and M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Delay and Safety in Airline Maintenance Reliability Engineering and System Safety 67\(3 301-309 March 2000 15 Ove Nja and Thor Erik N0kland Risk Analysis A Tool to Support Decision Making But Who Cares About the Decisions European Safety and Reliability Conference Proceedings June 27-30 2005 16 Per Anders Akersten Condition Monitoring and Risk and Reliability Analysis 2006 Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management Conference Proceedings June 12-15 2006 17 Marvin Rausand and J0m Vatn Reliability Centered Maintenance  Risk and Reliability in Marine Technology conference Rotterdam Balkeman 1998 18 M Elisabeth Pate-Cornell Fault Trees vs Event Trees in Reliability Analysis Risk Analysis 4\(3 177-186 September 1984 19 CCPS Guidelines for Hazard Evaluation Procedures with Worked Examples New York Center for Chemical Process Safety 1992 20 Mohammad Modarres What Every Engineer Should Know about Reliability and Risk Analysis New York Marcel Dekker 1993 21 IEC IEC 60300-3-9 Dependability Management Part 3 Application Guide Section 9 Risk Analysis of Technological Systems Geneva International Electrotechnical Commission 1995 BIOGRAPHIES Alireza Ahmadi has more than 10 years experience as an aircraft licenced engineer and manager of maintenance planning and control department He is currently a PhD candidate at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology Sweden His research topic is related to the cost-effectiveness of aircraft scheduled maintenance tasks Peter Soderholm is a senior lecturer at the Division of Operation and Maintenance Engineering Lulea University of Technology His research topics are risk dependability and eMaintenance mainly within aviation He received his MSc degree in Mechanical Engineering in 2001 and PhD in 13 


Operation and Maintenance Engineering in 2005 both from Lulea University of Technology Lulea Sweden ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The authors would like to thank Mr Christian Delmas Director of Maintenance Program Engineering Airbus S.A.S who gave us the opportunity to start this collaboration and Mr Jeremie Neveux and Mr Raphael Laforgue who identified the need to investigate this subject and for their time and useful comments given on drafts of this paper The authors also would like to thank Professor Uday Kumar Lule'a University of Technology for his valuable discussion and guidance 14 


  15 R EFERENCES    http://www.w3.org/XML/Schema   eb Orchestration with BPEL\224 http://www.idealliance.org/pa pers/dx_xml03 papers/0406-01/04-06-01.html  Hi bernat e hom e page www.hibernate.org   Al l a rd, Dan and Hut c herson, Joe, \223C om m uni cat i ons Across Complex Space Networks\224, IEEE Aerospace Conference, March 1-8, 2008  W e b Servi ce Defi ni t i on Language http://www.w3.org/TR/wsdl   B a uer, C h ri st i a n and Ki ng Javi n Java Persi s t e nce for Hibernate, New York: Manning Publications, 2007 7] \223Software Agents An Overview\224 http://www.sce.carleton.ca/netm anage/docs/AgentsOverview ao.html  e thodology.org  http://www.riaspot.com artic les/entry/What-is-Ajax  http://www.json.org 11 h ttp to m cat.ap ach e.o r g   12] http://java.sun com/products/servlet  http://www.w3.org/Sty le/CSS    B IOGRAPHY  Dan Allard has worked as a software engineer at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for the past 17 years.   He currently leads the development of core JPL accountability systems applications and infrastructure Other recent work includes the development of a message-based ground data system for the Mars Science Laboratory as well as research and development of ontologybased distributed communications     Dr. Charles D \(Chad\ards, Jr received his A.B degree in Physics from Princeton University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Physics from the Calif ornia Institute of Technology in 1984.  Since then he has worked at NASA\222s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he currently serves as Manager of the Mars Network Office and as Chief Telecommunications Engineer for the Mars Exploration Program, leading the development of a dedicated orbiting infrastructure at Mars providing essential telecommunications and navi gation capabilities in support of Mars exploration.  Prior to that he managed the Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology Office, overseeing a broad program of research and technology development in support of NASA\222s unique capabilities in deep space communications and mission operations.  Earlier in his career, Dr. Edwards worked in the Tracking Systems and Applications section at JPL where he carried out research on novel new radio tracking techniques in support of deep space navigation, planetary science, and radio astronomy  


  16  


Thank you Questions 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobs, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathmatiques Appliques de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


