Architecture Development for Efficient Sensor Tag Management  Md. Kafil Uddin Dept. of Computer Engineering Pusan National University Pusan, Republic of Korea mdkafil@pusan.ac.kr  Gihong Kim Dept. of Computer Engineering Pusan National University Pusan, Republic of Korea buglist@pusan.ac.kr  Bonghee Hong Dept. of Computer Engineering Pusan National University Pusan, Republic of Korea bhhong@pusan.ac.kr   Abstract The possible integration of sensing information with RFID data can be accomplished by using Sensor tag instead of using RFID tag only. Although EPCglobal provides standard architecture framework for processing RFID information, the diverse RFID applications and services necessitate collection and manipulation of integrated RFID-sensing information at the same system. Systems deploying Sensor tag can achieve both ID data and sensing data simultaneously. However, it is a big system challenge to monitor sensing data and manage sensor tags using existing standards. Moreover, efficient control and management of Sensor tag moods and states is also an issue in saving tag battery power and storing necessary sensing information in sensor tag memory. To fulfill all application requirements and manipulation of RFID-sensing data require efficient management of Sensor tag. In this paper we propose a new system architecture for efficient Sensor tag management based on EPCglobal framework Keywords-Active Sensor tag;Active RFID;RFID-sensing data I  I NTRODUCTION  The evolution of sensor technology and Radio Frequency Identification \(RFID\ research makes possible integration 1,2 o f RFI D da t a a n d S e ns i ng d a t a usi ng s a m e RF t a g called Sensor Tag [3,4 S e nsor t a gs ar e i n g e ne ra l   characterized by RF identification, user memory and sensing information. RF capable sensor tags having user memory store sensing data to its memory and can transfer that data to the reader when it is in reader interrogation area. While comparing EPCglobal [5 clas s  s t ru ctu r es 6   act iv e  tag s  enable a greater communication range, can be applied to metal objects, and allow easy addition of sensing modules 7,8   Th e r ef or e a c tiv e R F ID tag  can  be u s e d  as s e n o r t a g  9  e n a b l i ng si m u l t a ne o u s i d  a n d s e nsi ng da t a t r a n sm i ssi o n  using same RF infrastructure. A large number of such tags can be deployed in cold chain management [10 supp l y  chain management systems and harbor logistics systems where huge amount of sensing data is generated Consequently, sensor tag is suitable for continuously monitoring temperature-sensitive perishables, controlling product temperature and humidity, elimination of container damage due to huge inside pressure, and automatic tracking of product location. Thus, it is possible to create a physically linked world in which every item is numbered, identified cataloged and tracked with various sensing information However, to provide proper system services using sensor tags, it is necessary to control and efficiently manage tags carrying id and sensing information   Although Sensor Tag is used to acquire integrated RFIDSensing information, the technology used in its management and control is still in its infancy. Still there is no global standard provided for RFID-Sensing data collections. In most RFID applications, heterogeneous tags such as RFID tag \(only id data\ and active sensor tag \(RFID-sensing data from various vendors are used and RFID reader must be able to retrieve data from these heterogeneous tags. Therefore compatibility and interoperability become a major system concern in using Sensor Tag. Also, sensor tag must continuously store sensing information in its tag memory But limited memory and battery power is big challenge in system deployment. Moreover, system suffers from bulk air load while transmission of sensing data in tag memory takes place. However, faster tag collection is possible using active RFID System [12 st ill co n t ro llin g sen s o r tag m o o d s an d  states is important for saving tag battery power and sensing values in tag memory We develop an efficient Sensor Tag Management SenTM\ architecture based on EPCglobal Architecture Framework [13  Ou r s t a t eof t h e a r t s y s t em arch it ectu r e follows standard active air interface ISO/IEC 18000 t o  manage and control sensor tag, tag moods and states to store battery power with sensing information. SenTM provides several APIs for receiving sensing queries, managing tags and readers, monitoring sensing values, reporting alarms and notifications to the users. SenTM also provides four service types that together form core service module for an efficient sensor tag management  In this paper, we focus on the development of efficient Sensor tag management architecture using existing standards. We analyze all the necessary standards and background technologies involved with active RFID systems, existing management architectures and related application scenarios to extract all the system requirements The main contribution of this paper is to design efficient management architecture for sensor tag that incorporates all the management requirements to provide compatibility and global interoperability of the system The structure of this paper is as follows. Section 2 describes lists of related works. Section 3 analyzes sensor tag application scenarios and active air interface standards to extract system design requirements of SenTM with some unique services. In section 4, requirements are used as brick 
2009 Third International Conference on Sensor Technologies and Applications 978-0-7695-3669-9/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/SENSORCOMM.2009.103 630 


features to build the proposed system to its fundamental to final architecture. We conclude Section 5 with avenues for further research   II  R ELATED W ORKS  A  EPCglobal Architecture Framework The Architecture Framework [13  pu b lis h e d by  EPCglobal Inc. [5 o v ide s a co m p r e he ns i v e o v er vie w  o f  the EPCglobal standards. It shows how the different interface standards are related and outlines the principles that have guided the design of the standards. The architecture framework consists of three layers: \(1\ Identification layer 2\Capture layer and \(3\ Exchange layer; and it provides several standards for all the three layers. The EPCglobal Architecture Framework does not dictate a particular system architecture, but leaves this to implementors who can choose the system architectures that are most appropriate for their deployments. Therefore, the architecture presented in this paper is based on EPCglobal Architecture Framework because it helps easy adaptation of the system over the world The interaction between RFID reader and various types of tags takes place at the bottom layer of EPCglobal Architecture Framework shown in Fig. 1. The interoperability problem that arises in reading heterogeneous RFID tag \(tag id\nd active Sensor tag \(tag id and sensing data\ can be resolved by using readers compliant with international standards, controlling and managing readers using standard management protocol. ISO/IEC 18000-7 defines standard for active RFID systems and EPCglobal provide standard Reader Management \(RM\ Protocol to control and manage the reader     Figure 1. EPCglobal Architecture Framework B  EPCglobal Reader Management \(RM Host can control and manage RFID reader device by implementing RM Protocol c i f i e d b y EP Cgl o b a l   The standard provides 3 message channels between reader and host to manage the reader device. Fig. 2 shows the 3 channels: \(1\ Command Channel, \(2\ Alarm Channel\(s\ and 3\ Notification Channel\(s\. Command channel carries request from host to reader and response from reader to host Alarm Channel\(s\rries asynchronous reader health and status alerts to the host. Notification channel\(s\ delivers tag id and tag memory data such as sensing information to the host using standard reader protocol \(RP\ [1        Reader Device Application  Alarm Commands Notification      Reader Device Application Application   Alarm Commands Notification Alarm Commands Notification            Figure 2  EPCglobal Reader Management \(RM\ Architecture  C  Active Tag Memory Accessing Mechanism Active RFID Reader uses Active Air Interface to access tag memory of an active tag. There are two ways to access the tag memory: \(1\implementing reader commands following ISO/IEC 15961 [17  a n d 15 962 1 8 2  implementing RF-interface commands based on ISO/IEC 18000-7.  Fig. 3 depicts the basic components of active reader and how it accesses active tag memory data by using active air interface. Command/Response Unit of an active reader receives the request from host and converts the request to ISO/IEC 18000-7 air interface commands. Finally reader uses tag driver to access the data stored in the tag memory Active Reader Active Tag System Data Tag ID Memory Data Convert to ISO/IEC 18000-7 Commands Tag Driver Command Response Unit 1 2 3 4 5 6 Request Response ISO/IEC 18000-7 Store data in Tag memory Receive Request and Send Response Air Interface Active Reader Active Tag System Data Tag ID Memory Data Convert to ISO/IEC 18000-7 Commands Tag Driver Command Response Unit 1 2 3 4 5 6 Request Response ISO/IEC 18000-7 Store data in Tag memory Receive Request and Send Response Air Interface  Figure 3. Active Reader and Active Tag Communication III  S EN TM  R EQUIREMENTS  A  Cold Chain Application Analysis Cold Chain Management \(CCM\ System is the biggest application domain for sensor tag deployment. Fig. 4 shows an example where sensor tag is attached to item at processing 
631 


plant and tag logs the sensing value of the item until to Store Delivery. Table1 shows the product temperature history from processing plant to store delivery. From the table we find product temperature exceeds threshold limit when it is at the Transport DC     Figure 4. Product flow in CCM Application TABLE I  T EMPERATURE RECORD IN CCM APPLICATION  Although it is necessary to send an instant alarm/notification when product temperature exceeds threshold limit, lack of proper management and system services causes loss in product quality as well as tag battery power. Moreover when battery becomes low, there occurs a significant malfunction in sensing values because sensor requires continuous battery power to store sensing values in tag memory. Therefore, immediate measures should be taken when tag battery falls down B  Enhanced Active Air Interface ISO/IEC 18000-7 defines a list of commands active reader to active tag communication. Those commands could be divided into 5 broad categories such as Information command, Memory command, Security command Collection command and Mood command. To operate active tag as sensor tag, management system requires extended air interface commands such as Logging ON/OFF, Sensing ON/OFF, Set Threshold, Set Alarm condition, Clear Sensing Memory, Reboot etc C  Required Services and APIs An efficient tag management system should provide various services for configuring tag, controlling its moods and states, managing device and data, handling events and processing queries, report generation and data storage Table2 shows the required service types and their description. An efficient management must also provide API for those services TABLE II  S EN TM APPLICATION SERVICES  Types of Services Description Tag Command  and Control Services TCCS Provides service for tag configuration, tag mood and state control Device and Data Management Services DDMS Provide services for active reader and tag device management with tag data services Event and Query Processing Services EQPS Listens to the events, handles events happened and process registered queries Data Storage and Output Services DSOS Stores sensing data in data base generate reports and sends to the users  IV  S EN TM  A RCHITECTURE D EVELOPMENT  A  Fundamental Architecture SenTM architecture development is based on the EPCglobal Architecture Framework. EPCglobal Architecture Framework Active RFID tag integrated with sensing module is considered as active sensor tag require active air interface to communicate with active reader for sensing data transmission. Therefore, EPCglobal Architecture Framework requires minor modification to represent SenTM application, which is shown in Fig. 5  Active Air Protocol    A ct ive Reader Sensor Tag  Manager \(STM Active Sensor Tag Management Active Sensor tag S  Figure 5. Modification of EPCglobal Framework for SenTM application Here we propose the modification of active tag memory to serve as active sensor tag. The tag memory is divided into several blocks to store tag configuration, tag status bits and sensing values. At initial stage, tag is configured with its TagID, threshold value, sleep time etc. Tag status bit is used to set bit value tag memory is full or battery level becomes low. Status bit is important get the tag status especially when tag arrives long after it is out of the reader zone. As tags move frequently in and out of the reader interrogation area, SenTM application can check status of the tag by checking only its status bits. To configure tag or to retrieve sensing values, SenTM uses active tag memory access mechanism of active RFID reader. SenTM requests are first sent to the reader that co nverts the request to ISO/IEC 18000-7 air interface commands. Reader then retrieve tag memory data and respond to SenTM application. Fig. 6  shows the fundamental SenTM Components and communication mechanism between SenTM application and active sensor tag using active RFID reader Location  Time  Temp 0 C  Remark Processing Plant 01:00 1 0 C Below Threshold Transport to DC 03:00 1 0 C Exceed Threshold  Storage/Pick/Loading 05:00 1 0 C Below Threshold Store Delivery 08:00 1 0 C BatteryLow No Sensing  Sale at Store 11:00 1 0 C BatteryLow No Sensing  1 1 0 C 1 0 C Processing plant Transport DC 2 1 0 C 1 0 C 3 1 0 C 1 0 C Storage/Pick/Loading 4 1 0 C 1 0 C Store Delivery 5 1 0 C 1 0 C Sale at Store 
632 


 Active Reader Command Response Unit Convert to ISO/IEC 18000-7 Commands Tag Driver 1 2 3 4 5 6 Application Tag Management TM Services ISO/IEC 18000-7 Active Tag Memory Stores Sensing Values Active Reader Processes Request and Response from Sensor Tag Manager Active Air Interface TCCS DDMS DSOS EQPS Request Response Active Sensor Tag System Data Tag ID Memory Data Sensing values Configuration Tag Status bits Active Sensor Tag Management Application  Figure 6. Fundamental SenTM Components B  SenTM Core Object Model-CCNA C ommand C ontrol N otification and A larm \(CCNA together forms the SenTM core object model. There are three objects that form SenTM Command: \(1 DeviceSetting, \(2\larmSetting and \(3\sing Query DeviceSetting object sets and configures the device where as AlarmSetting and SensingQuery object is related with SenTM Reports object. SenTM administrative user uses the SenTM Control object to control the tag moods and states The detailed description of the CCNA objects is given in Following Table3 TABLE III  S EN TM CORE OBJECTS SenTM Commands Description Device Setting Configure tag such as sets TagID sensor sampling time sampling duration, sleep time etc Alarm Setting Sets Alarm Conditions such as Threshold, Battery Limit etc Sensing Query Sends user Query to requesting Sensing value or tag status SenTM Controls Description Tag State Control tag state such as sleep to wake up, active to inactive etc Tag Mood Control tag mood such as Logging mood ON/OFF, Sensing mood ON/OFF etc Tag Alarm Create and delete tag alarm SenTM Reports Description Data Report Sends data report in response to user query Alarm Notification Sends asynchronous alarm notification to the user  The high level relationship between CCNA objects and Sensor Tag Management object illustrated in Fig. 7. The gray color components describe CCNA objects and the white color components represent the objects related to each CCNA object. SenTM Reports are sent to the user in two ways: \(1\ynchronous data report and \(2\synchronous notification. SensorDataReport object provide Synchronous data report while AlarmNotification object provide Asynchronous notification to the user when any alarm event occurs                 Figure 7. SenTM core object Model C  SenTM Control Flow As shown in the CCNA object model in Fig. 7, the SenTM control object controls the sensor tag states, moods and the alarms. During sensor tag life cycle, a tag has several states and moods while it generates alarm if any unexpected tag condition occurs. Table4 provides the detailed description of tag moods, states and alarm types in a sensor tag life cycle. It is important to control and manage these objects in order to extend tag battery life as well as to provide reliable system services TABLE IV  S ENSOR T AG C ONTROL O BJECTS Tag Mood Description Sensing ON/OFF Tag starts to sense when Sensing is ON but does not store sensing values in its tag memory  Logging ON/OFF Tag starts to log/store sensing values in its tag memory when Logging is ON Beep , Flash bit ON/OFF Beep or Flash bit becomes ON when any alarm condition occurs if tag is out of reader zone Tag States Description Active/Inactive If tag is active it is ready to sense and RF communication is also activated otherwise converse Sleep/Wakeup In sleep state tag has no RF communication and saves battery life Lock/ Unlock Protect tag information reading when it is locked Tag Alarm Types Description BatteryLow Alarm occurs when battery level falls below 80 SensingThreshold Alarm occurs when sensing value exceeds threshold limit SensingMemoryFull Alarm occurs when tag memory becomes full  A flowchart of SenTM control flow in a sensor tag life cycle is shown in Fig. 8. We can divide a sensor tag life cycle and its control flow, broadly into 3 stages. First stage can be named as Configuration and Activation stage. At this stage, tag is activated; tag information and threshold condition is configured. For tag security Lock command is used to lock the configured values. Tag Sensing and Logging is activated so that tag starts to sense and store the sensing values in its tag memory. Then control switches to second stage- Checking and Alarm generation. Sensing values and alarm conditions \(BatteryLow, ThresholdExceed MemoryFull\ecked continuously and alarms are generated accordingly Control Sensor Tag Management SensorDataReport TagAlarm  0 0 0  SensingData  TagStatus  Command 0 AlarmNotification TagMood TagState DeviceSetting AlarmSetting SensingQuery 
633 


 Figure 8. SenTM Control Flow during Sensor Tag life cycle  Final stage of the control flow is- Action and Deactivation. When an alarm event occurs, separate alarm actions are taken depending on the types of the event. If alarm type is BatteryLow, tag Logging and Sensing is deactivated to save tag battery life and to protect loss of sensing information stored in the tag memory. Similar action is taken to save tag battery power, if sensing value exceeds threshold limit. In case of MemoryFull alarm, a check is necessary whether tag is in reader area or out of the reader area. Read and Reset sensing memory action is taken when tag is inside the reader interrogation zone. But, tag status bit is set or Beep/Flash-bit ON when tag is out of the reader zone, in order to provide reliable system services D  3-Layer SenTM Architecture Fig. 9 shows the detailed block diagram of SenTM architecture for efficient sensor tag management. It is a 3layer architecture: \(1\apture Layer, \(2\ervice Layer and 3\pplication Layer. Capture Layer receives integrated RFID-Sensing data from active sensor tag, Application Layer provides necessary API\(s\ the user, while Service Layer provides all the services required for efficient sensor tag management SenTM Capture Layer is the bottom layer of SenTM architecture. It provides common reader interface for both active and passive reader types. Active Reader Layer is used for capturing streaming RFID-Sensing data from active sensor tag while Passive Reader Layer is used to read passive RFID tag data. Captured event is dispatched by Message dispatcher and sent to the SenTM Service layer for further processing SenTM Service Layer is the core of SenTM Architecture This layer provides 4 types of services required by the application. These are: \(1\Tag Command and Control 2\ice and Data Management Services \(DDMS\, \(3\ent and Query Processing Services EQPS\d \(4\rage and Output Services \(DSOS Tag command and controlling is performed by TCCS TCCS consists of Command and Controller modules while DDMS consists of four management modules. The Active Reader and Tag manager modules used for device management and other two is used for data management EQPS has an Event Handler module that listens and detects events of several types and process that event accordingly The Report Generator, and Data Storage and Loggers together form DSOS service module. SensorDB stores sensing data while Report Generator module provides the sensing report in accordance with the query registered by the user  Internet / Intranet Figure 9. 3-Layer SenTM Architecture 
634 


SenTM Application Layer is the top layer of SenTM architecture which provides four API\(s\he users Command and Query is sent by using Tag Configuration API and Sensing Query API. The other two API\(s\sed for synchronous and asynchronous sensing reporting to the user. Sensing Data Report API is used to send synchronous reporting for user query and Sensing Alarm Notification API sends alarm notification to the user asynchronously if any alarm event occurs E  Challenges in SenTM  Implementation High performance is one of the major system challenges in SenTM implementation. Detection and generation of alarm notification for tag health and status \(BatteryLow MemoryFull, Sensing threshold etc.\ well as a quick response to user queries are the key requirements of SenTM implementation. Also, application deploying a number sensor tags, generate huge amount of RFID-sensing information which is a scalability issue. Furthermore system performance degrades with the number of users and applications connected to the system. Our designed SenTM architecture uses Continuous Query \(CQ\ Processor and Event Handler module to resolve these issues V  C ONCLUSION  Active RFID tag integrated with sensing module can serve as active sensor tag. The advantage of using active sensor tag is that it provides greater communication range, long battery life and fastest tag data collection. However, sensor tag differs from active tag in several ways, because it continuously senses and stores sensing values in its tag memory. Each sensing value in a tag, costs battery power as well as memory space. Moreover, a sensor tag life cycle has different moods and states. It is necessary to switch tag moods and states depending on the situation that helps store tag battery power as well as sensing data. To control tag and to provide efficient system services, a management system is required. Although, ISO provides standard for active tag communication, it is insufficient to provide all the services required by sensor tag application. In this paper, we analyze the sensor tag applications and existing global standards to extract requirements and necessary features for efficient sensor tag management. Our proposed Sensor Tag Management \(SenTM\itecture is based on EPCglobal Standard Architecture Framework and ISO/IEC 18000-7 active air interface standard that provides compatibility and global interoperability of the system. We proposed four types of core management modules which are namely: Tag Command and Control Services \(TCCS\ice and Data Management Services \(DDMS\, Event and Query Processing Services \(EQPS\d Data Storage and Output Services \(DSOS\we only consider about tag device and tag data management but our tag management does not consider about sensor tag locations. Our future research work lies on providing integrated RFID-Sensing-Location management services using existing standards A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work was supported by the Grant of the Korean Ministry of Education, Science and Technology \(The Regional Core Research Program/Institute of Logistics Information Technology R EFERENCES  1  M its ug i,T  I n aba,L  T h e o do ro u,T  S   L o pe z  D  kim  D  M c F a r l ance H   Hada,Y. Kawakita,K. Osaka,O.Nakamura. B.Patkai, J.Sung Architecture development for SensorIntegration in the EPCglobal Network” Auto-ID Labs White Paper WP-WENET-018, July, 2007 2 T  S L o pez  D  K i m   W ir el e s s S e ns o r N e t w or ks a n d RF I D  integrationfor Context Aware Services” Auto-ID Labs White Paper WP-WENET-026 3  Tem p er a t u r e a c t i v e S e n s or Ta g O n l i n e  A v a i la b e  http://www.tradeeasy.com/supplier/583063/products/p1034900/245gh z-rfid-temperature-sensor-active-tag.html 10.01.2009 4  S e v i T e chno l o gy RF I D Se ns o r T a g s to tr ac k a n d m o ni to r g l o b al  Shipment [Onlin  A v a i la b e  http://www.logisticsit.com/absolutenm/templates/articledatacapture.aspx?articleid=2073&zoneid=6 02.01.2009 5 Th e E P C g lob a l W e b s i t e http://www.epcglobalinc.org  6 E P C g lob a l I n c  E P C g lob a l Ta g C l a s s S t r u ct u r e http://www.epcglobalinc.org/standards/TagClassDefinitions_1_0whitepaper-20071101.pdf 08.11.2008 7 K  F i n k e n z e l le r  RF I D H a ndbo o k   F undam e n t al s  an d A p pl ica tio ns  inContactless Smart Card Identification”, Second ed., John Wiley Sons, 2003 8 K  M i c h a e l  L  M c C a t h i e   T h e P r o s a n d C o n s o f R F I D i n S u p p l y  ChainManagement”, Proceedings of the International Conference on Mobile Business, 2005, pp. 623–629 9  D e ng  D e s ig n o f S e ns o r E m b e d de d R a d i o F r e que ncy  Identification\(SE-RFID\ Systems” Proceedings of 2006 IEEE International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation, June 2528, 2006, Luoyang, China 10  Co l d C h a i n A ppl ic at io ns  an d S e r v ice s O nl i n e  A v ail a bl e   http://www.sensitech.com/applications/coldchain_logistical  12.01.2009   C o ld Ch ai n Ma na gem e n t T ool O n l i n e A v a i la b l e http://www.foodproductiondaily.com/Quality-Safety/RFID-tag-acold-chain-management-tool 22.01.2009  W  Yoon S. Ch un g, S L e e  I m p l e m e n t a t i o n  a n d  p e rform a n c e  evaluation of an active RFID system for fast tag collection” Computer Communication Archive, Vol. 31, Issue. 17, P.P 4107- 4116, ISSN 0140-3664, 2008   E P C g lob a l I n c   T h e E P C g lob a l A r c h i t ec tu re F r a m e w ork 1  2  Onlin A v a i la b l e http://www.epcglobalinc.org/standards/architecture/architecture_1_2framework-20070910.pdf 15.07.2008  I S O I E C 18 000 7 I n form a t i o n t ech n o logy  R a d i o frequ e n c y identification \(RFID\tem management – Part 7: Parameters for active air interface communications at 433 MHz, 2008 15  E P Cg l o bal  I n c.”Re a d e r M a n a g e m e nt 1 0 1 O nl ine  A v ail a bl e   http://www.epcglobalus.org/dnn_epcus/Standards/EPCglobalStandard s/ReaderManagementStandard/tabid/377/Default.aspx 10.10.2008   E P C g lob a l I n c   T h e R e a d er Prot oc ol St a nda rd Vers i o n  1  1   Ratified Standard June 21, 2006 17 I S O  I E C 15 9 61 I n f o r m atio n te c hno l o g y Radio f r e que nc y  identification \(RFID\ for item management - Data protocol application interface \(2004 18 I S O  I E C 15 9 62 I n f o r m atio n te c hno l o g y Radio f r e que nc y  identification \(RFID\ for item management - Data protocol: data encoding rules and logical memory functions \(2004 
635 


  7  Figure 4 compares drive time blue line\ run time \(red line\for K10 Red.  On June 9, drive time and run time are nearly equal, indicating that the robot was driving during most of the duty period as expected.  On June 10 and 11 however, the drive time is significantly less than the run time, indicating that the robot was stationary roughly half the time it was running.  This mismatch can indicate performance problems, either due to increased robot down time or robot wait time between plans.  An inspection of events during these days indicates the robot did experience problems on both days.  On June 10, communication difficulties and low lighting resulted in reduced rover performance.  The wait time between plans was between 30 and 50 minutes, which is much longer than on June 9.  On June 11 the rover base controller had problems and the site terrain impacted traversability, both of which impacted the rover's ability to complete plans in a timely manner Figure 5 compares distance trav eled by the K10 Red rover to the planned distance.  An inspection of this figure indicates a limitation in using accumulated total distance as a metric.  By the end of the test, K10 Red had traveled 2375 meters, which agrees well with the planned distance of 2235 meters.  A comparison of planned distance to distance traveled for each duty cycle, how ever, reveals that the rover traveled further than planned on June 9, which masked the fact that the rover traveled less than planned on June 10  Figure 5. K10 Red Distance at Moses Lake There were significant problems with the quality of data communication to JSC for remote science operations on June 10 and 11, indicated by the high data gap count on these days. On June 10, there were 54 gaps ranging from 10 seconds to 53.5 minutes and on June 11 there were 65 gaps ranging form 10 seconds to 54 minutes. The reduced data quality affected the accuracy of the performance metrics computed remotely for K10 Red on these days K10 Black Performance K10 Black performed systematic site surveys in support of simulated science operations on June 12. A typical site survey performed by K10 Black consisted of navigating through a sequence of waypoints while taking GPR readings continuously. Often microscopic images were taken at waypoints as well. During the day of survey operations at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, the K10 Black robot was powered up for 5.67 hrs \(Run Time\and drove for .64 hrs \(Drive Time\or 11.3% of the time it was powered up Figure 6\Drive Time was lower than expected due a combination of GPR hardware problems and navigation problems due to inaccurate odometry in the sand at the survey site. K10 Black attempted to execute four science plans for a total planned distance of 776 meters \(Planned Distance\ actually traveled a total of 838 meters Completed Distance\ perform these survey activities Figure 7  Figure 6. K10 Black Operating Time at Moses Lake  Figure 7. K10 Black Distance at Moses Lake 


  8 The quality of data communication to JSC for remote science operations on June 12 was much better than that on the two days prior. There were a total of 5 gaps, ranging from 10 seconds to 30.75 minutes. These data gaps did not have a significant effect on th e accuracy of the performance metrics computed remotely for K10 Black 5  D ISCUSSION  The Role of Context Understanding the intent of rover activities provides an important basis for grounding the computation and interpretation of performance metrics. In particular, we assert that metrics, whether us ed for real-time monitoring or post-processed analysis, can only be interpreted in context  i.e., with respect to expect ations of performance for a particular task, activity plan, robot mode of operation, etc For example, the computation of Percentage Distance Complete \(ratio of Completed Distance to Planned Distance\requires constraining the computation of Completed Distance to be performed only while K10\222s plan is executing and to be reset to zero when a new plan is uplinked. Similarly the computation of metrics during autonomous operations should be distinguishable from metrics during teleoperation because expected performance can be quite different in these different control modes Finally, the computation of metrics during anomalous operations should be separa ble from nominal operations The rover may be successful at recovering from a problem while doing less well at achieving nominal mission objectives. In some cases, a me tric needs to be computed concurrently in more than one context For example, it is useful to accumulate Comple ted Distance for each plan distance traveled within a pl an\entire mission \(total distance traveled Another example is that the accuracy of real-time performance computations de pends upon the quality of the communication with the robot. We used the Data Gap Count as an indicator of communication quality during the field test at Moses Lake. While useful, this count does not represent information about the duration of communication problems. Based on our experience at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, we have identified a new metric for communication quality. We propose to compute the percentage of the duty period without data from the robot \(called Percentage Time in Data Gap\ as a measure of the quality of metrics, since a high percentage would indicate lossy communication and reduced confidence in the com puted values of performance metrics Real-time Displays During the test we identified and implemented a number of new features for the dashboard displays in response to operational needs. These feature include \(1\a user-initiated snapshot of all computed values we later expect to add the ability to restore the state of the computation engine to this checkpoint state, \(2\ogging of time-stamped user comments \(called user events pect to display user events in the timeline disp lay, and \(3\o the value of constants in the dashboard displays without restarting the computations. We also added new dashboard displays of rover data during the test. These displays provide information about the rover that aids in understanding performance \(i.e., execution status of planned tasks, robot subsystem status\add these new displays indicates the flexibility and extensibility of our architecture for performance monitoring Duty Periods During the HRS field test at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, we computed metrics whenever data were being transmitted from the rover. We did this to ensure that metrics reflected all rover activities. We expected that the value of metrics at the end of each day would then provide a summary of the day\222s activities. This resulted, however, in the computation of metrics during time periods when the rover was not intended to be operating \(e.g lunch periods, waiting for a demo, etc\e-based metrics such as Run Time and Drive Time were computed at times when the rover was not intended to be powered up or moving. This resulted in inflated Run Times \(see Figures 4 and 7\and artificially reduced the ratio of Drive Time to Run Time We believe a more realistic assessment of performance should constrain the computation of metrics to time periods when the rover is intended to be performing tasks. We define a concept called a duty period that corresponds to a contiguous interval of operations \(such as from rover startup in the morning until a planned ground control break period\We propose to compute accumulated metrics only during duty periods in future tests Technology Deployment at NASA The evaluation of our performance monitoring software during robotic field tests has provided useful feedback on the utility of the proposed metric s.  In particular we have gained valuable experience in using such metrics when data are subject to periodic dropouts We recently evaluated the use of our performance metrics during an analog test of rover reconnaissance as a precursor to planning astronaut EVAs where we got feedback a bout the utility of metrics for flight operations.  There is remaining work, however, before this technology can be operationally deployed A variety of data types are used by the real-time performance monitoring of robots.  These data types have correlates in current NASA operations, including spacecraft telemetry, Comps \(combinations of raw telemetry\anning information, and flight rules.  Deployment of performance 


  9 monitoring technology in flight operations will require that such information be captured electronically and made available for computer-based reasoning.  Recent efforts to move flight products like Sp ace Station activity plans and attitude timelines into XML supports this objective and future programs are investigating standards for representing such information, but current NASA programs have not yet achieved the level of information integration that will be needed to automate performan ce monitoring as described in this paper The availability of real-time performance data raises the possibility of using this data to adjust operations for improved performance.  Such real-time performance management has become a consideration for commercial plant operations as plant automation is introduced.  Often the barriers to real-time performance management are as much cultural as technical In a recent article \(Spiegel 2007\t was observed the adjustment of plant operations by the enterprise has met strong resistance due to mutual mistrust between plant operators and corporate Information Technology departments.  Such barriers are also a possibility when introduci ng real-time performance management into NASA operations 6  F UTURE W ORK  Assessing Performance Based on Expectations An important result from this test is an approach for improving the interpretation of performance metrics. Prior to the test, we established performance expectations from robot task plans \(called plan performance\Satisfactory performance was defined as the achievement of planned targets \(e.g., successful completion of planned tasks or collection of planned samples\ion of robot performance during the test made it clear there are other considerations in defining satisfactory performance The limits imposed by robotic hardware and software design define expectations about the robot\222s engineered performance. Engineered performance defines robot capabilities under ideal circum stances. Robot operations however, often occur under less than ideal circumstances which can constrain maximum speed and sensor accuracy The limits imposed by the environment in which the robot operates define expectati ons about robot operational performance. Engineered perform ance also can be degraded over the course of multiple missions due to normal component wear as well as systemic problems that reduce performance The limits imposed by component use and subsystem problems define the expectations about robot degraded mode performance. Robot operations can be further constrained by flight rules. Maximum robot speeds may be reduced when operating near other robots. Or, certain robot behaviors may be precluded when operating near humans The limits imposed by the flight rules established for a mission define expectations about safe performance Moreover, when comparing robot metrics over multiple duties periods or missions \(called historical performance\or comparing the performance of different robots, it is important to establish a basis of comparison that identifies which of these performance dimensions predominate and how these dimensions combine to establish performance expectations, such as: Did robotic hardware or software change between missions? And were the robots being compared operating under the similar operational constraints Summarizing Performance We are currently preparing to use our real-time performance monitoring software to support a test of science operations at NASA Ames Research Center in November 2008. Based on our experience at Moses Lake Sand Dunes, we have identified a few key metrics that should provide a high-level summary of rover performance. These metrics will be displayed on a summary Web page for operational use. We will summarize rover performance from the following three perspectives 200  Mission: metrics that describe the rover\222s contribution to the mission. The Work Efficiency shows the ratio of rover productive time to rover overhead time. When WEI exceeds 1.0, the rover is spending more time accomplishing mission objectives than performing other activities. The Percentage of Time on Task shows the ratio of rover productive time to total operating time 200  Science: metrics that describe the rover\222s performance with respect to the scie nce plan. The Percentage Distance Complete summarizes the percentage of the planned distance that has been traveled by the rover The Percentage of Tasks Complete describes the percentage of planned tasks successfully completed 200  Rover: metrics that describe the rover\222s health and status. We detect when personnel intervene in rover operations to handle anomalies, and we compute the Mean Time to Intervene a nd the Mean Time between Interventions We also plan to compute the Percentage Time in Data Gap as a measure of the quality of computed values, since a high percentage indicates lossy communication and a lower confidence in metrics To illustrate how we expect this information to summarize performance for mission managers, consider the following example based on data collected by K10 Red at Moses Lake on the afternoon of June 11, 2008. In this example, we 


  10 played back recorded data into our performance monitoring software and took a screen shot of the Ops Synopsis dashboard display partway through the run \(Figure 8 this situation, the rover is executing a science plan to perform reconnaissance of the Moses Lake Sand Dunes. At the time of the screen shot, the rover has spent 59% of its time on planned tasks for a WEI of 1.446. This indicates the mission is going reasonably well, since WEI is greater than 1.0 and the rover is spending the majority of its time on planned tasks. The science metrics indicate good progress is being made on data collection, requiring the rover to drive 326 meters to complete 70% of the plan. The rover metrics indicate minimal unintended human intervention, with MTBI \(00:39:10.7\gnificantly greater than MTTI 00:02:01.2\The Percentage Time in Data Gap is zero indicating that metrics are based on all available robot data and are thus considered reliable  Figure 8. Example of Summary Metrics for Mission Manager  7  C ONCLUSIONS  Our performance computation so ftware operated reliably for over 46 hours during a four-day period. Task performance metrics computed for the K10 robots during the field test include robot drive time, robot run time, and performance during plans \(e.g., percentage of planned distance completed, percentage of planned samples complete\We measured the number of times we lost signal from the robot at the simulated Mission Control as a measure of the quality of our real-time metrics. Based on these results, we conclude that our proposed approach for computing and displaying rover performance metrics in real-time is viable 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  This work was funded under NASA\222s Small Business Innovative Research \(SBIR\ program, Topic X7.02 HumanSystem Interaction and supported by the NASA Exploration Systems Technology Development Program \(ETDP Human-Robotic Systems \(HRS\. We wish to thank Dr. Matthew Deans and Dr. David Lees of the Intelligent Robotics Group at NASA Ames Research Center for consulting on the definition of the metrics used for the test at Moses Lake Sand Dunes 


  11 R EFERENCES    and Fran cesco Amigoni, \223On Evaluating Performance of Exploration Strategies for Autonomous Mobile Robots,\224 Workshop on Performance Evaluation and Benchmarking for Inte lligent Robots and Systems Proceedings, IEEE Internati onal Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, September 26, 2008  Jacob C r andal l M i chael Goodri c h, Dan Ol sen, Jr., and Curtis W. Nielsen, \223Validating Human\226Robot Interaction Schemes in Multitasking Environments\224, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics\227Part A Systems and Humans, Vol. 35, No. 4, July 2005  H. Depol d, J. Si egel  and J Hull, \223Metrics for Evaluating the Accuracy of Diagnostic Fault Detection Systems\224 IGTI Turbo Expo, June 2004  ann, "KA 1 10 Benchmarks for Robotics Research," European Robotics Network \(EURON\IST2000-26048, April 24 2004  A. St ei nfel d, T. Fong, D. Kaber, M Lewi s, J. Schol t z  A Schulz, and M. Goodrich, \223Common Metrics for HumanRobot Interaction,\224 2006 ACM Conference on HumanRobot Interaction. March 2004   T Fong, M B u al at M Deans, M Al l a n  X Bouyssounouse, M. Broxton, L. Edwards, R. Elphic, L Fluckiger, J. Frank, L. Keely, L. Kobayashi, P. Lee, S. Y Lee, D. Lees, E. Pacis, E. Park, L. Pedersen, D Schreckenghost, T. Smith, V. To, and H. Utz, \223Field Testing of Utility Robots for Lunar Surface Operations, \223 AIAA Space 2008, AIAA-2008-7886. September 2008  M i ke Gernhardt, W o rk Effi ciency Indices. Presentation at Johnson Space Center. November 15, 2005  e b Toolkit http://code.google.com  webtoolkit   Tol g a Kurt ogl u Ol e J. M e ngshoel and Scot t Pol l A Framework for Systematic Benchmarking of Monitoring and Diagnostic Systems,\224 2008 International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management Proceedings October 6-9, 2008  ile http://code google.com/p/simile-widgets  D. Ol sen and M  Goodri c h 223M et ri cs for Eval uat i ng Human-Robot Interactions,\224 Proceedings of NIST Performance Metrics for Intelligent Systems, Sep 2003  SAE \(Soci e t y of Aut o m o t i v e Engi neers t h  and Usage Monitoring Metrics, Monitoring the Monitor\224 SAE ARP 5783, February 2008  Abhi nav Saxena, Jose C e l a y a  Edward B a l a ban Kai  Goebel, Bhaskar Saha, Sankalita Saha, and Mark Schwabacher, \223Metrics for Evaluating Performance of Prognostic Techniques,\224 2008 International Conference on Prognostics and Health Management Proceedings October 6-9, 2008  Edward Tunstel, \223Perform ance M e trics for Operational Mars Exploration Rover,\224 Journal of Field Robotics Volume 24 Issue 8-9, 651 \226 670, September 2007   H. A. Yanco, J. L., Drury and J. Schol t z B ey ond Usability Evaluation: Anal ysis of Human-Robot Interaction at a Major Robotics Competition," Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, Volume 19, 117\227149 2004   J. Arnol d, \223Towards a Fram ework for Archi t ect i ng Heterogeneous Teams of Humans and Robots for Space Exploration\224, M.S. Thesis, Dept. of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2006 17] Lane Desborough and Ra ndy Miller, \223Increasing Customer Value of Industrial Control Performance Monitoring -- Honeywell's Experience,\224 Sixth International Conference on Ch emical Process Control Jan 2001  J.W Hi nes and E. Davi s, "Lessons Learned from  t h e U.S. Nuclear Power Plant On line Monitoring Programs Progress in Nuclear Energy, Volume 46, Issues 3-4, 2005 pp 176-189   Henry  X Li u, W e nt eng M a Xi nkai W u and Heng Hu 223Development of a Real-Time Arterial Performance Monitoring System Using Traffic Data Available from Existing Signal Systems,\224 Minnesota Department of Transportation Technical Report MN/RC 2009-01 December 2008   R ob Spi e gel  223C onnect i ng Sensor Dat a t o t h e Boardroom,\224 Automation World, March 2007 B IOGRAPHY   Debra Schreckenghost is a Senior Scientist with TRACLabs in Houston, TX. She is Principal Investigator of the NASA Phase II SBIR developing a soft ware framework for inline monitoring of robot health and performance. Previously she has led projects developing adjustable autonomy software for monitoring and control of crew life support systems and personal ag ents for distributed space 


  12 operations. She has published over 70 technical publications in the areas of adjustable autonomy, architectures for intelligent software agents, and human-computer interaction. She received a BS in electrical engineering from the University of Houston and an MS in electrical engineering from Rice University Terrence Fong is the director of the Intelligent Robotics Group at the NASA Ames Research Center. Prior to this, he was the deputy leader of the Virtual Reality and Active Interfaces Group at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne. Fong has published mo re than fifty papers in field robotics, human-robot inter action, virtual reality user interfaces, and parallel processi ng. He received his BS and MS in Aeronautics and Astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his Ph.D. in Robotics from Carnegie Mellon University  Tod Milam is a Research Scientist with TRACLabs, Houston, TX.  Previously he was a Senior Software Engineer at Lockheed Martin Space Mission Systems Services, working on traffic management systems, as we ll as software for Mission Control Center at Johnson Sp ace Center. He began working with TRACLabs in 2000 and was a key developer of TRACLabs' Distributed Collaboration and Interaction System, providing intelligent agents for human-automation interaction in mission operations.  He is currently the lead developer for a NASA Phase II SBIR on developing software for in-line computation of robot measures of performance. Mr. Milam received his Bachelors degree in Computer Science from Drake University in 1988 Estrellina Pacis is a Project Manager at SPAWAR Systems Center, Pacific where she has been developing unmanned systems for the past 6 years. Mrs. Pacis has led numerous projects focused on the development integration, and testing of autonomous behaviors for military applications. Her current focus is on the study of robotic mapping and exploration techniques suitable for supporting dismount troops during urban operations Hans Utz is a Mobile Robot Software Architect for the Research Institute for Advanced Computer Science \(RIACS working with the Inte lligent Robotics Group at NASA Ames Research Center \(ARC work is concerned with the development of advanced software architectures for autonomous mobile robotics Before joining NASA ARC, he was a PhD student at the Dept of Neuroinformatics, University of Ulm, Germany. He designed the robotics middlew are Miro and coached the Ulm Sparrows, a project on "autonomous mobile robotics in highly dynamic environments", which is probably better known as robot soccer.  He has a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Ulm, Germany 


  13  


  14 B IOGRAPHY  Capt. Chris Badgett is a System Engineer for the STP-SIV at the Space Development and Test Wing Kirtland AFB. He previously served as developmental engineer at Air Force Research Laboratory Munitions Directorate working on a weapon data link and F-16 small munitions dispenser. He has a B.S.E.E. from University of Tennessee and an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology  Nicholas Merski is currently the Program Manager for the STP-SIV program at the Space Development and Test Wing, Kirtland AFB. His previous experience focused on small satellite command and control systems in project management, systems engineering and operations roles. He has a B.S in Industrial Engineering from University of Pittsburgh and is completing an M.S. in Space Systems from the Air Force Institute of Technology Mike Hurley is the Spacecraft Development Section Head at NRL in Washington DC. Mr. Hurley has helped shape and implement ORS and TacSat experimentation since 2002. Beginning April 2003, he was Program Manager for the Secretary of Defense\222s \(OSD\ ORS initiative, as well as the Principle Investigator for Office of Naval Research\222s \(ONR\ TacSat Innovative Naval Prototype \(INP program. In 2005 he received the DOD Civilian Meritorious Medal for his work in ORS and TacSat experimentation. He is an engineering graduate of Virginia Tech and holds an M.B.A. from George Mason University  Paul Jaffe is an electrical engineer and the Integration and Testing Section Head at the Naval Center for Space Technology at NRL. He has worked on NASA and DOD space missions, including Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory STEREO\ and TacSat-1. Recently he developed standards and led spacecraft computer hardware development for TacSat-4 as part of the DOD ORS effort He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University Hallie Walden is an Advanced Systems Manager at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. She worked as the STP-SIV Capture Manager and as the Deputy Program Manager from program inception through the Preliminary Design Review. Prior efforts include thermal, fluids, and thermodynamic analyses and design for Ball Aerospace, Lockheed Martin, and AlliedSignal \(now Honeywell\. She holds B.S.M.E and M.S.M.E. degrees from Stanford University  Alan Lopez is currently a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. in Boulder CO since 2005. He received his undergraduate degree from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois and began working at TRW in Redondo Beach, CA in 1985. After completing his M.S.E.E. degree at the University of Southern California in 1990, he began working at Hughes Space and Communications in El Segundo, CA  Mike Pierce is a Principal Systems Engineer at Ball Aerospace Technologies Corp. He is the Chief System Engineer for the STP-SIV program and wrote the STP-SIV PLUG. Prior efforts include system modeling and simulation, mission operations, and mission design working for Spectrum Astro \(now General Dynamics\ and the USAF At Spectrum Astro, he was a key member of Discover II Space Based Infrared System\( SBIRS\ Low and Near Field Infrared Experiment \(NFIRE\ programs. He holds a B.S. in Aerospace Engineering from the United States Naval Academy and an M.S. in Aerospace Engineering degree from the University of Colorado at Boulder  David Kaufmann is Program Manager for STP-SIV at Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp He also served as Program Manager for DARPA Orbital Express NextSat Commodity Spacecraft program. He previously served as a Thermal Engineer at Hughes Space and Communications Co. in El Segundo, CA. He holds a B.S. from Stanford University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology in Mechanical Engineering 


 15  The architecture permits random access to any EDAC word within the recorder. Simultaneous writing and reading is supported.  Memory is divisible into blocks with an unlimited number of blocks forming a Sector.   Each sector contains information that permits reconstruction of the File Structure independent of the CDH Sector Definition As unique Data Units are identified by the CDH host, the SSR commences placement of information in the first available memory location The information placed therein contains information identifying the Sector and relevant information with respect to data unit identification  Figure 22 - Sector & Data Unit Structure Each sector of information has contained within identification as to the next sector tag as well as the tag of the previous sector.  In this way, should the file structure need to be rebuilt, a scan of memory anywhere will reveal not only the type and source of information encountered but also the logical placement of a ll relevant information before and after this data block Consumables For Flash memory technology, the data is stored, and erased, by the imposition of high voltages onto the substrate and controlling gates.  Therefore, this technology is stressful to the device and is rated to 100,000 write or erase cycles NROM technology uses a different charge storage mechanism and is therefore not subject to write/erase degradation Stability Testing has shown commercial NROM devices to retain data up to 300 krads, a simple refreshment following exposure permits a likewise gain in radiation tolerance That is 300krads, refresh, 600 krads, etc [1   Flash devices are prone to damaging charge-trapping and therefore do not benefit by the refreshment scheme outlined above.  The users of Flash must take the surrounding radiation environment into consideration when declaring the number of write cycles a certain design can accommodate Chassis Dimensions and mass for the HC-SSR assume the chassis is manufactured in 100 mils aluminum,  One possible design is shown in Figure 23  Figure 23 \226 Packaging Concept \226 HC-SSR Power Worst case power estimation for the Flash unit is 6W and 30W for an NROM-based design 9 The power estimation includes both SpaceWire interfaces enabled and simultaneous read and write of information occurring Unused non-volatile memory devices are unpowered and the non-addressed memory contro ller ASICs are in a Deep Sleep mode 8  C ONCLUSION  A review of data storage technologies was presented and evidence presented to affirm the assertion known as 223Moore\222s Law\224 that storage capacity of a single element will increase every \(a pprox.\0 months A prognostication of data recorder capacity requirements for future JPL mission and programs has been made.  Based upon a past history spanning over thirty years, it is clearly evident that required capacity will progress at an exponential rate, effectively mimicking the rate provided in Moore\222s Law.  A new Axiom is coined:  A reasonable accurate prediction of data recorder volume and power can be made when based upon today\222s technology and today\222s data storage requirements   9 Power margin \(uncer tainty\cluded in these figures Header/Sector ID Next Previous Data Unit Header Data Data Sector   Data Data Unit End Flag Next Previous                        


 16  A High Capacity Solid Sate Recorder \(HC-SSR\is suggested using devices predicated to be available for each decade.   The design is robu st and easily implemented using conservative design and manufacturing techniques D EFINITIONS  rad radiation absorbed dose\:   the dose causing 0.01 joule of energy to be absorbed per kilogram of matter.   As the absorption is greatly affected by the molecular structure of the material, citations should al so indicate the material as a subscript to the term 223rad\224, as in rad Si indicating Silicon equivalency.  For the purposes of this paper, radiation equivalency always assumes Silicon For completeness, it should be noted that System International replaced the \223rad\224 with the unit Gr ay \(Gy\nd having an equivalency of 100 rads = 1 Gy [27 How e v e r   the use of rads, kilorads, megarads remains in the industry vernacular and is used in this document Moore\222s Law Named after Fairchild Semiconductor technologist Gordon Moore, Moore\222s law was derived from empirical data which shows that the dimensions of basic memory cells will shrink by approximately 50% of the previous value every 30 to 36 months.  It is Moore\222s Law more or less, that forms the backbone of the ITRS examinations for memory devices A DDITIONAL M ATERIAL  Standard Dose Rates for Various Orbits and Missions per year Earth    LEO  100 rad \(protons  MEO  100 krad \(protons electrons  GEO  1 krad \(electrons  Transfer Orbit  10 krad \(protons electrons Mars     Surface  2 krad \(electrons  Orbit  5 krad \(protons  Transit  5 krad \(protons Jovian     Transfer  100 Mrad \(protons electrons A CKNOWLEDGEMENT  The research described in this paper was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.   The Author thanks the many who guided the concept and offered support all along the way.   With special thanks to fellow-JPL\222ers Gary Noreen who provided funding\nd Taher Daud who provided editing ad-hoc extraordinaire  R EFERENCES    G M o o r e C r a m m i ng m o re C o m pone nt s o n t o  Integrated Circuits Electronics vol. 38, no. 8, April 1965 2 G M o ore, "No Expo n e n tial is Forev er: B u t 223Forever\224 Can Be Delayed Digest of Technical Papers, International Solid State Circuits Conference pp. 1.1-1 thru 1.1-19, 2003  S eagate Tec hnology Com p any. Seagate Tec hnical Corporation. [Onlin http://www.seagate.com/docs/pdf/marrketing/Article _Perpendicular_Recording.pdf   B l u R ay Di sc Ass o ci at i on  2 00 5 M a rc h B l u-R a y  Disc Technical Papers  J Vel e v K  D B e l a shche n ko  an d et _al   2 0 0 7  October\ MSREC - University of Nebraska Onlin http://www.mrsec.unl.edu/research/nuggets/nugget_2 6.shtml  6 R Katti, "Honeywell Rad i atio n Hard en ed  No nVolatile Memory \(MRAM\ Product Development in Proceedings, IEEE No n-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium Orlando, 2004, pp. L2:1-15 7 S aif u n  Sem ico n d u c tor  2 008 NV M Techno log y  Over http://www.saifun.com/content.asp?id=113  


 17    J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T T a i r ba nks  Multigenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in NSREC Radiation Effects Workshop Honolulu, 2007, pp. 189-193 9  Semico n du c to r In du str y A s sociatio n SIA  2 008   August\ Home. [Online  www.itrs.net  1  S. Ty s o n P ri v a t e C o m m uni que Tra n sEl  Semiconductor, Albuquerque, NM, 2008 1  T. M i k o l a ji c k  and C U Pi n n o w  2 00 8 N o vem b er Indo-German Winter Academy, 2008, Course 3 Onlin http://www.leb.eei.unierlangen.de/winterakadem ie/2008/courses/course3_ material/futureMemory/Mikolajick_TheFutureofNV M.pdf   BAE System s North Am erica, [Data Sheet Microcircuit, CMOS, 3.3V, NVRAM 8406746, April 28, 2008, Rev A 1  N Ha dda d a n d T Scot t  A da pt i n g C o m m erci al  Electronics to the Natura lly Occurring Radiation Environment," in IEEE Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Tucson, 1994, pp iv-14 1  D. R  R o t h a n d et _al S EU a n d TI D Test i n g of t h e Samsung 128 Mbit and the Toshiba 256 Mbit flash memory," in Radiation Effects Data Workshop  Reno, 2000 1  F. I r o m and D N guy e n  S i n gl e E v ent  Ef fe ct  Characterization of High Density Commercial NAND and NOR Nonvolatile Flash Memories Honolulu, 2007 1  C Ha fer M  L a hey a n d et _al R adi a t i o n H a rd ness  Characterization of a 130nm Technology," in Proceedings IEEE Nuclea r and Space Radiation Effects Conference Honolulu, 2007 17  T. R O l dh am J. Fr iend lich  an d et_ a l, "TID  an d SEE Response of an Advanced Samsung 4Gb NAND Flash Memory," , Honolulu, 2007  R. C. Lac o e C MOS Scaling, Desi gn Princi ples a n d Hardening-by-Design Methodologies," in Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference Short Course Notebook Monterey, 1993, pp. II-1 thru II142 1 J. Pat t e rs o n a n d S  Gue rt i n   E m e rgi ng S E F I M o des and SEE Testing for Highly-Scaled NAND FLASH Devices," in Proceedings 2005 Non-Volatile Memory Technology Symposium vol. CD-ROM, Dallas, TX 2005, pp. G-3, Session G ; Paper 3 2 J. Ta usc h  S. T y son a n d T F a i rba nks  Mulitgenerational Radiation Response Trends in SONOSb ased NROM Flash Memories with Neutron Latch-up Mitigation," in Honolulu Radaition Effects Data Workshop, NSREC, 2007, pp. 189-193 2 M Janai  B Ei t a n A Sha p pi r I B l o o m and G  Cohen, "Data Retention Reliability Model of NROM Nonvolatile Memory Products IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability vol. 4, no. 3, pp 404-415, September 2004 2 D N g uy en a n d F I r o m Tot al Io ni zi n g  Do se \(T ID  Tests on Non-Volatile Memories: Flash and MRAM," in 2007 IEEE Radiation Effects Workshop  vol. 0, Honolulu, 2007, pp. 194-198  G. Noree n  a n d et_al L ow Cost Deep Space Hybrid Optical/RF Communications Architecture," , Big Sky, Montana, 2009, Pre-print 2 T. Sasa da a n d S. I c hi kawa  A p p l i cat i o n o f  Sol i d  State Recorders to Spacecraft," in Proceedings, 54th International Astronautical Cogress Bremen, 2003 2 H Ka nek o  E rr or C o nt r o l C odi ng f o r  Semiconductor Memory Systems in the Space Radiation Environment," in Proceedings, 20th IEEE International Symposium in Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT2005 Monterey 2005 2 T. Sasa da a n d H Ka nek o  D evel o p m e nt an d Evaluation of Test Circuit for Spotty Byte Error Control Codes," in Proceedings, 57th International 


 18  Astronautical Congress Valencia, 2006 27  Bu reau  In tern atio n a l d e s Po ids et Mesures. \(2 008  August\SI Base Units. [On http://www.bipm.org/en/si/base_units   B IOGRAPHY  Author, Karl Strauss, has been employed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over 22 years.  He has been in the Avionics Section from day One.  He is considered JPL\222s memory technology expert with projects ranging from hand-woven core memory \(for another employer\o high capacity solid state designs.  He managed the development of NASA\222s first Solid State Recorder, a DRAM-based 2 Gb design currently in use by the Cassini mission to Satu rn and the Chandra X-Ray observatory in Earth Orbit.  Karl was the founder, and seven-time chair of the IEEE NonVolatile Memory Technology Symposium, NVMTS, deciding that the various symposia conducted until then were too focused on one technology.  Karl is a Senior IEEE member and is active in the Nuclear and Plasma Scie nce Society, the Electron Device Society and the Aerospace Electronic Systems Society Karl is also an active member of SAE Karl thanks his wonderful wife of 28 years, Janet, for raising a spectacular family: three sons, Justin, Jeremy Jonathan.  Karl\222s passion is trains and is developing a model railroad based upon a four-day rail journey across Australia\222s Northern Outback   


 19 Bollobás, B. 2001. Random Graphs. Cambridge University Press; 2nd edition. 500pp  Cawley, G. C., B. L. C. Talbot, G. J. Janacek, and M. W Peck. 2006. Sparse Bayesian Ke rnel Survival Analysis for Modeling the Growth Domain of Microbial Pathogens  Chiang C. L. 1960. A stochastic study of life tables and its applications: I. Probability distribution of the biometric functions. Biometrics, 16:618-635  Cox,  D. R. 1972. Regression models and life tables J. R Stat. Soc. Ser. B 34:184-220  Cox, D. R. 1975.   Partial likelihood Biometrika 62:269276  Cox, D. R. & D. Oakes. 1984 Analysis of Survival Data  Chapman & Hall. London  Cressie, N. A. 1993 Statistics for Spatial Data John Wiley Sons. 900pp  Duchesne, T. 2005. Regression models for reliability given the usage accumulation history. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty Y. Armijo. pp.29-40. World Scientific, New Jersey  Eleuteri, A., R. Tagliaferri, L. Milano, G. Sansone, D D'Agostino, S. De Placido,  M. Laurentiis. 2003.  Survival analysis and neural networks. Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. 4 20-24 July 2003 Page\(s\:2631 - 2636  Ellison, E., L. Linger, and M Longstaff. 1997.  Survivable Network Systems: An Emerging Discipline, Carnegie Mellon, SEI, Technical Report CMU/SEI-97-TR-013, 1997  Fleming, T. R. & D. P. Harrington. 1991. Counting process and survival analysis. John Wiley & Sons. 429pp  Graver, J. and M. Sobel 2005. You may rely on the Reliability Polynomial for much more than you might think Communications in Statistics: Theory and Methods  34\(6\1411-1422  Graves, T. and M. Hamada. 2005. Bayesian methods for assessing system reliability: models and computation. In Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson, et al. pp.41-53  Grimmett, G. 2006 The Random-Cluster Model Springer  Grimmett, G. 1999 Percolation Springer  Hougaard, P. 2000. Analysis of Multivariate Survival Data Springer. 560pp  Ibrahim, J. G., M. H. Chen and D. Sinha. 2005. Bayesian Survival Analysis.  Springer. 481pp  Jin Z. 2005. Non-proportional semi-parametric regression models for censored data. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.279-292 World Scientific  Kalbfleisch, J. D. & R. L. Prentice. 1980 The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data John Wiley & Sons.  New York. 1980  Kalbfleisch, J. D. &  R. L. Prentice, 2002. The Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data.  Wiley-InterScience, 2nd ed 462pp  Lisboa, P. J. G. and H. Wong. 2001. Are neural networks best used to help logistic regression? Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, IJCNN 01. Volume 4, 15-19,  July 2001. Page\(s\:2472 - 2477 vol.4  Kauffman, R. J. and B. Wang. 2002. Duration in the Digital Economy. Proceedings of th e 36th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences \(HICSS’03\ Jan 2003  Kaplan, E. L. & P.  Meier.  1958.  Nonparametric estimation from incomplete observations J. Amer. Statist. Assoc  53:457-481  Klein, J. P. and P. K. Goel 1992. Survival Analysis: State of the Art.  Kluwer Academic Publishes. 450pp  Klein, J. P. and  M. L Moeschberger. 20 03. Survival analysis techniques for ce nsored and truncated data Springer  Krings, A. and Z. S. Ma. 2006.  "Fault-Models in Wireless Communication: Towards Survivable Ad Hoc Networks MILCOM 2006, Military Communications Conference, 2325 October, 7 pages, 2006  Krings, A. W. 2008.  Survivable Systems.  in Information Assurance: Dependability and Security in Networked Systems Yi Qian, James Joshi, David Tipper, and Prashant Krishnamurthy, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \(in press  Lawless, J. F. 1982. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 579pp  Lawless, J. F. 2003. Statistical models and methods for lifetime data.  John Wiley & Sons. 2nd ed. 630pp  Li, M. and P. Vitanyi. 1997. Introduction to  Kolmogorov Complexity and Its Applications. 2nd ed, Springer  Ma, Z. S. 1997.  Survival analysis and demography of Russian wheat aphid populations.  Ph.D dissertation, 307pp University of Idaho Moscow, Idaho, USA 


 20 Ma, Z. S., and E. J. Bechinski. 2008.  Developmental and Phenological Modeling of Russian Wheat Aphid Annals of Entomological Soc. Am In press  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008a. The Competing Risks Analysis Approach to Reliability Survivability, and Prognostics and Health Management.  The 2008 IEEEAIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky, Montana, March 18, 2008. \(In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings 2008b. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(I\e Shared Frailty Approaches to Reliability and Dependence Modeling. The 2008 IEEE-AIAA AeroSpace Conference. BigSky Montana, March 1-8, 2008 In Press, in the same volume  Ma, Z. S. and A. W. Krings. 2008c. Multivariate Survival Analysis \(II\ Multi-State Models in Biomedicine and Engineering Reliability. 2008 IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics BMEI 2008\27th-30th, 2008 Accepted   Mani, R., J. Drew, A. Betz, P. Datta. 1999. Statistics and Data Mining Techniques for Lifetime Value Modeling ACM Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining  Mazzuchi, T. A., R Soyer., and R. V Spring. 1989. The proportional hazards model in reliability. IEEE Proceedings of Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium pp.252-256  Meeker, W. Q. and L. A. Escobar. 1998. Statistical Methods for Reliability Data. Wiley-Interscience  Munson, J. C. 2003. Software Engineering Measurement Auerbach Publications  Nelson, W. 1969. Hazard plotting for incomplete failure data J. Qual. Tech 1:27-52  Nakagawa, T. 2006.  Shock and Damage Models in Reliability Theory. Springer  Osborn, B. 2005. Leveraging remote diagnostics data for predictive maintenance.   In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp. 353-363  Pena, E. A. and E. H. Slate. 2005. Dynamic modeling in reliability and survival analysis. In "Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability". Edited by A. Wilson N. Limnios, S. Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo. pp.55-71  Reineke, D. M., E. A. Pohl, and W. P. Murdock. 1998 Survival analysis and maintenance policies for a series system, with highly censore d data.  1998 Proceedings Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium. pp 182-188  Schabenberger, O. and C. A. Gotway. 2005. Statistical Methods for Spatial Data Analysis.  Chapman & Hall/CRC  Severini, T. A. 2000. Likelihood methods in statistics Oxford University Press  Shooman, M. L. 2002. Reliability of Computer Systems and Networks: Fault Tolerance, Analysis and Design. John Wiley and Sons. 551pp  Stillman, R. H. and M. S. Mack isack, B. Sharp, and C. Lee 1995. Case studies in survival analysis of overhead line components. IEE Conferen ce of the Reliability and Distribution Equipment. March 29-31, 1995. Conference Publication No. 406. pp210-215  Therneau, T. and P. Grambsch. 2000 Modeling Survival Data: Extending the Cox Model Springer  Wilson, A.  N. Limnios, S Kelly-McNulty, Y. Armijo 2005. Modern Statistical and Mathematical Methods in Reliability. World Scientific, New Jersey  Xie, M. 1991. Software Reliability Modeling. World Scientific Press    B IOGRAPHY   Zhanshan \(Sam\ Ma holds a Ph.D. in Entomology and is a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science at the University of Idaho. He has published approximately 30 journal and 30 conference papers, mainly in the former field.  Prior to his recent return to academia, he worked as senior network/software engineers in software industry.  His current research interests include reliability and survivability of wireless sensor networks, fault tolerance survival analysis, evolutionary game theory, evolutionary computation and bioinformatics  Axel W. Krings is a professor of Computer Science at the University of Idaho.  He received his Ph.D. \(1993\ and M.S 1991\ degrees in Computer Science from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and his M.S. \(1982\ in Electrical Engineering from the FH-Aachen, Germany.  Dr. Krings has published extensively in the area of Computer Network Survivability, Security, Fault-Tolerance and Realtime Scheduling. In 2004/2005 he was a visiting professor at the Institut d'Informatique et Mathématiques Appliquées de Grenoble, at the Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France.  His work has been funded by DoE/INL DoT/NIATT, DoD/OST and NIST 


