Primal Fusion Thought Networking Demonstration  Peter Sweeney, Anne Hunt and Robert Barlow-Busch Primal Fusion Inc Waterloo, Ontario, Canada peter.sweeney@primalfusion.com anne.hunt@primalfusion.com bbb@primalfusion.com  Abstract Our thoughts are fleeting and immaterial, this mysterious stuff that’s locked away in our heads Painstakingly, we collect our thoughts and transform them into words and documents. This transformation from thought into action is time-consuming and expensive. Thinking is a decidedly “offline” and manual process 
What would happen if you could instead make your thoughts tangible and concrete? What if you could collect your thoughts as readily as you can search online? What if your thoughts could self-organize around your tasks while you’re off doing other things Thought networking is the idea that’s driving our efforts at Primal Fusion to explore these big questions In this demonstration Primal Fusion will show the thought networking platform and its applications.  This will be an interactive demonstration, where users are invited to try out their own thoughts and actions on the platform. A poster will provide a high-level technical description of the semantic 
platform components I  D EMONSTRATION S ET UP AND F UNCTIONALITY  For this demonstration, we will provide a computer and monitor for demonstrating our user experience, one or more laptops for allowing users to interact with our system independently, and one or more posters outlining some of the technical aspects of our system with respect to semantic engineering The subject of the demonstration will be the Primal Fusion thought networking platform and applications of that platform.  Technical aspects of the system will cover key 
semantic operations, primarily in the area of our approach to semantic synthesis The demonstration audience will have hands-on opportunities to use the Primal Fusion alpha products.  The audience is strongly encouraged to engage in dialogue about the technology and future directions for the technical approach II  T ECHNICAL B ACKGROUND  A  What is Thought Networking Thought networking is an activity.  It is the creation of thought networks: concrete semantic representations of our thoughts, ideas, and interests. Encoded as machine-readable 
data, our thoughts are accessible to the power of computing As structured data, thought networks may be used as inputs to software “agents” to automate much of the drudgery of our online experience.  Thought networks express our thoughts as concrete data structures, structures that can be used to re-organize web data around personal thoughts and interests Thought networks are semantic networks that represent thoughts as mini-webs of interconnected concepts; each network is essentially a personalized, idiosyncratic ontology Primal Fusion’s platform enables consumers to create manage, and deploy thought networks without requiring 
knowledge of the underlying technical structure Static semantic representation is only one aspect of a thought network. We don’t merely form our thoughts, we connect them. The word “thought” signifies a very elemental and dynamic cognitive unit. We manipulate and compound these primitive structures to form ideas, arguments, and perspectives. Primal Fusion uses a semantic synthesis technology to fuse primitive concepts into these higher-order constructs. Synthesis places thoughts in meaningful, taskoriented contexts Automation and tasking turn thoughts into action. With our thoughts collected and organized, we can put them to work: our thoughts may be collated with content and 
expressed as documents, they might traverse the Web to find related information, or they might interface with social networks to connect like-minded individuals. Organized within semantic networks, thoughts have the power to direct computer systems on our behalf B  Benefits of Thought Networking Thought networking is intended to provide two main benefits. First, it will enhance our cognition. Our ability to store and recall information is extremely limited. Thought networks can help by expanding the number of thoughts at our disposal and organizing them effectively Second, thought networks will save time and effort 
Consider how much time you spend collecting and organizing your thoughts. Whether you’re writing a paper for school, planning a trip, or researching a medical condition thoughts are the necessary precursor to action. If we can migrate some of that arduous process online, we can put computers to the task of simplifying your online experience Perhaps the best way to summarize these benefits is by way of an analogy to social networks. In social networks, we 
2009 IEEE International Conference on Semantic Computing 978-0-7695-3800-6/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ICSC.2009.111 561 


put our identity online. Our digital identities live and interact in social networks even when our attention is elsewhere Other people interact with us virtually while we’re off doing other things. And similarly, we can keep tabs on the people we care about, regardless of barriers of time or geography The benefits of thought networking are analogous. Once we digitize our thoughts and put them online, our thoughts may interact with the world even when we’re not attending to them. They become both an independent embodiment of our thinking as well as a powerful knowledge asset. Thought networks won’t displace thinking any more than social networks displace our socializing. But they will augment our ability to think and get stuff done While semantic technology provides for better search better content management, and better data integration, it also provides an opportunity to make our thoughts tangible III  P RIMAL F USION P LATFORM AND O NLINE A PPLICATIONS  We intend to demonstrate one or more alpha applications that use the Primal Fusion semantic platform. The ICSC demonstration audience will be able to experiment with thought networking and with using their thought networks to engage in activities on the web. The audience will be encouraged to interact with the system and to engage in critical technical discussion about existing functionality and future directions  
562 


of security measures can be pinpointed. These aspects are also called core areas and are associated with the three main categories of an e-voting system: hardware software, and human factors Hardware   compliance with election principles   safety   physical security   cryptography Software   compliance with election principles   data integrity   cryptography   transparency   software engineering   protection of software Human factors   compliance with election principles   security management   user interface   transparency   organization of election   validation of independent testing authorities The EVSSO method is based on the fundamental legal principles of elections in European democracies but can be applied to most e-voting systems in democratic republics as most democracies have the same legal basis regarding elections  3.4. Levels of the EVSSO Method  The EVSSO method describes 16 core areas, each of which is categorized into one of three levels. These levels are defined in a way that moving up from one level to a higher one constitutes a significant improvement of the quality of security The three levels are labeled A, B, and C. In some of the core areas only level A, or A and B, are defined, in other areas all three levels are applied. The criteria to meet a specific level are clearly defined for every core area. Some of the criteria for a certain level are detailed and contain many requirements which must be met in order to attain this level. Others are more compact. A detailed list of the criteria for meeting a certain level can be found in the appendix, chapter 6 The core areas and levels are displayed in the EVSSO matrix \(see figure 1\ which visualizes priorities and dependencies of the levels By using this level system, the current situation of security can be clearly defined for every core area This procedure also shows incremental improvements in the security of the assessed system by looking at the criteria of the higher level that was not reached  Fig. 1: The EVSSO Matrix  For the evaluation of an e-voting system, a detailed checklist with criteria and qualifications for achieving a certain level is used. A level can only be reached if all of its requirements are met. If only some of the points of a higher level are accomplished but all conditions of a lower level are met, the core area has to be set to the latter one  3.5. The EVSSO Matrix  The vertical axis of the matrix lists the core areas the horizontal axis shows the maturity level the evoting system was classified into. The maturity levels from 0 to 10 in the matrix are not numeric values for the security of an e-voting system but are merely used Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 3 


to position the different levels. The empty boxes mark the gap between the levels that have to be passed in order to achieve a higher level. A classification into more than one level \(A, B, or C\ time is not possible, i.e. it is not sufficient to meet only some criteria of the next higher level \(e.g. B\; as long as the voting system does not satisfy all criteria of B, it is classified as level A The positions of the levels present priorities and dependencies. The different levels are not equally important from the point of view of security; for example: level A of core area 5 is more important than level A of core area 15. These priorities are displayed through the EVSSO matrix. The levels of the core areas with higher priorities are placed to the right of the levels of core areas that are not as important The EVSSO matrix not only shows priorities but also dependencies among certain levels of various core areas. The levels of the core areas on the left hand side have a higher priority than the levels on the right hand side and the higher the priority, the greater the influence on the maturity of the security of the e-voting system is Dependencies between the levels are also expressed by the positions of the levels: some levels can only be reached after all conditions of another level are met Such levels whose requirements have to be met first are positioned on the left hand side of the levels that depend on them In the EVSSO matrix, the different levels are mapped to a certain maturity level of security, of which there are ten. The categorization of the core areas shows the maturity level with respect to the quality of the e-voting system's security. Level C is always on the right hand side of level B and therefore higher than B level B is higher than A. The security increases with the level. The higher \(and more secure\e level, the more to the right it is placed. Integrity checks \(a criterion in level B of core area 10\or instance only make sense after a certain standard of quality has been reached \(level A of core area 9  4. Evaluation of an E-Voting System with the EVSSO Method  An individual EVSSO matrix is filled out for every e-voting system by critically analyzing the system and determining the level of every single core area. The levels which have been reached are marked green in the matrix. The levels that have not been reached are marked red. The boxes between the levels are also colored. If a core area has not even reached level A level 0 is marked green. The boxes between an achieved level and the next higher level are left blank white\ order to show the gap between those levels For every core area, a short explanation should be given for why a certain level was reached. This enables others to understand the evaluation method and its conclusions A fictitious example for a filled-out EVSSO matrix is shown in figure 2 The coloration of the matrix offers a clear description of the security situation of an e-voting system. Areas colored in red show optimization potential for the security of the assessed e-voting system, green areas show the accomplished maturity level of security  Fig. 2: Example of a filled-out EVSSO matrix after the assessment of an e-voting system  The maturity level can be read in the matrix by looking at the levels accomplished. A particular maturity level is reached when the column of this level contains only green or white boxes. In the example above, the maturity level is 1 because maturity level 1 is the right-most column not containing any red squares. The maturity level is just a means and not a numeric value for the system The necessary order for optimization measures can also be derived from the maturity level of the matrix The vertical column containing the red squares is a checklist of requirements to be fulfilled in order to ascend to the next higher level. The matrix also shows the priority of the measures to be taken: by working from left to right in the diagram crucial measures are handled before less important ones In the example above, level A of core area 4 should be prioritized, because if this level is reached the maturity level of the e-voting system will take a leap and jump from 1 to 3. The objective of the optimization is to reach maturity level 10  5. Conclusion  Security is a value that is difficult to evaluate as it is not easy to quantify. The method introduced offers a qualitative evaluation scheme that suggests specific Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 4 


steps for optimization and an increase in security of an e-voting system Besides a descriptive and simple visualization of the quality of security and a clear evaluation of an evoting system, the matrix of the EVSSO method offers step-by-step optimization suggestions. The main purpose of the EVSSO matrix is to show the strengths and weaknesses of security measures of an e-voting system and to give a clear view of the security situation and possible optimizations. The requirements to meet a certain level provide general recommendations for improvements, from which specific measures can be derived Applying this method does not guarantee an improvement of security but it offers an approach to structure the necessary steps in a better way. The EVSSO method identifies security holes and vulnerabilities and offers suggestions to achieve a higher security level As of now, this method is a theoretical approach and has not yet been applied in a case study. It can be used as a basis for governmental certifications or a future Common Criteria protection profile One of the problems this method shows is the difficulty of defining security in specific terms Security in elections supported electronically cannot be measured in absolute numbers. A system can never be considered 100 % secure because such a system can simply not be developed. In an environment as complex as this one, too many things have to be factored in, and in software development finding all bugs in any non-trivial application is virtually not achievable as  6. Appendix  The appendix shows a short version of the EVSSO checklist. The long version of the list is available in 14, p p. 145-154    1 Hardware - Compliance with Election Principles Level A   secrecy of votes: no linear traceability or traceability by time   secrecy of votes: use of polling booths Level B   publicity and transparency: access to devices storage media \(cards\d their documentation granted before election   limit access to devices and storage media during build-up or use  Level C   storage, locking, and sealing of devices and storage media, periodic controls and documentation of safety precautions   secrecy of votes: protection from Tempest attacks and minimization of noise level  2 Hardware - Safety Level A   correctness of construction   homogeneous architecture   safety of construction and installation   availability Level B   capacitance   durability, reliability   protection during transport and storage   power supply Level C   emergency plan   absence of reaction  3 Hardware - Physical Security Level A   protection from physical attacks   no \(possibility for an\ternet connection   removal of unused devices and interfaces   access control for machines Level B   protection of storage media: physical attacks ability to remove modules, methods to identify copies Level C   protection from \(internal\ Denial of Service Attacks, redundant systems   setting of BIOS passwords  4 Hardware - Cryptography Level A   use of secure anonymous connections for confidentiality   telecommunications security for confidentiality and data integrity Level B   hardware encryption of hard disks  5 Software - Compliance with Election Principles Level A   general right to vote correct collection of the voters' data in the voters' register   equality of votes: one ballot per voter, every vote counts the same Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


  secrecy of votes: anonymous channels, encrypted connections, anonymous ballot casting to urn server Level B   publicity and transparency: analysis of source code with peer reviews, plausibility of casting of votes   public list of additional software used Level C   publicity and transparency: analysis of source code of firmware, device drivers and used Commercial Off-the-Shelf \(COTS\ products used through peer reviews  6 Software - Data Integrity Level A   correct implementation of vote storage, vote counting, and result display   management and audit functions of application Level B   protection of data and reliability: loss of data after crash of machine \(backup systems   use of synchronized internal clocks of machines  7 Software - Cryptography Level A   trusted paths / channels   protection of user data and ballots   use of asymmetric keys for identification authentication, and authorization Level B   use of strong up-to-date algorithms   key management   methods to recognize duplicates or manipulations of storage media Level C   encryption of configuration files and databases  8 Software - Transparency Level A   open source code for inspection by third parties peer reviews   repeated test elections prior to legally valid elections Level B   test of COTS products and operating system   internal error analysis system  9 Software - Software Engineering Level A   quality management: reviews in every phase of development process   risk management in planning phase   traceability of anonymous votes   user input checks   interoperability with existing systems Level B   quality management: automatic and manual testability   implementation guidelines   security tests and auditing after implementation black box tests Level C   team split-up: dual development   security tests and auditing after implementation review of security characteristics of application white box tests, penetration tests   code analyses \(metrics   grant future interoperability by using open, not proprietary standards  10 Software - Protection of Software Level A   homogeneous operation systems with up-to-date security updates   no default passwords or PINs, strong passwords Level B   version checks and checks of integrity of source code, of external \(standard\ used, and of configuration files   secure update mechanism   uninstallation of unused pre-installed software   scalability Level C   authenticity checks of compiler   protection from diverse software security risks   protection from man-in-the-middle attacks  11 Human Factors - Compliance with Election Principles Level A   free right to vote: neutral design of ballot and voting machine. The voter is able to cast an invalid vote \(for no party / candidate   personal right to vote: vote personally without representative   general right to vote: clarification and introductory training for voters in e-voting system Level B   publicity and transparency: inspection of source code by electoral commission, access to voting machines, and verifiability with paper receipts    12 Human Factors - Security Management Level A Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


  introductory training for employees and creation of security plans   security measure: dual control   documentation of handling of software, hardware and storage media for a permanent comprehensible control of all processes Level B   background checks of employees   security awareness trainings for all \(external employees  13 Human Factors - User Interface Level A   representation of ballot on one screen page without scrolling   order of parties / candidates has to correspond to order on paper ballot   adequate representation of course of casting of votes   no illegal interference with process of election   privacy during voting   correct representation of ballot   feedback during and after casting of votes   online help pages for every single step \(context sensitive   acceptable response times of application Level B   multilingualism   magnification of screen \(magnifying glass function\ for visually impaired voters   audio support for blind voters Level C   usability checks with a representative test group  14 Human Factors - Transparency Level A   provision of information on all topics of elections   public announcement of district results   possibility for independent election observation prior to, during, and after elections   checks if number of ballots cast corresponds to number of voters who requested a ballot   anonymous paper ballots Level B   audit phase after election with lessons learned for next election   comparison of exit polls of current and previous years   definition of thresholds for manual recounts  Level C   voting protocol which can be discussed in public and that is publicly available, strong cryptographic algorithms  15 Human Factors - Organization of Election Level A   registration for electronic voting should not be a stumbling block for citizens   begin and end of electronic elections at the same time as for conventional elections   prevention of delays of casting of votes   parallel service: alternative voting with paper ballot is possible   possibility of a test vote Level B   acceptance and distribution \(expense factor absorption of costs by state / county  16 Human Factors - Validation of Independent Testing Authority Level A   examination, certification or test of correctness and security by independent testing authorities ITA  7. References  1 E. Ba rr M. Bis h o p a n d M  G ondre e  Fixing Federal EVoting Standards Communications of the ACM, Volume 50, Issue 3 \(March 2007\. Emergency response information systems: emerging trends and technologies. COLUMN Viewpoint. ACM, 2007, pp. 19-24  2 G  Brands IT-Sicherheitsmanagement - Protokolle Netzwerksicherheit, Prozessorganisation German Springer, 2005  3 S Bruc k D  J e f f e rs on, a nd R Riv e s t  A Modular Voting Architecture \("Frogs Workshop on Trustworthy Elections WOTE '01, August 26-29, 2001, Marconi Conference Center 2001  4 Co unc il of Euro pe  Legal, Operational And Technical Standards For E-voting Recommendation Rec\(2004\1 30 th  of September 2004, Council of Europe Publishing, 2004  5 Fe de ra l Ele c tio n C o m m is s i on Voting System Standards Volume I: Performance Standards U.S. Federal Election Commission, 2002  6 D  G r itzalis  Secure Electronic Voting - New trends, new threats 7th Computer Security Incidents Response Teams Workshop Syros, Greece, September 2002  Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


7 B. Harris Black Box Voting: Ballot-Tampering in the 21st Century Talion Publishing, 2004  8 D  J e f f e r s on, A  Rubi n, B Sim ons a n d D  W a g n e r  Analyzing internet voting security: An extensive assessment of a proposed internet-based voting system  Communications of the ACM, Volume 47, Issue 10 \(October 2004\, pp. 59-64  9 T  K ohn o, A  Stu b b l e f ie ld, a nd A  R ubin   Analysis of an Electronic Voting System Security and Privacy, 2004 Proceedings. 2004 IEEE Symposium on 9-12 May 2004 IEEE, 2004, pp. 27-40  10 G  Mc G r a w  Software Security: Building Security in  Addison-Wesley Professional, 2006, pp. 108  11 L  Mc L a ug hlin Interview: Holistic Security Security Privacy Magazine, IEEE. Volume 3, Issue 3, IEEE, 2005 pp. 6-8  12 R Me rc uri  A better ballot box Spectrum, IEEE Volume 39, Issue 10. 2002. pp. 46-50  13 Y  M u, a n d V Va r a dha r a j a n Anonymous secure evoting over a network Computer Security Applications Conference, 1998, 14th Annual Proceedings, pp. 293-299  1 B O n d r i s ek  Sicherheit elektronischer Wahlen  German\her Dr. Müller, 2008  15 K  Sa m p ig e t hay a a nd R   Poov e n d r a n  A framework and taxonomy for comparison of electronic voting schemes  Computers & Security, Vol. 25, No. 2, Elsevier 2006, pp 137-153  16 B  Sc hne ie r Inside risks: semantic network attacks  Communications of the ACM, Volume 43, Issue 12 December 2000\, ACM, 2000, p. 168  17 I Som m e r v ille  Software Engineering German ed., Pearson Studium, 2007  18 M. Bis h op, a n d D  W a gne r Risks of e-voting  Communications of the ACM, Volume 50, Issue 11 COLUMN: Inside risks. ACM, 2007, p. 120  1 D Di l l  B. S c hn ei er  and B Si m o n s   Voting and Technology: Who Gets to Count Your Vote  Communications of the ACM August 2003/Vol. 46, No. 8 ACM, 2003, pp. 29-31  20 O p e n R i g h t s G r oup May 2007 Election Report Findings of the Open Rights Group Election Observation Mission in Scotland and England 20 Juni 2007  21 Com m unic a tions Ele c t ro nic s Se c u rity G r oup E-Voting Security Study X/8833/4600/6/21, \(Copyright The Crown Issue 1.2 31 United Kingdom, 2002  22  Eur ope a n C o m m is s i on f o r D e m o c r acy  T h r oug h L a w   Code of Good Practice in Electoral Matters CDLAD\(2002\023rev, 18-19 October 2002  23 T  K oom e n a nd M   P o l Test Process Improvement. A Step-by-step Guide to Structured Testing Addison-Wesley Longman, 1999  2 W  Hu m p h r e y   Managing the Software Process  Addison-Wesley, 1989  2 L  Cran o r  an d R Cy t r o n   Sensus: A security-conscious electronic polling system for the internet Proceedings of the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Wailea, Hawaii, IEEE Computer Society Press \(1997\ pp 561-570 vol.3   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


  9   S B  V. Gom e s. “An Invest i g at i on of t h e Fl i ght  Dynamics of Airships with Application to the YEZ-2A PhD thesis, College of Aeronautics, Cranfield University 1990   A El fes et al Percept i on, M odel l i ng and C ont rol for an Autonomous Robotic Airship”. In H. I. Christensen, G D. Hager \(eds.\Base d Intelligent Robots, SpringerVerlag, Berlin, 2001  J. Pay n e, S. S. Joshi  6 Degree-of-Freedom  NonLinear Robotic Airship Model for Autonomous Control Robotics, Autonomous Systems, and Controls Laboratory RASCAL\cal Report 040521, University of California, Davis, 21 May 2004 15 J. Balaram et al DSENDS  A Hig h Fid e lity Dynamics and Spacecraft Simulator for Entry, Descent and Surface Landing", IEEE 2002 Aerospace Conf., Big Sky Montana, March 2002   S I R oum el i o t i s A. E. Johnson, and J. F Montgomery. “Augmenting Inertial Navigation with ImageBased Motion Estimation”. In Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, Washington, DC, 2002 B IOGRAPHY  Dr. Alberto Elfes is a Principal Member of Technical Staff in the Mobility and Robotics Systems Section at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory \(JPL\eads projects in the areas of autonomous aerial vehicles for planetary exploration coordination and control of robot/robot and robot/human teams and space mission planning and architecture optimization. He has held positions as Director of the Automation Institute, Brazil, and as a research scientist at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, the Engineering Design Research Center and the Robotics Institute, CMU. Additionally, he has held university professorships in Brazil and Germany. He has an E.Eng degree in Electronics Engineering and an M.Sc. degree in Computer Science from the Aeronautics Institute of Technology \(ITA\razil, and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering, with concentration in Robotics from Carnegie-Mellon University. Dr. Elfes has over 100 publications in international journals, conferences and books, and has lectured extensively in North America Europe, Brazil and Japan. He is a recipient of the Mercator Professorship Award of the German Research Foundation DFG    


t t t t t t 26 26\ield values for apparent truth and apparent detections relative to the antenna and supports the calculation of 2 2 k D  Clustering and Centroiding Model Since energy from a target spreads into multiple range cells something must be done to combine detection primitives into a single measurement for each target.  Clustering selects detection primitives and centroiding combines clustered primitive data into a measurement.  The model presented here makes certain assumptions about the process that created the detection primitives.  For example, the model assumes a rectangular shaped ambiguity function cut and an exact c 2 f BW sampling interval.  Even with this simple detection model, closel y-spaced targets, false alarms and missed detections, clustering can be a challenge The simple model of clustering used for the simulated results first thresholds detection primitives based on the observed SNR R o culated by \(24\ to a threshold 27 Detectio n p r im itiv es th at rem ain  are clu s tered  an d  centroided based the number of consecutive range-cell indices occupied.  The simple clustering model considers three cases: a detection primitive with no range-cell-index neighbors, a pair of detecti on primitives with no neighbors except each other, and three or more consecutive range-cell indices.  These three cluster classes are shown in Figure 6 where they are named isolated pair, and CSO, respectively Centroiding treats each of th ese three cases differently Isolated Pair CSO Isolated Pair CSO  Figure 6 - Cluster cases For isolated clusters, the assumption of no additional information is used to produce a centroided measurement with values identical to the detection primitive.  Intuition about the uncertainty of an isolated cell seems to be at odds with this approach.  For example, if the SNR is high, the likelihood of the target being near the center of the range cell should also be high.  Th e assumption of no additional information seems to hold only when the cell\222s SNR is low and close to the detection threshold.  It turns out that 2 3 k D  can be used to examine algorith ms for the isolated-cell case and one of the examples looks at this problem CSO clusters violate the model assumption that target energy will spread to at most two consecutive range cells Thus, the cluster must contai n two or more closely-spaced targets or one target and a false alarm.  CSO clusters produce the same number of measurements as the number of detection primitives in the cluster and use values identical to the corresponding detection primitives.  Measurements from a CSO cluster are flagge d so that the tracker can differentiate between measurements from single-target clusters and CSO clusters.  Different rules govern how these measurements are used by th e tracker.  For example, the tracker may be allowed to in itiate and update a so-called CSO track with a CSO-cluster measurement but it may not be allowed to update a non-CSO track with a CSO-cluster measurement For pair clusters, the data in both detection primitives are used to produce a single centroided measurement and measurement variance.  The centroided measurement is simply the SNR weighted centroid of the two detection primitives expressed by \(27   1 2,,2,1,,1 2,,2,1,1 2,2,1,1 2,1     10            12 2 1 2 1  2 1 2 1  2 1 2 1      212 212 212  r r r r r r r+\r  adpy,oadp,yo adp,xoadp,,xo adp,oadp,o oo amy amx am k k k k R R k k R 27 27 The centroided variance is more involved because the same instrumentation noise is used for all detection primitives Subtracting the instrumentation noise variances from the antenna-relative detection primitives results in the same beam-relative variances used in \(26\roided standard deviations are calculated in \(28\Finally, \(29 adds in the instrumentation noise  r+\r r r r+\r r r r+\r r r  2,1 2 1 2,1 2 1 2,1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1    2 oo ko ko oo ko ko oo ko ko k k R bdp,y bdp,y bdp,x bdp,x bdpx bdp,x bmy bmx bm  resykyi resxkxi resRi k k R k k R kn kn Rn bdp,y bdp,x bdp adp,y adp,x adp  resykyi resxkxi resRi k k R k k R kn kn Rn bmy bmx bm amy amx am   Ukn Ukn URn k k R k k R resykyi resxkxi resRi bdp,y bdp,x bdp adp,y adp,x adp 25   2  2  2  2  22  2 2 2 2 2 2     t t t t t t t t t 28   2  2  2  2  22  2 2 2 2 2 2       t t t t t t 29 29\ield values for apparent truth and apparent clustered and centroided measurements relative to the antenna and supports the calculation of 2 3 k D    


017 32   00 0 0 00 2 2 2     T j k k R ji iamy iamx iam HHP S  212 212  11 Assignment and Filtering Turning off the effects and corrections due to sensorregistration bias and atmospheric refraction allows the consistency of the measurem ent-to-track assignment and track filtering algorithms to be studied.  The example results use the Jonker-Volgenant algorithm  t o  sol v e t h e global-nearest-neighbor assignment between centroided measurements and tracks.  Th e cost matrix {Ci,j}  is populated according to the rela tionships in \(30 33 j x 210 and j P are state estimate and covariance respectively for track j extra polated to the measurement time h 225\measurement function that transforms the state estimate into the measurement frame and H is a Jacobian matrix that transforms the track-state covariance into the measurement frame    016 212 30  017 006 016 212  S 31    jieji C   log  t t t 33 33\and processing the measurements with a standard extended Kalm   2 8 k D  4  N UMERICAL S IMULATION AND R ESULTS  A simulation model designed around the data-flow diagram shown in Figure 4 supports a variety of consistency investigations.  Some of these investigations were inspired by algorithm errors detected a nd correct with this technique Other investigations are open ended in that they point out places where further algorithm improvements are needed The results presented in the examples only consider random effects that vary from pulse to pulse or dwell to dwell.  If covariance consistency cannot be obtained at this scale, then there is little hope of getting it right over an ensemble of Monte Carlo trials The scenario used in the examples consists of an ESR Xband radar tracking an incoming ballistic target.  The target range relative to the radar varies from ~380 km to ~25 km The target\222s RCS is large enough so that waveform control maintains an SNR close to the goal SNR of 25 dB.  The target\222s mean RCS and percent scintillation changes as the aspect angle varies from ~50\260 to ~0.6\260 over its trajectory The sine-space azimuth is n early constant varying from 0.70 to ~0.56 at apogee to ~0 66.  The sine-space elevation varies over a wider range from ~-0.40 to ~0.11 at apogee to 0.07.  Under these conditions tracking error is fairly small so that the target is track ed near beam center.  One exception to beam-center track ing occurs in the first example where different values for beam-steering offsets are added on purpose Targets Away from Beam Center Consider the difference in Fi gure 7 between measurements that occur on or near beam center where the monopulse response is approximately linear versus measurements that occur closer to the edge where the monopulse response is curved.  The monopulse response transforms uncertainty in y I into uncertainty in DOA Near beam center a Gaussian uncertainty in y I results in a Gaussian uncertainty in DOA Closer to the edge, the monopulse response distorts y I 222s uncertainty so that the DOA\222s un certainty is both biased and no longer Gaussi  Unless some compensation is applied, it is expected that the covariance consistency will be better near the beam\222s center compared to the edge.  Indeed, plots of consistency versus distance from beam center in Fi gure 8 match expectations The order of plots from top to bottom and the legend order are the same.  A value equal to 1 is consistent while a value greater than 1 implies that th e reported covariance is smaller than the uncertainty in the data.  To generate these curves constant beam-point offsets of 0, 1%, 5%, 10%, and 12.5 of the 3dB beamwidth were added to the elevation direction of the nominal beam point.  A sliding window of 50 points was used to calculate the average 2 1 k D values plotted in the curves     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA     On Beam Center Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Non-Gaussian and Biased Off Beam Center y I DOA  Figure 7 - Measurements on the monopulse curve One notable feature of Figure 8 is the sensitivity.  There is fairly significant degradation at a modest 5% offset.  As  212 j iamy iamx iam ji T j iamy iamx iam ji k k R k k R xh Sxh 210 210    1     2   2    5.0exp 2 1 ji ji ji 


Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 12.5 50 350   10 0                   10 1  12 expected from Figure 7, the width of the uncertainty region is compressed by the curvature of the monopulse response resulting in a detection-primitive with greater uncertainty than the variance admits.  A filter lag or so-called cluster tracking can easily result in a 5% or greater offset and degraded consistency.  After 300 seconds the curves peak up because the target is appr oaching a low-elevation beampoint limit.  This occurs anytime a target is tracked into the edge of the radar\222s field of re gard and can lead to radar-toradar handover difficulty         300 300 80  s D 2 k,1 k y    s D 2 k,1 k y   100 150 200 250 10 1                    10 5 1 0  Figure 8 - Consistency versus distance from beam center Monopulse Mismatch The next set of curves plotted in Figure 9 show the sensitivity of detection-primitive consistency to a mismatch in the monopulse slope.  All of these curves were generated using a linear monopulse response derived from the slope of the true monopulse response at beam center.  The slope of the 80% curve is 0.8 times th e beam-center slope; the 90 curve is 0.9 times the beam-center slope; and so on for 100%, 110% and 120%.  Again, the order of curves in the graph is the same as the legend order A steep slope tends to expand y I 222s uncertainty while a gentle slope tends to compress it.  An expanded uncertainty leads to a smaller consistency while a compressed uncertainty leads to a larger consistency.  This behavior can be observed in the family of curves in Figure 9.  Curves for the steeper slopes are on the botto m while curves for more gentle slopes are on top.  The notable feature of this set of curves is that the sensitivity to a mismatch in the monopulse slope is not very significant       100 150 200 250 10 1                    90 100 110 120  Figure 9 - Consistency versus monopulse mismatch Range-Bias Error The complex nature of the monopulse radar models presents ample opportunity to introduce errors in the software implementation.  One such e rror introduced in a \275 rangecell-width bias in the detection-primitive range which in turn resulted in a significant degradation to 2 9 k D The fact that 2 9 k D is measured in different coordinates compared to the bias made it difficult to determine which value or algorithm was to blame.  Examining the intermediate consistency values led directly to the error source A comparison between biased 2 1 k D  2 2 k D and 2 3 k D values and unbiased 2 2 k D values is shown in Figure 10.  The unbiased 2 2 k D is the bottom-most curve and the biased 2 3 k D is the top-most curve with a value around 80.  This large value for 2 3 k D indicates that there is a lot more uncertainty in the range measur ements compared to what is predicted by the range varian ce.  Since the range-variance calculation is easy to confirm, the problem must be in the algorithms that model or manipulate range A notable feature of Figure 10 is the sensitivity of the centroiding algorithm to range bias in the detection primitives.  The range bias is ba rely noticeable in the biased 2 1 k D and 2 2 k D curves.  Of course, if the unbiased 2 2 k D  curve existed as a baseline it would be relatively easy to spot the error 


Time Time Time 50 350   10 0                   10 1                   10 2 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1 50 350   10 0                   10 1  13         Isolated No SNR Adjust  Figure 11 - Centroiding for isolated range cells Filter Tuning Now that the centroided m easurements are reasonably consistent, the parameters that govern track filtering can be examined.  As previously promised, the effects and corrections for atmospheric refr action and sensor bias have been disabled so that 2 8 k D can be analyzed using a sliding window.  Of course the full analysis would include these effects and 2 8 k D at each time step would be collected and averaged over many trials Plots of the effect of changing process noise in a nearlyconstant-velocity filter are shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for Cartesian position and velocity respectively.  In both figures, the plotted values have been divided by 3 so that the desired value is always 1.  Increasing the process noise up to a point should increase the updated uncertainty and reduce 2 8 k D values.  Except near th e end of the trajectory when the measurements are off of beam center, the curves in Figure 12 and Figure 13 appear inconclusive for this expected trend If 2 8 k D values are way out of range there are additional intermediate filter values that can be examined.  For example, the state extrapolati on algorithms can be examined by comparing the consistency of 1 210 Isolated With SNR Adjust 300 300 300 0.005 212 212 212 212 212 kkkk T kkkk D xhzSxhz 35        s D 2 k Range   D 2 k,2 biased D 2 k,1 biased D 2 k,2  Figure 10 - Range bias error in detection primitive Centroiding Algorithm From Section 3, assuming that the centroided-range uncertainty for an isolated range cell is the same as its detection-primitive uncertainty may be incorrect Collecting and plotting 2 3 k D values only from isolated range-cell measurements can be used to analyze such assumptions.  The plots in Figure 11 compare differences between the isolated-cell algorithm defined in Section 3, an algorithm that modifies the uncertainty based on the SNR in the isolated cell, and the 2 3 k D values from all measurements 34\was used to modify the range uncertainty for the upper line labeled Isolated with SNR Adjust    4 22  2 2  resRi o R R Rn bdp bm  s D 2 k,3 Range    s D 2 k,8 Position     212 1 can also be examined using \(35 The residual is also commonly used to determine the assignment cost  212 kk z  P  k  k1 with z k The consistency of the innovation covariance k T kkkkk RHPHS 100 150 200 250 10 1                    D 2 k,3 biased 100 150 200 250 10 2                    100 150 200 250 10 1                    0.5 50  Figure 12 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example  r  t t 34 If the All Centroided curve \(middle\as the baseline doing nothing \(lower\imates the uncertainty and 33\imates the uncertainty.  Dividing by the square root of the observed SNR leads to a more consistent covariance; however, there is currently no statistical evaluation to justify it             210 210 1 1 1 2 All Centroided 


Time 50 350   10 1                   10 0                   10 1  14         300 0.005  s D 2 k,8 Velocity   100 150 200 250 10 2                    0.5 50  Figure 13 \226 Position consistency, filter tuning example 5  C ONCLUSION  Calculating and observing the behavior of covariance consistency at different levels  in the radar signal processing chain represents a very powerfu l tool that can be used to assess the accuracy and softwa re implementation of radar signal-processing algorithms.  Analyzing covariance consistency is applicable to radar systems both in the field and in simulations.  The primary challenge in both arenas comes down to properly accounting for the true target states that contribute to detections, detection primitives measurements, and state estimates For a fielded radar syst em, achieving covariance consistency is usually a s econdary consideration behind achieving and maintaining track s.  Indeed, until recently radar specifications did not even include requirements for covariance consistency.  Recent covariance consistency requirements stem from the fact that the use of radar systems in sensor netting applications is on the rise Currently the combined e ffects of off-beam-center measurements, atmospheric correction, bias correction clustering and centrioding, data association, and filtering on state covariance consistency throughout a target\222s trajectory are not well known.  This is particularly true for radars using wideband waveforms and multiple hypotheses or multiple frame trackers.  Numerical results presented here indicate that algorithms early in the radar signal processing chain can significantly degrad e covariance consistency and that some errors are better tolerated than others For a simulated target in a modeled system, truth relative to some global reference is known. However, transforming truth through different refere nce frames and accounting for changes that occur during various radar processing algorithms is not as simple as it appears.  The techniques in this paper help expose this hidden complexity and provide a framework for discussing and expanding the future development of covariance consistency techniques.  Such future developments include issues related to mapping truth through the convolution operation typically used to simulate wideband signal processing and the fast Fourier transforms typically used in pulse-Doppler processing.  Sophisticated tracking algorithms that carry multiple hypotheses, associate across multiple frames, or weight the association of multiple targets within a single frame pose significant challenges in properly associating truth with state estimates.  Additional work, including an investigation of track-to-truth assignment, is needed before covariance consistency techniques can be applied to these algorithms Another area that needs furthe r analysis is the use of a sliding window to approximate the covariance behavior expected during a set of Monte-Carlo trials.  Various timedependent variables such as the target\222s range and orientation, the transmit waveform, the radar\222s antenna patterns toward the target, missed detections, and false alarms could easily viol ate the assumption that measurement conditions are nearly stationary over the time of the window.  It is importa nt to understand the conditions when this assumption is violated Finally, the examples presented here included a relatively benign arrangement of targets.  Further analysis in dense target environments with the related increase in merged detections, merged measurements, and impure tracks is needed.  Further analysis for targets traveling over different trajectories is also needed Even so, the techniques presented here can be extended to many of these analyses R EFERENCES  1  S. Blackman and R. Popoli Design and Analysis of Modern Tracking Systems Artech House, 1999 2  Y. Bar-Shalom and X. R. Li Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking: Principles and  Techniques YBS Publishing, Storrs, CT, 1995 3  Y. Bar-Shalom, Editor Multi-target-Multi-sensor Tracking: Advanced Applications and  Vol. I Artech House, Norwood, MA, 1990 4  D. B. Reid, \223An Algorithm for Tracking Multiple Targets,\224 IEEE Trans. on Automatic Control Vol. 24 pp. 843-854, December 1979 5  T. Kurien, \223Issues in the Design of Practical Multitarget Tracking Algorithms,\224 in Multitarget-Multisensor Tracking Y. Bar-Shalom \(ed.\43-83, Artech House, 1990 6  R.P.S. Mahler, Statistical Multisource-Multitarget Information Fusion, Artech House, 2007 


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


