MDA-based Modeling and Implementation of E-Commerce Web Applications in WebML Guotao Zhuang College of Information Science & Technology Qingdao University of Science & Technology Qingdao, China ZhuangGuotao@qust.edu.cn Junwei Du College of Information Science & Technology Qingdao University of Science & Technology Qingdao, China Dujunwei@qust.edu.cn   Abstract Nowadays E-commerce is one of the most important applications on the Internet. Since E-commerce is a dataintense and complex business processes web application, its development and maintaining is one big challenge. In this 
paper, we experience a high level modeling method in WebML base on MDA to implement a simplified E-commerce web application which is a PC online shopping. The experimental results show this development method can effectively simplify the development processing and maintenance with less time and cost Keywords- E-Commerce; MDA; WebML; Modeling; code generation I   INTRODUCTION In the last two decades, web applications are rapidly growing with the popularity of Internet. Early web applications are usually used to publish some simple and static information based on simply static language like 
HTML. Modern Web applications are more and more used to implement some applications with huge data and complex logic processes by a set of complex dynamic languages and architectures like JSP, J2EE, AJAX and so on. E-Commerce is currently one of the most important aspects of modern web applications. E-Commerce lets people purchase goods and exchange information on business transactions online [4   I t  gives companies improved efficiency and reliability of business processes through transaction automation, and also attracts a very large number of users by allowing them to electronically exchange goods and services with no barriers of time or distance 
Designing and development of E-commerce web application is a big engineering. This type of project involves many complex business processes and various different technologies. Each of these technologies makes a designing process more complex. This also causes problems with later maintenance of the applicati  A i m i ng a t t h i s  pr ob l e m the Object Management Group \(OMG\s proposed an approach to using model in software development known as Model Driven Architecture \(MDA\1  It im plem en ts t o  separating the specification of the operation of a system from the details of the way that system uses the capabilities of its 
platform through Platform Independent Model \(PIM\sign and Platform Specific Model \(PSM\sign, and automatically generate executable code with model transformation. The three primary goals of MDA are portability, interoperability and reusability through architectural separation of concerns [1  In th e c o n t ex t o f  web engineering, there are many approaches which conform to the MDA like WebML[1, 5, 6, 9, 10 W E[1 5  WSDM[16  et c S i nce  E C o mm e r c e w e b ap pl i c a t io n co nt ai n  the huge data and complex logic, WebML is the best suitable approach, because the original goal of WebML was to support the design and implementation of so-called data 
intensive web applications [6  W e b M L pr ov i d e dev e l o p e r a  high level modeling method to divide the whole designing process into few orthogonal dimensions: Data Model Hypertext Model and Presentation Model in web applications development, and finally generate executable code by CASE tool known as WebRatio[6  I t can  efficiently short the cost and improve the development speed and maintainability In this paper, we introduce the design method and process for E-Commerce web application based on MDA and WebML. We experiment the development process by a case use which is to modeling and implement a simplified ECommerce web application, which is a PC online shopping 
like Dell in WebRatio II  MDA  AND  WEBML A  Model Driven Architecture \(MDA MDA is an approach to using models in software development. It supports the model design, store and transformation, and finally automatic generate the usable source code. Its core thinking is to analysis business process and design the related model, and then abstract the model to build a platform-independent model \(PIM, in general, PIM is defined according to the semantics of a model of models also called a meta-model.\ finally transfer the PIM to one or more platform-specific models \(PSMs\ that computers 
can run. The three primary goals of MDA are portability interoperability and reusability through architectural separation of concerns  B  The Web Modeling Language \(WebML WebML is a third-generation Web design methodology base on MDA. It is a conceptual language aimed at supporting all the activities and perspectives of Web applications design, especially data-intensive and processcentric web application. According to the MVC framework WebML model is divided into Data Model, Hypertext Model 
2009 Second International Workshop on Computer Science and Engineering 978-0-7695-3881-5/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/WCSE.2009.239 1112 
2009 Second International Workshop on Computer Science and Engineering 978-0-7695-3881-5/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/WCSE.2009.239 507 
2009 Second International Workshop on Computer Science and Engineering 978-0-7695-3881-5/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/WCSE.2009.863 507 


and Presentation Model. Figure 1 shows the architecture of the WebML   The Data Model describes the conceptual data organization according to the Entity-Relationship Model   The Hypertext Model enables the specification of the front-end of web applications   The Presentation Model extends the hypertext model with simple constructs such as operations and transactions, enabling the invocation of predefined operations  III  E-COMMERCE  WEB  APPLICATIONS  DESIGN  IN  WEBML In this section, we describe our experimental use case design processing about using model-driven develop to implement an E-Commerce web application in WebML. We focus on the business processes design of this web application which contains data modeling and hypertext modeling A  Requirement Analysis This use case is a personal computer online shopping. It supports new users can register an account and login the system. There are two types of user: customers and administrators. Aiming to the different users, the system provides the relevant functions  1 For Customer: Customers can search for computers fulfilling the certain criteria, add the results to a shopping cart, and finally pay for the items in the shopping cart to create the relevant order, and further more customer can check the pending order to decide if he would cancel the pending order 2 For Administrator: Administrators can manage the order information Based on the above analysis, we design the whole system with nine function modules. They are New User Register Module, Login Module, Order Management Module, Cancel Order Module, Search Module, Catalog Module, Shopping Cart Module, Payment Module and Logout Module. Figure 2 shows the structure of the PC online shopping  B  Data Modeling Data design is the most important foundation of the web application. WebML supports graphical data modeling based on Entity/Relationship \(E/R\ model. Figure 3 shows the graphic representation of the data model, describing data underlying the web application for the PC online shopping User contains the account information, and is classified into customers and administrator by Group. Module controls the visiting scope of the different Group. Each User is connected to many order_db which contains the order information Each order_db is also connected to many products which contains the product information. The product can be retrieval by the certain criteria. Cart is used to memory the cart information  Figure 3. The data model of the PC online shopping  Figure 2. The data structure of the PC online shopping   Figure 1. The architecture of the WebML 
1113 
508 
508 


C  Hypertext Modeling Hypertext model aims at defining the hypertext topology of the web application. We respectively design hypertext model for nine function modules, and then connect them to compose the whole hypertext model for the web application of the PC online shopping. In this section we provide the hypertext model of the Shopping Cart Module to describe the hypertext modeling method  Figure 4 shows the hypertext model of shopping cart module in WebML. Customers view the PC goods information represented by Product detail DataUnit in the Product detail Page. After customers choose this goods, the goods will be added into the cart data table by AddToCart AddUnit, and then follow the OKLink \(green link\ to Cart Content Page which will display the selected goods in cart data table by Cart details MultiDataUnit. We can clear goods from shopping cart by EmptyCart DeleteUnit. If the result of empty cart operation is success, the response will follow the OKLink \(green link\o Cart Content Page, otherwise the response will follow the KOLink \(red link\ to Cart Content Page D  WebML Syntax and Code Generation The data model and hypertext model will be stored in a single formal XML file based on WebML syntax, for example, Figure 5 shows the XML code of the EmptyCart DeleteUnit  Figure 5. The hypertext model of Shopping Cart Module  The WebRatio \(the CASE tool of WebML\ will automatically generate the database by Web Model and the executable source code of Web applications conform to Struts framework by Hypertext Model. Figure 6 shows the screenshot of the Product Index Page  IV  CONCLUSION This paper has illustrated the modeling and implementation method of the E-Commerce web application based on MDA in WebML. E-Commerce web applications are abstracted to the formal platform-independent model specified in WebML, and automatically generated by WebRatio. When the system need be maintained, we only need modify the model. For that reason, this method can effectively short development lifecycle and increase maintainability A CKNOWLEDGMENT  This work has been supported by National Science Foundation of China \(No. 60802042 R EFERENCES  1  S. Ceri, P. Fraternali, M. Matera: "Conceptual Modeling of DataIntensive Web Applications". IEEE Internet Computing, Vol. 6 , No 4 \(July-August 2002\ pp. 20-30 2  R. Acerbis, A. Bongio, M. Brambilla, M. Tisi, S. Ceri, E. Tosetti Developing eBusiness Solutions with a Model Driven Approach The Case of Acer EMEA". Industrial paper at 7th International Conference on Web Engineering, ICWE 2007, Como, Italy. Springer LNCS 4607, ISBN 978-3-540-73596-0, pp. 539-544 3  Hans Albrecht Schmid, Gustavo Rossi, Modeling and Designing Processes in E-Commerce Applications, IEEE Internet Computing Vol. 8- 1, January 2004 4  Simon S.Y. Shim ,  Vishnu S. Pendyala ,  Meera Sundaram ,  Jerry Z Gao, Business-to-Business E-Commerce Frameworks, IEEE Computer Society, ISSN:0018-9162, October 2000  Figure 4. The hypertext model of Shopping Cart Module  Figure 6. The screenshot of Product Index Page  DeleteUnit x mlns:gr="http://www.we bratio.com/2006/WebML/Graph" gr:x="447 g r:y="1897" id="dlu1" name="EmptyCart" entity="ent4 Selector id="su9" defaultPolicy="fill booleanOperator="and KeyCondition id="kcond2" name="KeyCondition2 p redicate="in" implied="false Selector OKLink id="oln8" name="OKLink8" to="page7 automaticCoupling="true KOLink id="kln3" name="KOLink3" to="page7 automaticCoupling="true" gr:bendpoints="-84,16,95,12 DeleteUnit  
1114 
509 
509 


5  Ceri, S., Fraternali, P., Bongio, A., Brambilla, M., Comai, S., and Matera, M., 2002, Designing Data-Intensive Web Applications Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco 6  M. Brambilla, S. Comai, P. Fraternali, M. Matera. "Designing Web Applications with WebML and WebRatio". In book: G. Rossi, O Pastor, D. Schwabe, L. Olsina \(Eds.\. Web Engineering: Modelling and Implementing Web Applications \(Human-Computer Interaction Series\ Springer, October 2007, ISBN: 978-1846289224 7  R. Acerbis, A. Bongio, M. Brambilla, S. Butti. "WebRatio 5: An Eclipse-Based CASE Tool for Engineering Web Applications Demonstration at 7th International Conference on Web Engineering ICWE 2007, Como, Italy. Springer LNCS 4607, ISBN 978-3-54073596-0, pp. 501-505 8  Mohamed Taleb, Ahmed Seffah and Alain Abran, Model-Driven Architecture for Web Applications, Human-Computer Interaction Interaction Design and Usability, 2007 9  W odzimierz D browski, Tomasz Czwarno and Szymon Merklejn Design Intelligent Web Applications Using Web Modelling Language WebML\,  Intelligent Media Technology for Communicative Intelligence, 2005   S. Ceri, P. Fraternali, and A. Bongio, Web Modeling Language WebML\ a Modeling Language for Designing Web Sites, Computer Networks, Vol. 33, 2000, pp. 137-157 \(also in Proc. of WWW9 Conference, Amsterdam, May 2000   Mariano Belaunde, ect. MDA Guide Version 1.0.1 , Object Management Group, 2003   Soley, R.: Model Drivern Architecture, Object Management Group 2000   Meservy, T.O., Fensternacher, K.D.: Transforming Software Development: An MDA Road Map. IEEE Computer 38\(8\, 52–58 2005   Kwei-Jay Lin, E-Commerce Technology: Back to a Prominent Future IEEE Internet Computing , Vol. 12- 1, January 2008   N. Koch. Software Engineering for Adaptive Hypermedia Applications. PhD thesis,Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich Germany, 2000   O. De Troyer and C. Leune. WSDM: A User-centered Design Method for Web sites. In World Wide Web Conference, 7th International Conference, WWW'97, pages 85,94,1997    
1115 
510 
510 


produce a shared understanding about the potential development outcomes described by the microentrepreneurs During the coding and analysis phase of the study the researchers attempted to reconcile different viewpoints with respect to the coding constructs themselves. This resulted in a conceptual linkage among specific potential IT for development outcomes and micro-entrepreneurs belonging to certain Technology attitude groups Qureshi et al T h e following two sections describe and help explain the results obtained  4. Results  The results from the coding of the focus group session are shown in Table 2. The numbers represent the occurrence frequency of comments related to the potential development outcomes   Access to New Markets Administra tive Efficiencies Access to Informat ion Knowled ge Producti vity MC MarketA ccess AdminEf InfoAcce ss Producti vity JB 2 0 1 1 DJ 1 1 1 2 MA 1 3 2 3 JP 5 2 5 3 KS 1 1 1 2 MF 5 4 5 6 LM 4 2 2 3 JJ 1 2 3 0 FH 2 1 1 2 BG 3 1 2 1 Total 25 17 23 23 Table 3: Coding Results for Development Outcomes  The raw frequency data are shown in a series of tables \(Tables 3, 4, & 5\g the ratios of the frequencies to each other, categorized along the three attitude groups Positive limited, Positive specific and Positive Holistic - as developed in \(Qureshi et al  T h es e ratios portray th e r e lativ e e m ph a s es t h at t h e  different attitude groups place on specific outcomes  Positive Limited \(Envisioned Outcome Percentages  MarketAcce ss Admin Ef InfoAcce ss Productivit y DJ 20% 20% 20% 40 K S 20% 20% 20% 40 Table 4 The ratios show a tendency for micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive limited technology attitude group to focus on Productivity gains associated with technology adoption   Positive Specific \(Envisioned Outcome Percentages MarketAcce ss Admin Ef InfoAcce ss Productivi ty JB 50 0% 25 25 M A 11 33 22 33 BG 43 14% 29 14 Table 5  The Positive Specific technology attitude group ratios show a tendency for micro-entrepreneurs to view Market Access and Information Access as the most beneficial outcomes of technology adoption   Positive Holistic \(Envisioned Outcome Percentages MarketAcce ss Admin Ef InfoAcce ss Productivi ty JP 33 13 33 20 M F 25% 20% 25% 30 JJ 17% 33 50 0 FH 33 17% 17 33 Table 6  These ratios indicate that micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive Holistic technology attitude group are generally positive about technology and share a broad appreciation for the potential of technology to support business in different ways The following analysis section provides detailed explanation of the results  5. Analysis  The ratios of development outcome expectations Tables 4, 5, and 6\eem to indicate that the technology attitude groups describe by Qureshi et al 29 ha ve d i ffe r e nt e x p e c t a t i o ns a b o u t  w h a t t e c h no l o g y  can add to a business. Conceptually, this may be related to their level of experience. Members of the Positive Limited technology attitude group have seen computers performing routine tasks, but have little understanding of the knowledge capabilities associated with the World Wide Web, for instance. Members of the Positive Specific technology attitude group, have used computers for certain tasks, but may lack training or awareness of other potential uses of IT. Members of Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 5 


the Positive Holistic technology attitude group may have a broad appreciation of IT, but lack specific knowledge and resources necessary to fully integrate IT into their businesses. To clarify how these connections arose from the transcript of the focus group, we have assembled quotes in the following subsections from the session drawn from microentrepreneurs that fall within each of the technology attitude groups. This also leads to the development of conjectures on the basis of which these groupings are connected to the development outcomes investigated in this paper. Figure 1 below shows the links between the technology attitude groups and development outcomes   Figure 1. Conceptual model  The following subsections illustrate through quotes from the focus group session transcript the attitudes for each of the groups  Positive Limited This quote represents the attitude of microentrepreneurs in this group  DJ I am sure I could utilize [book-keeping software  more Development outcome: Productivity Conjecture 1 \(Low Enthusiasm Micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive Limited technology attitude group tend to have low enthusiasm for technology and to perceive limited potential development outcomes associated with it. These micro-entrepreneurs associate technology use with basic productivity gains. A possible reason may be that they do not understand the potential for the Internet to inform their business decisions as well as open up new markets. A productive intervention for these micro-entrepreneurs might be to provide them with such awareness via a class or seminar  Positive Specific The following quotes represent the attitude of microentrepreneurs in this group  JB We do business all over the world with our website Development outcome: Market Access  MA 90 [different s u p p lies ar e or der e d thr ough  Internet suppliers Development outcome Information Access  Conjecture 2 \(Mild to moderate enthusiasm Microentrepreneurs in the Positive Specific technology attitude group tend to have mild to moderate enthusiasm for specific development outcomes. These micro-entrepreneurs have specialized interest areas where they believe that technology can assist them Market access is the most important goal for this group, followed closely by the goals of Information Access and Productivity. These business owners may have a greater appreciation for technology s applications than members of the Positive Limited technology attitude group, but they would still benefit from an awareness class/seminar  Positive Holistic The following quote represents the attitude of microentrepreneurs in this group  JJ Was always interested in computers, farm record keeping in Excel spreadsheet Development outcome Administrative Efficiency  JP we have [created l i n ks on our w e bs i t e   as f a r as resources places lodging, local florist, cemeteries names of churches Development outcome: Market Access  MF We have helped with Medicare insurance plan searching for seniors Development outcome Information Access  FH Want to use tech to advance education of students Development outcome: Productivity  Conjecture 3 \(Broad Enthusiasm Microentrepreneurs in the Positive Holistic technology attitude group tend to show a broad enthusiasm for development outcomes, though they may lack the knowledge and resources necessary to fully integrate IT into their businesses. A meaningful intervention for  Technology Attitude Groups Positive S p ecific Positive Holistic Positive Limited IT for Development Market Access Productivity Information Access Administrative Efficiencies Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 6 


this group of business owners might be to nurture and sustain their interest in IT while providing them with resources to incorporate IT into their businesses Wolcott et al. [45 d e sc r i be  a n in no va t i ve p r o c e ss o f  IT Therapy as a means to help micro-enterprises adopt IT  The above analysis of the three attitude groups illustrates how interventions can be applied to microenterprises. An understanding of technology attitude groups may facilitate interventions to aid these groups in overcoming IT hurdles and moving to the next stage of growth and development It appears that different Technology attitude groups Qureshi et al a v e diff eren t un ders tan d i n gs of capabilities of technology. For example, some business owners with limited exposure to technology see it only as a productivity aid, whereas others with more exposure see IT as a means to enter new markets Despite the differences in micro-entrepreneurs  understanding of how IT may benefit their businesses they all seem to converge on the notion that using IT in some way will help their business. Our analysis seems to suggest a conceptual model that depicts the behavior expressed by our set of rural micro-enterprises as related to IT adoption and potential development outcomes \(figure 1 Figure 1 shows that there is a relationship between a micro-entrepreneur s attitude towards IT and development outcomes that might arise within his/her business as a result of IT adoption. However the extent to which the development outcomes are achieved for the technology adoption groups is illustrated in the arrows that link these groups to the specific development outcomes. Micro-entrepreneurs in the Positive specific category tend to benefit more from new market access and would be adopters of websites for example. Micro-entrepreneurs in the positive holistic category would tend to benefit more from technologies that enable information to be accessed such as the use of search engines and portals. The micro-entrepreneurs in the positive limited category would benefit from IT to achieve productivity gains such as through software for bookkeeping    It is important to emphasize here that although we posit a relationship between our technology attitude group construct and our development construct, we have not drawn conclusions as to the direction of the relationship between the two in our conceptual model In other words, it is yet to be investigated whether adoption attitudes lead to IT adoption and bring about business development, or whether perceived business development outcomes foster changes in attitude While the causality is uncertain, the characteristics of these businesses nonetheless lend themselves to certain conjectures about what kinds of interventions may be helpful to grow these very small businesses in the future. As it turns out, these characteristics tend to suggest that rural micro-entrepreneurs may be most effective in growing businesses if they gain a broad perspective on technology. The extent of technology knowledge within each technology attitude group seems to be associated with specific development outcomes, with the breadth of envisioned outcomes increasing alongside the knowledge   6. Implications for micro-enterprise growth  Our analysis leads us to suggest a number of implications and guidelines to help address microenterprises needs in terms of IT adoption and bringing about business growth One such guideline would be to make provisions through local universities or non-profit organizations to provide seminars for micro-enterprises to increase their awareness towards IT and show them how technology can help their business Our results suggest \(Table 3\at there was a strong consensus that the micro-enterprises needed to reach new markets. A potential guideline here would be to make business owners aware that the Internet is highly collaborative in nature and that they can use Internet technology build partnerships with other businesses to accrue many benefits. This would help these small businesses enhance their market reach to potential customers through business-to-business collaborations over the Internet The other large problem perceived by the microentrepreneurs was a lack of time. This might be addressed by a technology intervention involving the creation of a common technology platform to create administrative efficiencies for these businesses for bread and butter business tasks like accounting. The business owners could be referred to community college and/or regular college training classes to train on said platform   7. Limitations   It is important to point out that although the current study makes a significant contribution through the discovery of the connection between IT adoption categories and development outcomes of microProceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 7 


enterprises, the researchers do not however claim that the categories of IT adoption or of development outcomes are exhaustive. The applicability of the constructs is constrained by the sample size available and the inductive process used to evaluate the sample Despite this limitation, it is also important to note that the methodology used in this study is qualitative in nature and bottom up. In other words, the results and analysis is very strongly tied to the data and the conclusions have been derived bottom-up from the data. As per Straus e coding proces s us ed  in the study allows the researchers to apply their theoretical sensitivity to make sense of the data. Future focus groups may reveal other adoption categories. But as for the IT adoption categories discovered and developed in this current study, they are heavily rooted in the data and represent the actual context from which they were extracted   8. Conclusion  Micro-enterprises are crucial contributors to the economy, both in developed as well as in developing countries. Nonetheless, research has shown that they are often ill-adapted to the technological demands of the modern economy. In this study we used inductive reasoning, coding and classification to expand upon earlier research by Qureshi et al. [2 at pu t m i croentrepreneurs into technology attitude groups. We tied these attitude groups into a conceptual model of development outcome expectations, concluding that most of the entrepreneurs had limited and specific expectations concordant with their previous limited and specific technology exposure. Finally, we made some conjectures about the kinds of interventions that would be most suitable for these entrepreneurs. Future research will focus on testing and clarifying both the aforementioned technology attitude groups and the model tying the groups to specific outcome expectations. The hope is that a robust model will facilitate successful and sustained technology interventions in the future  9. References  1  Ajzen, I The theory of planned behavior  Organization Behavior and Human Decision Processes  50\. pp 179-211. 1991 2  Ajzen, I. and Fishbein, M. "Attitudes and Normative Beliefs as factors Influencing Behavioral Intentions Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. \(21:1\ pp 1-9. 1972 3  Baark, E., and Heeks, R Evaluation of Donor-Funded Information Technology Transfer Projects in China: A Life-Cycle Approach Retrieved Dec 12, 2007, from http://idpm.man.ac.uk/wp/di/di_wp01.htm. 1998  4  Barton, C., and Bear, M Information and Communications Technologies: Are they the Key to Viable Business Development Services for Micro and Small Enterprises? Report for USAID as part of the Microenterprise Best Practices Project Retrieved December 12, 2007, from http://www.mip.org/PUBS/MBP/ict.htm 1999 5  Braa, J. Monteiro, E. and Sahay, S Networks of Action: Sustainable Health Information Systems across Developing Countries  MIS Quarterly 28:3 Minneapolis: Sep 2004, pp. 337-363 6  Cecchini, S. and Scott, C Can information and communications technology applications contribute to poverty reduction? Lessons from rural India  Information Technology for Development 10:2\, 2003 pp.73-85 7  Chudnovsky D. and Lopez, A The Software and Services Sector in Argentina: the pros and cons of an inward-oriented development strategy  Information  Technology for Development 11:1\, 2005 8  Compeau, D. and Higgens, C Computer self-efficacy Development of a measure and initial test  MIS Quarterly 13:3\.  pp 319-339. 1995 9  Davis, F. D. "Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, and User Acceptance of Information Technology  MIS Quarterly 13:3\1989, pp 319-339  10  Grosh, B. and Somolekae, G. "Mighty oaks from little acorns: Can micro-enterprise serve as the seedbed of industrialization World Development Vol 24 No 12 pp.1879-90, 1996 11  Hawk, S. and McHenry, W The Maturation of the Russian Offshore Software Industry  Information  Technology for Development 11:1\, 2005 12  Hazan, M Virtual South: E-Commerce for unprivileged artisans Retrieved Dec 12, 2007, from http://www.iicd.org/stories 2002 13  Honig, B. "What determines success? Examining the human, financial, and social capital of Jamaican microentrepreneurs Journal of Business Venturing  13:5\, pp.371-94, 1998 14  Hyman, E.L. and Dearden, K. "Comprehensive impact assessment systems for NGO microenterprise development programs World  Development 26:2\ pp 261-276, 1998 15  Kenny, C.J Expanding Internet access to the rural poor in Africa  Information Technology for Development  9:1\, 2000, pp. 25-32 16  Kimaro, H. and Nhampossa, J.L Analysing the Problem of Unsustainable Health Information Systems in low Income Countries: Case Studies from Tanzania and Mozambique  Information Technology for  Development 11:3\, 2005, pp. 273-298 17  Klein, H.K, and Myers, M.D A Set of Principles for Conducting and Evaluating Interpretive Field Studies in Information Systems  MIS Quarterly Vol. 23, No. 1 pp. 67 94. March 1999 Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


18  Latchem. C. & Walker, D Telecentres: Case Studies and Key Issues Vancouver: The Commonwealth of Learning. 2001 19  Lichtenstein, G.A. and Lyons, T.S. "The entrepreneurial development system: Transforming business talent and community economies Economic Development Quarterly 15:1\, 2001, pp.3-20 20  Mansell, R., & Wehn, U Knowledge Societies Information Technology for Sustainable Development  Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1998 21  Moore, G. and Benbasat, I Development of an instrument to measure the perceptions of adopting an information technology innovation Information Systems Research, \(2:3\ 192-222. 1991  22  Mosse E. L. and Sahay, S The Role of Communication Practices in the Strengthening of Counter Networks Case Experiences from the Health sector of Mozambique  Information Technology for  Development 11:3\, 2005 23  Nidumolu, S., Goodman, S., Vogel, D., and Danowitz A Information Technology for Local Administration Support: 1996 24  O'Farrell, C., Norrish, P., & Scott, A Information and Communication Technologies \(ICTs\ for Sustainable Livelihoods Burton Hall: Intermediate Technology Development Group. 1999 25  Owen, W., and Darkwa, O Role of Multipurpose Community Telecentres in Accelerating National Development in Ghana First Monday, Vol 5 No 1, pp 1-23, 1999 26  Piscitello, L., and Sgobbi, F Globalisation, E-Business and SMEs: Evidence from the Italian District of Prato  Small Business Economics Vol. 22, No. 5, June 2004 pg. 333 27  Preis-Heje, J., Baskerville, R. and Hansen, G Strategy Models for Enabling Offshore Outsourcing: Russian Short-Cycle-Time Software Development  Information Technology for Development 11:1\, 2005 28  Qiang CZ, Clarke GR, Halewood N. The Role of ICT In Doing Business Information and Communications for Development Global Trends and Policies, World Bank ed\orld Bank: Washington DC, 2006 29  Qureshi, S., Kamal, M  and Good, T.G Adoption of Information Technology by Micro-enterprises: Insights from a rural community  Proceedings of the 14th Annual Americas Conference on Information Systems AMCIS-14 Toronto, Canada. 2008 30  Qureshi, S., Kamal, M., and Wolcott, P Sustainability of Information Technology Therapy on Micro-enterprise Development HICSS. 2008 31  Qureshi, S How does Information technology effect Development? Integrating Theory and Practice into a Process Model  Proceedings of the eleventh Americas Conference on Information Systems Omaha, NE. 2005 32  Qureshi, S Fostering Associations in Africa through Networking  Information Infrastructure and Policy 1998, pp. 1-13 33  Raymond L, Bergeron F, Blili S. The assimilation of Ebusiness in manufacturing SMEs: determinants and effects on growth and internationalization. Electronic Markets 15\(2\: 106 118. 2005 34  Rodrigo, M. M. T Tradition or transformation? An evaluation of ICTs in Metro Manila schools  Information Technology for Development 10:2\, 2003 pp. 95-123 35  Rodrigues, A.J. and Govinda, S Towards an integrated management information system: A case of the University of Mauritius  Information Technology for  Development 10:1\, 2003, pp. 41-57 36  Sanders, C.K. "The impact of micro-enterprise assistance programs: A comparative study of program participants, non participants, and other low-wage workers," Social Service Review, \(76:2\.321-40 2002 37  Scheepers, H. and de Villiers, C Teaching of a computer literacy course in South Africa: A case study using traditional and co-operative learning  Information  Technology for Development 9:3\2000, pp. 175-188 38  Schreiner, M., & Woller, G Micro-enterprise Development Programs in the United States and in the Developing World  World Development 31:9\, pp 1567-1580, 2003 39  Southwood R. ICTs and Small Enterprise: A Motor of Economic Development in Africa, IICD Research Briefs, IICD, The Hague: IICD Research Briefs 9. 2004 40  Steinberg, J Information Technology and Development Beyond Either/Or  The Brookings Review 21\(2\:45-48. 2003 41  Tan F. and Leewongcharoen, K IT Industry Success In A Developing Country: The Case Of Thailand  Journal  of Information Technology for Development 11:2 2005 42  Thompson, R., Higgins, C. and Howell, J Personal computing:  Toward a conceptual model of utilization  MIS Quarterly 15:1\4-143. 1991  43  Venkatesh, V., Morris, M., Davis, G. and F. Davis User Acceptance of Information Technology: Toward a Unified View MIS Quarterly 27:3\ pp 425-478 2003  44  Walsham, G. and Sahay, S GIS for district-level administration in India: Problems and opportunities  MIS Quarterly 23:1\, 1999, pp. 39-65  45  Wolcott, P., Qureshi, S. and Kamal, M. "An Information Technology Therapy Approach to Micro-enterprise Adoption of ICTs" Americas Conference on Information Systems \(AMCIS\007  46  Barba-Sanchez, V., Martinez-Ruiz, M.P., and JimenezZarco, A.I Drivers, Benefits and Challenges of ICT Adoption by Small and Medium Sized Enterprises SMEs\ Literature Review  Problems and Perspectives in Management Vol. 5 No. 1, pg. 103 2007 47  Brady, M., Saren, M. and Tzokas, N Integrating Information Technology into Marketing Practice The IT Realize of Contemporary Marketing Practice  Journal of Marketing Management Vol. 18, pg. 555577. 2002  48  Strauss, A. and Corbin, J Basics of Qualitative Research: Grounded Theory Procedures and Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 9 


Techniques Newbusry Park, CA and London: Sage Publications. 1990  49  Walsham, G. Interpretive case studies in IS research Nature and method European Journal of Information Systems  4 2\ 64 81. 1995  50  Patton, M. Q. Qualitative research and evaluation methods \(3rd ed.\housand Oakes, CA:Sage Publications, Inc. 2002   Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 10 


