Abstract The modern critical infrastr uctures \(Power grids Power plants, gas and oil pipelines etc.\are nowadays strongly interconnected at national and in ternational level. The failure of one of them can originate cascading effects which might have serious and disastrous impact on others, even geographically far, infrastructures. The ex change of information about vulnerabilities, threats, count ermeasures among the different actors of such interleaved systems assumes a not negligible role in the prevention of continental disasters Due to their intrinsic nature, such information has to be considered strongly confidential and sensitive. Cope with the two needs of “share information” preserving the “confidentiality” according to some criteria, is the big obstacle in the creation of effective critical infrastructure information sharing networks In this paper we present an extension of the well known Trustnegotiation framework, which allows to address the confidentiality problem in the context of information sharin g for critical infrastructures I I NTRODUCTION N the recent years, the problem of energy production and transmission has become more and more relevant. The actual scenario in this field can be described as a complex graph of interleaved entities producing and exchanging energy at international, national and regional level. In order to well support such critical infrastructure, the different entities playing a role it its functioning, s hould be able to exchange information about production, c ontrol, policies, prices energy market National initiatives for establishing trust and collaboration among entities managing such critical infrastructures exist already. Several can be the examples: in the United Kingdom the National Infrastructure S ecurity Coordination Center NISCC\otes different information exchange networks in critical sectors like aviation, service providers, telecoms Industrial SCADA control systems. At the same way, the Swedish Emergency Manageme and the Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik  in Germany are encouraging the creation of some sharing network in all those fields which can be considered of critical interest. As anachronistic could seems, usually such information exchanges at the moment take place in physical meetings, while in few of these initiatives the ICT technologies are massively used. The exchange of such Manuscript received  August 28, 2008. This research was partly funded by EU IP IST-015964 Aeolus A. Trombetta and S. Braghin are w ith Dipartimento di Informatica Comunicazione, University of Insubria, Varese, Italy  \(e-mail alberto.trombetta@uninsubria.it stefano.braghin@uninsubria.it I. Nai Fovino is with JRC – European Commission – Institute for the Protection and Security of the Citizen \(IPSC e-mail: igor.nai@jrc.it information, considering their criticality, is usually regulated by strong confidentiality and disclosure constraints. The few electronic communication systems in the use requires a strong involvement of human actors, main ly in defining the level of trust of the other actors, and the level of disclosure to be assigned to a target information So, if from one hand the relevance of an information sharing infrastructure is well understood in Europe, the technological base for such part nership and for an efficient and modern information exchange is still to be built. The main problem in building this t echnological base is the lack of a computerized system suppor ting the \(semi-\ated establishment of trust among the parties involved in the information exchange In the recent years Trust Management TM\e a very active and relevant research area    developing – among other thi ngs – efficient techniques aiming at the automated negotiation of a proper level of trust among \(initially\utually trusted parties. Usually, this is needed since a party may request access to a resource owned by another party and there is no shared policy regulating resource access. Nevertheless, parties are assumed to possibly have local policies. Aim of TM – an of the Trust Negotiation sub-field in particular – is to build such shared policy starting from parties’ local policies. Thus, the result of a trust negotiation is a yes/no answer to an initial request of resource’s access, given that the parties’ local policies allow for a definition of a shared policy. At the present moment trust negotiation techniques consider a resource as a indivisible whole no further decomposable in many sub-resources However, in a complex environment – such as the critical infrastructure information exchange scenario depicted above resources are composed by many sub-resources with complex interrelations among them. As an example, consider as resource to be accessed a complex attack tree, carrying information about hundreds of possible attack scenarios and the hierarchical relationships among them. Even more important, the fact that a party does not fully satisfy an access policy for a given complex resource does not necessarily implies a complete refusal for the access to it. Rather, it well the case that the party may access a given sub-part of the initially requested resource. In our example, upon a request for accessing a given attack tree, the credentials provided by the party may not be enough to fulfill such request, but enough for viewing a sub-tree of the full attack tree It is not a trivial task to pr ovide such functionalities, given the current state of the existing trust negotiation approaches Advanced Trust Negotiation in Critical Infrastructures Stefano Braghin, Igor Nai Fovino, and Alberto Trombetta I 


In this paper we present an extended version of a well-known trust negotiation language in order to deal with such flexible negotiations, in which \(components of depends on the parties’ local policies and such components can be established during the trust negotiation execution II M OTIVATING SCENARIO The context we are describing is related to a community of Energy infrastructure actors”. In the following a brief description of the differe nt actors is given Government Authorities a government authority is the national entity directly dependent from the national government entitled to control the national operators, to regulate the Energy normative a nd legislation, to interact with Foreign Government authorities in order to coordinate actions at international level. In our scenario different Government authorities can exist in the national context. Each one can directly interact with the other entities of the same country and only indirectly. There exists an exception: government authorities of different countries can interact. Moreover, every Government authority maintains a “table of trust” related to the authorities of other countries. Such a table obviously reflects the foreign politic of every country. On the basis of such table, the different authorities may have or not the access to selected portion of the information shared/requested Producers in this class fall all the industries producing Sw and Hw for Energy \(or more in general for industrial infrastructures \(Scada systems, field actuators etc Producers, can share information \(if they have some sort of common agreement \(it can be represented by a proper agreement certificate”\final users \(if the product the user have bought are under guarantee \(in this case we can speak of “guarantee certificate R and D under this class fall all the research centers universities etc. involved in the research in the field of critical infrastructure. Also in this case R&D can be groped into “consortiums” which can share all the information or only portions of information about their results. The R&D can be associated into mixed consortiums having partners like Producers, final Users etc End Users the End users are the owner of the critical infrastructures. They can share information with R&D with other E.U., with producers Generic Entity are entities which cannot be classified in one of the previous classes. Their level of information disclosure can be considered minimum The possible interactions between the actors described, can be extremely complex. The core of such interaction is obviously an exchange of information \(information flows which can have different level of sensibility and criticality. In the following, some example of such flows are shortly described Security information exchange of security knowledge related to new vulnerabilities hw, sw, architectural etc new attacks, new threats. Such information can be exchanged between End-users, between End-users and producers, etc. In any case, is evident how the same information can be posed under different disclosure constraints depending from the identity of the actor requiring the information International threats Government Authorities can for example exchange information about international threats, and then disclose partially such information to the companies based inside their national borders Common Policies Government Authorities could, for example, exchange information about common policies reach new agreements and then inform the national companies \(producers and end-users These few examples are sufficient to argue some desirable features a framework for the “Information sharing and exchange” should provide 1 A language allowing to express the policies and, more generally, the constraints which must be satisfied in order to request and obtain information 2 A set of mechanism allowing to define different level of trust, on the basis of which select which portion of the information can be released 3 An architecture allowing to implement a “Negotiation Mechanism” for the exchange of the information allowing to define such levels of trust 4 The possibility, for a group of actors, to elect a member able, in certain cases, to conduct the negotiation for the entire group \(The case of negotiation between government authorities could be an example The framework we present in this paper address such features III K NOWLEDGE CHARACTERIZATION The proposed framework has been conceived in order to share information about Power Grids, under a security and safety perspective. A relevant issue in an “Information Sharing Framework”, is related to the kind and to the format of the information to be shared  presented a comprehensive framework allowing to model both systems from an architectural, service oriented point of view\and security knowledge. We decided to adopt such compact modeling approach to model the information to be shared. A system or an architecture, is then modeled in term of components, services provided, relationship among components, and subsystems. At the same way, according to  odeled in term  of vulnerabilities, attacks and threats For major details about system and security knowledge modeling please refer to    


Fig. 1.  An example of XML document describing a simple attack tree A Related works Protocols have been thoroughly investigated in the context open systems Generally, the goal of trust nego tiation protocols is to enable two stranger entities to establis h mutual trust on-line. Such protocols however do not deal with P2P and have several limitations compared to our appr oach, in the sense that they do not provide a mean to reach an agreement on the initial target of the negotiation. For exam is presented a flexible authorization service for open systems that uses the technique of trust negotiation to broker access to resources without allowing the access to limited part of the resource or the service neither its re-nego tiation. To the best of our knowledge, there is no relevant work about the deployment of trust negotiation techniques within critical infrastructures environment Fig. 2.  An example of attack tree IV A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO T RUST N EGOTIATION Trust Negotiation TN for short 12 16 18 is an approach to automated trust bu ilding. More specifically is an interactive process where trust is established gradually by requesting and disclosing credentials. This differs from traditional authentication-based access control systems mainly because trust between strangers is established starting from parties’ properties. Moreover, each party can define access control and release policies to control outsiders’ access to their sensitive credentials. Since both parties have policies TN is appropriate for deployment in a P2P architecture. In the approaches to TN developed so far, two parties can establish trust directly without involving trusted third parties, other than credential issuers. TrustX    is a comprehensive XML-based system for TNs, specifically designed for a P2P environment. In TrustX both parties are equipped with the same functional modules, as a consequence can both drive the negotiation process being equally responsible for negotiation management. Additionally, each party can alternatively act as a requester or a resource controller in different negotiations V T HE NEGOTAITION LANGUAGE In this section will be presented one of the languages supported by TrustX then it will be presented the extension proposed to adapt the exposed language to the scenario presented in Section II The XML-based Resource Negotiation Language or X RNL for short, is a language to specify negotiation policies over resources of any kind The most interesting feature of X RNL, as compared to existing language for negotiations is the possibility to express group-based policies, in which resources belonging to more than one peer are involved A second interesting feature is the possibility to express policies involving resources. As such X RNL introduces a simple notation for specifying when the availability of a resource mentioned in a policy is going to be tested to guarantee the formula’s satisfaction. This approach allows peers to actually obtain stronger assurance about peers’ trust rather than only checking the validity of a statement Finally X RNL provides an interpretation of the language formulae in terms of states of peers. Intuitively, a peer state records which resources have been involved in a negotiation and to what degree \(e. g. requested or released\We define and elaborate on peers’ state transitions and highlight under which circumstances a peer state evolves. It is in development a prototype supporting the X RNL language realized in Java using the JXTA frame  We now give a formal presentation of the X RNL language components a Terms, Conditions and Formulae The basic elements of X RNL are represented by terms typically denoting resources provided by a peer conditions specifying constraints on resources; and formulae specifying under which conditions resources can be disclosed. Resources  are defined by means of a unique name res and a set AttrSet of qualifying attributes values. More precisely o Terms a term is an expression of the form res\(AttrSetCond  where res denotes a resource name AttSetCond is a possible empty set 


of attribute conditions and list is a possible empty list of sub-resource identifier, as defined as follows. We omit the square brackets if list is empty, indicating that the term is a so called atomic term or if contains all the possible component the resource res that means we omit them when we consider the resource completely o Conditions: if res is a resource name, then a condition cond on res is an expression of the form att op expr where att is an attribute name of res  opt is a standard binary operator chosen from   and expr is either a constant or a resource expression o Subresource lists: a subresource list is a list of subresources’ identifier of the form 1 l ist  v s s such as each i s  and  0 i s v where v is the cardinality of  the  subresources of the resource res  Each subresource i s is a term o Formulae: a \(boolean formula is recursively defined as follows a term t is a formula given a formula then  is a formula given formulae and then and are formulae A formula 1   u tt applies to the resources 12  n R R R if 1 R  2 R and n R are the resources names in terms 1  n tt  Example 5.1 Referring to the XML document shown in Fig. 1 we can use the following expressions 1 Library\(Type=”4 identifying the whole XML document 2 Library\(Type=”4 identifying the tags Name and Date, the first and the third respectively 3 Library\(Type=”4    1   Id=”13 identifying the content of the tag AttackTree with attribute Id=”13 A peer is denoted by a \(possible indexed\lowercase letter e.g p or p 1 A group of peers is denoted by a \(possibly indexed G or G 1 We refer to such expressions as peers’ identifiers and peer groups’ identifiers  The expression G.p denotes the peer p belonging to group G  b Weak/Strong formulae Given a formula 1   u tt over terms 1  u tt the expression 1   w u tt  1   u s tt  weak formula  strong formula  Weak and strong formulae mandate two alternative ways of checking whether the resources to which such formulae are applied, are effectively available. From now on, weak and strong formulae are referred simply as formulae c Quantification over peer  \(with cardinality restriction The expressions 1    u t x Gt  1     n u t x Gt for any n  and where 1   u tt is a formula quantified formulae Their intended meaning is that the former is true in the case all peers in group G satisfy formula 1   u tt whereas the latter is true in the case there are n or more peers in group G satisfying formula 1   u tt  Quantified formulae cannot be nested d Named formulae It is an expression of the form 1      pu tt where p is a peer identifier and 1   u tt is a formula. Intuitively, a named formula is true when it holds at the present state of the specified peer. Named formulae cannot be nested e Disclosure policy It is an expression of the form 1     pu t tt where p is a peer t is a term, complex or atomic, without conditions and 1   u tt is a \(quantified or named\ula. The meaning of such expression is that the owner of the policy releases the resource res associated with the term t to the peer p provided that formula 1   u tt holds in the state of peer p  f Rebate formula It is an expression of the form 1   k where each i is a term referring to the corresponding one in a previously exchanged disclosure policy, that means, given a previously exchanged disclosure policy 1    u t Rt where 11   uu tt t t   ku and 1 iik   j such that t ij The meaning of such expression is that the peer is offering a subset of the terms included in the formula of the disclosure policy, to access the term protected by the policy itself Up to now X RNL provides only two levels disclosure That is, a resource R can only be disclosured or not. As shown in Section II, there are very natural scenarios motivating the introduction of a more flexible way of disclosing complex resources. To achieve that, we introduce the concept of level of \(resource\ disclosure Definition 5.1 \(levels of \(resource\ disclosure Given a resource, or service R we define a series of levels of disclosure over R denoted by R 0  R 1  R 2  R v  Considering the composite resource R  r 1  r 2  r t where each r i is an atomic resource, the levels of disclosure can be seen as coverings over R where R 0  R and R v  The remaining levels are choose in a way to define a partial order among them In Examples 5.2 and 5.3 are shown two of the possible levels definitions Example 5.2 Considering the resource R defined in Fig. 1 identified with the term Library\(Type=”4 it is possible to define on it, for example, 5 levels of disclosure R 0  Library  Type = “4  1,2,3,4  R 1  Library  Type = “4  1,2,3  R 2  Library  Type = “4  1,2  R 3  Library  Type = “4  1  R 4  Example 5.3 Again, consider the resource R defined in Fig. 1, it is possible to define a different set of levels of disclosure, composed that time of 8 levels, as follows 


R 0  Library  Type = “4  1,2,3,4  R 1  Library  Type = “4  1,2  o R 2  Library  Type = “4  1  o R 3  Library  Type = “4  2  R 4  Library  Type = “4  3,4  o R 5  Library  Type = “4  3  o R 6  Library  Type = “4  4  R 7  A negotiation is a finite sequence of formulae, exchanged by the negotiation parties in order to achieve the disclosure of a resource R The negotiation is started by a party, called Requester asking to access the resource owned by the other party, called Controller The Controller replies sending to the counterpart the disclosure policies associated to the requested resource. For each terms used in the formulae of the disclosure policies, the Requester sends the corresponding disclosure policies. The same procedure is performed by the Controller on the terms in the formulae sent it by the Requester. Such operations are iteratively repeated until a set of terms is found with no disclosure policies associated and granting the disclosure of further terms up to the disclosure of the initial resource R If such set is no found, the negotiation terminates with a failure. The state of a peer keeps track of which resources the peer makes available to other peers, and whether the peer has released such resources. Also the state includes the identifies of the resources that the peer has requested from other peers, and whether the peer has obtained them Definition 5.2 \(Peer State A state of a peer p is a tuple  11 2 2     puu SRaRa Ra where a pair  ii Ra denotes the fact that resource R i has been associated to action a i  where a i takes values over the set requested  available  released  received  request  The satisfaction of a formula is evaluated respect with a peer state. A formula is satisfied in a peer state if the resources to which a formula applies are available in that state and if the resources’ attributes meet the conditions in the formula Definition 5.3 \(Formula satisfiability Given a formula 1   u tt we say that holds at Sp iff 1 There is a tuple of the form  i R available for each resource R i to which 1   u tt applies 1 2 For each resource R i the attribute conditions specified by the corresponding term t i in are satisfied by ‘s attribute values in AttrSet  g Weak assured formulae enforcement If a formula is denoted as weak is verified by checking the validity of the credential associated to the terms of the formula. That may mean checking the validity of X.509 certificates or of signed advertisement, depending on the environment of the negotiation h Strong assured formulae enforcement If a formula is denoted as strong the simple verification of the credential representing it, is not enough. That type of verification 1 That is, all the resource to which the formula applies are available in S p  requires that the actual presence of the resource is periodically verified. The frequency of the verification can be set by p at its discretion i Level of disclosure If the reply to the initial request of the resource R is of the form 12     u t Rt t where  the formula 12 1 2    uu t tttt t  it is possible for the initial requester to provide a subset of terms contained in in order to obtain at least a subset of the atomic resources composing R that the provider define as appropriate for the disclosured terms. The requester rebate with the rebate formula 12     k  constructed as described before. If the controller of the resource R accepts the offered terms as enough to disclosure the resource, it replies with a disclosure policy of the form 1    l k R where l R is the level of disclosure associated by the controller with the offered terms 1  k  That process is called level negotiation To be able to identify the level associate to a given subset of terms, we need to define some tools function Definition 5.4 \(Term evaluation function A term evaluation function is a function defined as follows  wT  Where T is the set of terms known by a party. Such function associates to each term t a value n expressing the importance” each party associate with the term t  Definition 5.5 \(Level of disclosure threshold function A level of disclosure threshold function is a function defined as follows  sL  Where L is a set of all disclosure levels. Such function associates a value to each disclosure level. The meaning of such association is to define a threshold above which the level can be disclosured. An example of the usage of what have just been described is shown in Ex. 5.4 Example 5.4 Let the attach tree shown in Fig. 1 be the resource controlled by a party called Controller C party called Requester R  R sends to C a request of the form Library  Type=”4  C replies with the disclosure policy related to Library  Type=”4  it be Library  Type=”4  1234     tt t t where the formula 1234 1 2 3 4     tt tt t t t t   R doesn’t own t 2 and t 3 or doesn’t want to disclose them to C it replies with the rebate formula 14 1 4   tt t t Following Fig.3 C identify as R 2 according to Example 5.2, the appropriate level of disclosure for the terms offered by R It replies with the new resource “requested” and the new associated disclosure policy Library  Type=”4   14   tt where 14 1 4   tt t t If C accept to access the offered level of disclosure over the resource R it replies with the disclosure policies associated to the involved terms. If it refuses it can try to offer more less terms or give up with the negotiation This is a conservative extension of the original language in the sense that, if there is no match between the disclosured 


policies in X RNL, then the negotiation fails, while in the newly proposed language it is possible to re-negotiate the originally requested resource Fig. 3.  Identifies the disclosure level for the terms offered by the counter-party VI C ONCLUSIONS The language described previously, satisfies the requirements presented in Section II for Critical Infrastructure Information Sharing Systems. In fact, such negotiation language enables to express exchange policies and constraints, introducing formal mechanisms allowing to assign different level of “trust” to the actors of the sharing network, on the basis of the required information. Moreover it allows to model the concept of partial information sharing i.e. the possibility to release only portions of a target information, on the basis of the identity and of he properties of the requesting actor.  By adopting such language it is possible to create a distribute network of peer “layered and clusterized” according to different kinds of characteristics They can freely and securely exchange information about C.I preserving at the same time the strong constraints related to the confidentiality of such information. Fig. 4 shows for example the case described in Section II: the peers are organized into “Country clusters”; they can negotiate and exchange directly some information with members of the same or different cluster, and indirectly by leaving the negotiation task to the Government Peers. The present work leaves obviously opened some questions which are typical and not definitively solved in the information sharing world I\the owner of a released information loses any control over the released copy, i.e. he cannot force the actor which receives the information to apply the same distribution criteria on such information while requested to distribute it by a third actor. \(II\ is, at the moment, prone to Data-Mining analysis attacks. In fact by using such techniques, could be possible for a malicious actor, to use information obtained “legally” in order to guess information for which he has not any access right Fig. 4.  High level Information Exchange Network schema The first problem could be solved for example by implementing some “reputation mechanism”, while for the second, some Statistical disclosure control and Privacy Preserving Data Mining mechanisms can be identified and applied. We plan for the future, to address such issues Moreover, we plan to implement a fully working peer-to-peer prototype of the present architecture, in order to conduct an extensive on field working test R EFERENCES  E. Bertino, E. Ferrari and A C Squicciarini. “Trust-X: A peer-to-peer framework for trust establishment IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data. Eng  16\(7\: 827-842, 2004  M Blaze J. Ioannidis and A. D. Kerom ytis E xperience with the keynote trust management system: Applications and future directions In iTrust pages 284-300, 2003  BSI – Bundestam t für sicherheit in der Inform ationstechnik Available http://www.bsi.bund.de/english/index.htm   JXTA™ Com m unity Projects. Available https://jxta.dev.java.net   A. Lee, M. Winslett, J. Basney and V Welch Traust a trust negotiation-based authorization service for open systems”, 2006  A. J. Lee and M. W i nslett. “Ope n problems for usable and secure open systems  M. Masera and I. Nai Fovino. “Modeli ng inform ation assets for security risk assessment in industrial settings”. In EICAR 2006  I. Nai Fovino and M. Masera Em e rgen t disservices in interdependent systems and system-of-systems”. In IEEE editor SMC October 2006  I Nai Fovino and M. Masera. “A service oriented approach to the assessment of infrastructure security”. In First Annual IFIP Working Group 11.10 International Federation for Information Processing  October 2006  I   Nai Fovino and M  Maser a Thr ough the descr i ption of attacks: a multidimensional view”. In 25 th International Conference on Computer Safety, Reliability and Security 2006  S Ruohom aa and L Kutvonen Tr u st m a nagem e nt sur v ey  I n  iTrust  pages 77-92, 2005  K. E. Seam ons, M. Winslett, T. Yu B. Smith, E. Child, J. Jacobson, H Mills and L. Yu. “Requirements for policy languages for trust negotiation”. In POLICY pages 68-79, 2002  SEMA Hom e Page. Available http://www.krisberedskapsmyndigheten.se/defaultEN224.aspx   A. C. Squicciarini, E. Bertino E. Ferrari, F. Paci and B M Thuraisingham. “PP-Trust-X: A sys tem for privacy preserving trust negotiation”. In POLICY pages 68-79, 2002  A. C. Squicciar ini, A. Tr om betta and E. Bertino, “Supporting robust and secure interactions in open domains through recovery of trust negotiations”. In ICDCS page 57, 2007  W  W i nsbor ough K Seam ons and V Jones  Autom ated tr ust negotiation”. Technical Report TR-2000-05, 24 2000  W  H. W i nsbor ough and N. Li. “Towar ds pr actical autom a ted tr ust negotiation”. In POLICY pages 92-103, 2002  M  W i nslett. “An intr oduction to tr ust negotiation I n  iTrust pages 275-283, 2003  T Yu Autom ated Tr ust Establishm ent in Open System s”, PhD thesis University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2003 


throughout the complete spacecraft lifecycle To solve this problem a consistent simulation framework is essential for software IV&V at each phase in the spacecraft lifecycle This framework will guide our future software IV&V activities 7 Software process improvement 8 modelbased development and avionics architecture research are also underway Technical Collaborations International collaboration with other IV&V facilities such as NASA 9 and ESA 10 is also essential to improve our software IV&V process and to perform international collaborative missions Our technologies are open to the public in the space community and spacecraft development teams and contractors can use them Actually several technologies have been adopted already by some teams and contractors Currently these technologies are under consideration for adoption in the automobile and electronic controls and systems domains Effectiveness has already been recognized in several systems and development phases Our software IV&V is under consideration for insertion into the software quality assurance process at JAXA 5 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK To help each spacecraft mission to be successful by minimizing risks in complex software we have applied software IV&V to various spacecraft systems and subsystems in JAXA We are now developing and implementing techniques for software IV&V to achieve appropriate and tailored levels of mission criticality and risk for each spacecraft The software IV&V will be applied to provide the necessary scope and levels of assurance through the development REFERENCES 1 JAXA Vision JAXA 2025Web site http://www.jaxa.jp/about/2025/index_e.html 2 ISO/IEC9126 Software engineering Product quality 3 Robyn R Lutz Targeting Safety-Related Errors During Software Requirement Analysis Journal of Systems and Software Vol.34 Issue.3 p.223-230 1996 4 Nancy G Leveson Jon D Reese Mats P.E.Heimdahl SpecTRM A CAD System for Digital Automation Digital Avionics Systems Conference Proceedings 17th DASC The AIAA/IEEE/SAE Vol.1 B52/1-B52/8 1998 5 Johan Bengtsson Kim G Larsen Fredrik Larsson Paul Pettersson Wang Yi UPPAAL a Tool Suite for Automatic Verification of Real-Time Systems In Proceeding of the 4th DIMACS Workshop on Verification and Control of Hybrid Systems 1995 6 Yuko Miyamoto Haruka Nakao Dan Port Strategic Planning of IV&V for Space System Software Data Systems in Aerospace 2007 7 Naohiko Kohtake Yuko Miyamoto Masafumi Katahira Needs Analysis for Simulation Framework throughout Spacecraft Life Cycle 9th International Workshop on Simulation for European Space Programmes 2006 8 Fabio Bella Dirk Hamann Juirgen Munch Masa Katahira Yuko Miyamoto Makoto Shizunaga Software Process Definition for Multi-organizational Development in the Aerospace Domain International Conference on Software  Systems Engineering and their Applications 2006 9 Frederick D Gregory NASA Software Independent Verification and Validation IV&V An Upfront Approach to Mission Success Data Systems in Aerospace 1997 10 Frode Hogerg Narve Mjos Poul Gougaard Ricardo Maia Leslie Baldwin Patricia Rodriguez Kjeld Hjortnaes ISVV Process  Facility Project Data Systems in Aerospace 2005 7 


BIOGRAPHY Dr Naohiko Kohtake is an associated senior engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He was engaged in research and development on avionics systems fr H-IIA launch vehicle at NASDA and ubiquitous cmuting systems at Keio University He was also involved in research for on-board software at European Space Agency and user interface at Sony Computer Science Laboratories as a visiting researcher Presently he is working on software IV&V and related research He received B.E M.E and Ph.D from Keio University He is a member of the IEEE and a visiting lecturer at University of Tsukuba Atsushi Katoh is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He worked on realtime operating system at Fujitsu as a member of the Real-time Operating System Nucleus TRON project and software IV&V support at Japan Manned Space Systems Corporation He is involved in software IV&V and several software verification and validation research projects He received B.E M.E from Kumamoto University Tomomi Kawasaki is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA She worked on several space science researches at Institute of Space and Astronautical Science ISAS Se is involved in software IV&V and FPGA quality assurance research Masafumi Katahira is a senior engineer and a team leader of the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA Hie worked on satellite operations and development of JEM and H-IIA launch vehicle at NASDA and complex systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology He is engaged in software IV&V software process improvement and real-time operating system for spacecraft He received B.E from Aoyama Gakuin University and M.E from Florida Institute of Technology He is a member of the IEEE Naoki Ishihama is an associated senior engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA He worked on technical support for software development of several satellites at NASDA He is involved in development of real-time operating system for spacecraft and software IV&V He received B.E from Keio University and M.E from University of Tokyo He is a member of the IEEE Yuko Miyamoto is an engineer in the Software Engineering Team JEDI Center in JAXA She is working on software process improvement and software IV&V She received B.S M.S from University of Tsukuba 8 


  9 corrections. With several concurrent development processes, ops personnel could be members of more than one virtual team simultaneously. Various strategies such as sequence specific email aliases and automated software configuration were devel oped to ease confusion from sequence to sequence Aftermarket and SOP Update 227Since the initial round of integration and implementation was begun two years before reaching Saturn, a two-step update phase was included to incorporate new discoveries, respond to instrument performance changes, and design to the latest navigation ephemerides. The record of planned activities from SOP was retained in the CIMS database. During Aftermarket, the previous integration was revisited and revised. SOP Update during which the commanding for pointing and for management of shared resources such as power and data volume was reworked and revalidated, followed Aftermarket Sequencing 227 The final sequence development phase Science and Sequence Update Process \(SSUP began 10 weeks before start of execu tion. The commanding carried forward from SOPU received its final refinements and validation. Instrument internal commanding was added during this stage of development, expanding the roster of participants as the focus shifted from science design to instrument operation. The vector commands for attitude control were also generated and merged into the sequence providing the first realistic estimate of sequence size Since the sequence contains tens of thousands of commands, ensuring its validity was laborious. Because the command sequence represents merged commanding from each of the instruments a nd from each of the spacecraft subsystems, configuration ma nagement was required to insure that all parties were aware of changes potentially impacting them and that no changes were made without appropriate validation. Late in this stage of development changes were restricted to those related to maintaining flight assets health and safety. Novel or particularly complex activities were simulated in one or more of the available testbeds. The highest fide lity modeling was accomplished with a hardware-in-the-loop simulator, the Integrated Test Laboratory \(ITL\with engineering versions of the flight processors and flight software the same as on-board the spacecraft Over the lengthy time to plan the activities and develop the commands, the precise timing of geometric opportunities sometimes shifted. Several constructs to accommodate those shifts were introduced. In the one employed during SSUP called a ground movable block, a cluster of observations was shifted together within a window to reflect a timing change in a key event such as closest approach to a body Execution 227Uplink of the background sequence and the loads of instrument expanded blocks required several DSN passes since the files were large and had to be verified once on board. Days that included other Earth-pointed activity such as OTMs were avoided. This expanded the overlap of the old and new background sequences over enough days that careful memory management was required to fit both in onboard memory. In some cases, the new sequence was too large and needed to be split in to two pieces with the second uplinked as the first piece neared completion Once the sequence was executi ng, additional real-time commands and mini-sequences were uplinked for timing adjustments, OTMs, and other engineering activities requiring state verification be fore issuance. Instrument internal commands could be also be uplinked directly without involvement of the sequence team at JPL using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP During execution, there were two ways of accommodating late changes to timing or geometry. One, a live moveable block, was similar to the ground version except that the size of the timing shift was not determined until after the sequence had begun executing. The other, called a live vector update, redirected the pointing in inertial space by redefining the vectors that control attitude. Although this was a straightforward mechanism for altering pointing in response to later, better knowledge of spacecraft position the process took several days and considerable effort. So extensive analysis was require d to carefully place potential updates where they could be most effective 6  L ESSONS L EARNED  Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed in overcoming those challenges should be of value to other deep space science missions, including the next Outer Planets flagship mission. Some of the lessons cover design decisions, both those that facilitated operations and should be carried forward for future consideration and those that complicated operations and should be avoided Others reflect ways in which flight experience differed from expectations. The discussion with resulting recommendations for future missions is divided into three categories: flight system, ground system, and programmatic Flight System Operational modes 227 Spacecraft operational modes were used to define a limited number of power mode states for the instruments and engineering subsystems. The states were developed in conjunction with project science and the engineering office to enable synergistic and cooperative science data collection. The use of operational modes eliminated the need to perform unique thermal modeling on a sequence-by-sequence basis. The thermal and power configurations for each of th e limited number of operational modes were fully tested only once for operational use. As such, there was no need to va lidate and check the power and 


  10 thermal state of the spacecraft during sequence development. However, on a very limited number of occasions, unique power m odes were necessary to accomplish the science data acquisition plan. In these situations, thermal modeling was necessary during sequence development. The a priori restriction on the use of unique power modes was limited to 5% of the total power modes used throughout the mission. In reality, the operational experience was about 1 Telemetry Modes 227 The volume of science data from the instrument is a function of the science data pickup rates specified for each instrument The science instruments can easily exceed the total bandwid th capabilities for the flight system, so the maximum data pickup rates need to be limited depending on the acquisition of the science plan The Cassini mission restricted th e instrument data rates by developing a limited number of telemetry modes where the maximum data pickup rate for each instrument is specified Project science worked with the science teams to develop the data pickup rate for each telemetry mode based on the synergistic science data collection Memory Management 227 The on-board memory management for Cassini significantly simplifies the managing of backgrounds seque nces and mini-sequences The flight software has the capability to run 64 different programs \(sequence, delayed action commands, etc once. This significantly simplifies the development and coordination required for the live updates and OTM processes. Also, the on-board memory management allows for sequences that are too large to fit in the on-board memory to be split into pieces Guidance and Control 227 The AACS subsystem uses an Internal Vector Propagation \(IVP\for pointing the spacecraft at the science targets of interest. The ephemerides for the spacecraft and the various science targets are stored as polynomial vectors and propagated on board the spacecraft for easy retrieval a nd updating. This approach significantly simplifies the ability to perform live pointing vector updates during sequence execution when the spacecraft knowledge to better known. An update to a single vector, or a couple of vectors is all that is needed to correctly target upcoming science observations Command and Data Handling 227 The Command and Data Subsystem \(CDS features that simplified operations. Among these were onboard science instrument data policing, ability to remove bad solid-state recorder \(SSR\odules, and a variety of onboard science modules that control science pointing commands \(e.g., limb scans, ring tracking, mosaics\and their corresponding instrument triggers. One of the more powerful capabilities on-board th e spacecraft was the data policing, which controls the amount of science instrument data that can be recorded on-board the solid state \(SSR recorder. Once data volume wa s allocated to the science instrument teams on a daily basis in the planning process data policing prevented any team from using more data than allocated if compression or instrument internal commanding goes awry. This eliminates any need for ground intervention to prevent SSR overruns during sequence execution High-priority science playback 227 Insuring receipt of highpriority science data in the event of a DSN station problem requires a priori commanding in the background sequence for dual, playbacks of this data. This requires a considerable amount of planning and SSR pointer management and commanding to achieve the protection of this data. A filebased SSR, and/or a CCSDS File Delivery Protocol \(CFDP capability would have simplifie d the redundant playback of high-priority science data No Scan Platform 227 The lack of a scan platform significantly increased the operations complexity of the mission. Without a scan platform the pointing of the optical remote sensing instruments was coupled with the pointing of the fields and particles instruments. This more than doubled the competition for th e spacecraft pointing. In addition, the total number of pointing constraints \(radiators and boresights\ncreased, dramatically reducing the amount of the 4 002 steradians of the celestial sphere that is available for spacecraft pointing. Th is required significant negotiations of the spacecraft attitude, both primary and secondary, during the science integration and implementation process Navigation 227 The Cassini spacecraft is navigated to a specific B\267T and B\267R for each targeted flyby Fixing the targeted flyby tie points increased the overall delta-V required to fly the mission but significantly simplified the science operations involved with planning the science observations taken with 261 30 minutes from closest approach. The trajectory was allowed to deviate between the targeted flyby tie-points, which required pointing vector updates for science observations outside of the targeted flyby \(see Guidance and Control above for a discussion of live pointing vector updates Another simplified operational approach used by Cassini is the just-in-time development of the Orbit Trim Maneuvers OTMs\e OTMs are built using mini-sequences that are overlaid and executed during the earth-pointed downlink periods planned in the background sequence Ground System  Science Operations System 227 A critical planning tool used to enable distributed operations was the Cassini Information Management System \(CIMS\This tool uses a web-based interface to the Cassini database that contains the current state of the integrated scien ce and engineering plan. CIMS is used throughout the sequencing life cycle on the mission from initial planning through execution. This system allowed the science instrument teams from around the world 


  11 to request, review, and propose changes to the current state of the science plan Distributed Operations 227 Cassini distributed all aspects of the instrument operations to the science teams. Science Teams were required to develop the spacecraft commanding for pointing the spacecraft. Th is significantly complicated the interfaces and coordination required by the JPL science and sequencing teams. The distribution of internal instrument commanding and monitoring instrument health and safety worked well. Dedicated full-time operations personnel were required at all instrument sites. The liaison between the distributed sites and JPL required definition of a strong JPL Investigation Scientist \(i.e., Experiment Representative\le Distributed operations is a two-edged sword. Scientists personally worked operations and were better able to optimize for their science objectives. Their insight provided the feedback necessary to quickly respond to science discoveries in the science selection and uplink processes This allowed the operations team to capitalize on truly extraordinary opportunities to a degree not thought possible However, this was at the cost of doing science analysis and publishing science results Software Development 227 The Cassini mission deferred most of its ground software development until post launch. In fact, considerable effort was spent accelerating the development of the tools required to plan the Jupiter flyby observations in 2001. For the start of the science integration for Cassini\222s prime mission, many of the ground software planning tools were immature or unavailable. To compensate, homegrown tool development occurred at the instrument sites and within science planning. System engineering of these types of ground software tools was lacking. A better paradigm would have been to develop the operations and ground system\222s architecture, requirements models, and software to a level sufficient to support operations pre-launch. Sufficient project resources needed to be applied to Phase B/C/D development. The science planning tools should be developed to a sufficient level during these phases such that th ey can be used as part of evaluating the ground and flight system requirements and capabilities. Based on this evaluation, refinements could be made during cruise and throughout the mission to the unified ground and flight system architecture and software requirements Programmatic  Project Science 227The orbiter consists of 8 Principal Investigator \(PI\struments and 4 Facility Instrument with corresponding Team Leads. In a ddition, there are 5 different science discipline teams: Rings, Saturn, Titan, Icy Satellites and Magnetosphere. The Project Science leader ship needed to be highly involved in the tactical and strategic science planning activities. The consensus building culture used on Cassini was time consuming. The Project Science support staff should be funded adequately to allow the Project Scientist to participate in the integration process. Clear Project Science guidelines are very helpful Instruments 227 Instrument Flight Rule development must be mature pre-launch. Instruments should be designed to minimize impacts on the operations of the other instruments, e.g., radiator placement. Data compression internal to instruments is vital. For Cassini, the science instruments had internal sequencing memory for storing instrument commanding for upcoming sequence. This allowed the science teams th e ability to send real-time noninteractive instrument commands that bypass the sequencing process by using the Automated Sequence Processor \(ASP  In-flight Testing 227 The targeted gravity assist flybys provided a unique opportunity to exercise the ground system on realistic science data acquisition scenarios that simulates the operational environment during the Tour phase of the prime mission. This also had the advantage of providing the science instrument teams an opportunity to acquire useful science data for the purposes of instrument checkout and science data analysis. The in-flight exercises should use the processes, procedures, software, and ground system capabilities in the same manner, to the extent possible, as will be used during Tour and Orbital operations The entire flight team \(mission planning, science planning sequencing, spacecraft, naviga tion, and science teams should be fully engaged to provide the maximum benefit to the Project 7  C ONCLUSION  Even though Cassini was a NASA flagship mission maximizing the science return was a challenge to science planning operations. Decisions aimed at saving both prelaunch and operations costs added considerable complexity to both the spacecraft and the ground system. Among the key ones were removing the scan platform, opting for distributed operations rather than co-location, and delaying development of some flight software and most of the ground system until after launch Understanding the operational challenges to maximizing Cassini science return and the successful techniques employed to overcome those challenges as presented in this paper should be of value to other deep space science missions.  Future missions should carefully consider the following advice 200  Pay careful attention to operational scenarios in development cost saving decisions, both spacecraft and ground. Additional, more sophisticated commanding constructs may be required in operations to compensate for lack of spacecraft capabilities. Ground management of stressed or 


  12 degraded spacecraft components will be labor intensive   R EFERENCES    N. Vanderm ey and B G. Paczkowski 223The C a ssi ni Huygens Mission Overview,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Andrew M i shki n and B a rbara Larsen 223Im p l e m e nt i ng Distributed Operations: A Comparison of Two Deep Space Missions,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006 3 Barb ara Larsen 223Bu ilt Bu t No t Used Need ed  Bu t No t Built: Ground System Guidance Based On CassiniHuygens Experience,\224 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Spi l k er, Li nda J \(edi t o r o  a R i nged Wold\224,NASA SP-533, 1997  Jennifer Long Maxwell, W illiam M Heventhal, III, and Shahram Javidnia, \223The Cassini-Huygens Sequence Development Process\224, 2006 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, June 19-26, 2006   Paczkowski  B G, \223C assi ni Sci e nce Pl anni ng Process\224 2004 AIAA SpaceOps Conference Proceedings, May 17 21, 2004 200  Recognize that lack of margin in any resource required for science return will require compensatory staffing. Pr edefined, prevalidated options for resource management such a power modes can compensate. Tools that validate resource allocation are essential 200  Anticipate alternative costs for failing to meet MOS development schedules. The ground system needs to have reached sufficient maturity to support key operations tasks before those tasks commence 200  Distributed science operations introduces delays and complications to sequence development, which must be managed in science planning. System engineering will need to deal with overlap in and conflict between ground systems 200  Acknowledge that complexity in any form\227 spacecraft design, science objectives, MOS architecture\227may be managed to enhance science return but the science planning operations must be funded and structured to manage that complexity The processes to develop science commanding will be lengthy and highly iterative In the end, with an appropriate funding profile, adequate and timely staffing, and effective processes and tools all the facets of mission complexity can be managed to extract amazing science return 8  A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS  The authors would like to acknowledge the dedication and hard work done by the Cassini-Huygens Flight and Science Teams. Without their efforts the unrivaled science collected by the Cassini mission would not have been achieved This work was performed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technol ogy, under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  251 2008 California Institute of Technology. Government sponsorship acknowledged 


  13 B IOGRAPHY  Brian Paczkowski is currently the Deputy Section Manager of the Planning and Execution Section within the Systems and Software Division at JPL. Prior to that he spent 9 years as the Cassini Science Planning Manager responsible for the development and implementation of the Science Operations Plan. Prior to Cassini, he was the Science Planning and Operations Team Chief for the Galileo Mission to Jupiter. He has also been involved with the pre-launch development of the science instruments on Galileo, Comet Rendezvous and Asteroid Flyby \(CRAF\ and Cassini missions. He has a BS in Astronomy from Villanova University and did graduate studies in Astronomy at Ohio State University  Barbara Larsen  is the Mission Operations System Engineer for the Cassini Mission. She is also on the science planning staff and previously worked in system engineering for the Mission Sequence Subsystem. She has a MS in Mathematics from California State University Long Beach and a BS in Mathematics from USC Trina Ray  is currently the Titan Orbiter Science Team \(TOST\ co-chair and the Science System Engineer for the Project Scientist for Cassini. She has been working on the Cassini Mission since before launch as an instrument operations lead for the Radio Science Team, and then as part of the Science Planning Team supporting Titan integrati on and sequence development She has a MS in Astronomy from San Diego State University and a BS in Physics, Astronomy option from CSUN  


  14  


 15 7  B.-N. Vo and W.-K. Ma, \223The Gaussian Mixture Probability Hypothesis Density Filter,\224 IEEE Trans Signal Processing Vol. 54, pp. 4091-4104, November 2006 8  B. Ristic, S. Arulampalam, and N. Gordon Beyond the Kalman Filter Artech House, 2004 9  Y. Bar-Shalom, X. Rong Li, and T. Kirubarajan Estimation with Applications to Tracking and Navigation, New York: John Wiley & Sons, pg. 166 2001 10  X. R. Li, Z. Zhao, and V. P. Jilkov, \223Estimator\222s Credibility and Its Measures,\224 Proc. IFAC 15th World Congress Barcelona, Spain, July 2002 11  M. Mallick and S. Arulampalam, \223Comparison of Nonlinear Filtering Algorithms in Ground Moving Target Indicator \(GMTI Proc Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets San Diego, CA, August 4-7, 2003 12  M. Skolnik, Radar Handbook, New York: McGrawHill, 1990 13  A. Gelb, Editor Applied Optimal Estimation The MIT Press, 1974 14  B. D. O. Anderson and J. B. Moore Optimal Filtering  Prentice Hall, 1979 15  A. B. Poore, \223Multidimensional assignment formulation of data ass ociation problems arising from multitarget and multisensor tracking,\224 Computational Optimization and Applications Vol. 3, pp. 27\22657 1994 16  A. B. Poore and R. Robertson, \223A New multidimensional data association algorithm for multisensor-multitarget tracking,\224 Proc. SPIE, Signal and Data Processing of Small Targets Vol. 2561,  p 448-459, Oliver E. Drummond; Ed., Sep. 1995 17  K. R. Pattipati, T. Kirubarajan, and R. L. Popp, \223Survey of assignment techniques for multitarget tracking,\224 Proc  on Workshop on Estimation  Tracking, and Fusion: A Tribute to Yaakov Bar-Shalom Monterey CA, May 17, 2001 18  P. Burns, W.D. Blair, \223Multiple Hypothesis Tracker in the BMD Benchmark Simulation,\224 Proceedings of the 2004 Multitarget Tracking ONR Workshop, June 2004 19  H. Hotelling, \223The generalization of Student's ratio,\224 Ann. Math. Statist., Vol. 2, pp 360\226378, 1931 20  Blair, W. D., and Brandt-Pearce, M., \223Monopulse DOA Estimation for Two Unresolved Rayleigh Targets,\224 IEEE Transactions Aerospace Electronic Systems  Vol. AES-37, No. 2, April 2001, pp. 452-469 21  H. A. P.  Blom, and Y. Bar-Shalom, The Interacting Multiple Model algorithm for systems with Markovian switching coefficients IEEE Transactions on Au tomatic Control 33\(8  780-783, August, 1988 22  M. Kendall, A. Stuart, and J. K. Ord, The Advanced Theory of Statistics, Vol. 3, 4th Edition, New York Macmillan Publishing, pg. 290, 1983 23  T.M. Cover and P.E. Hart, Nearest Neighbor Pattern Classification, IEEE Trans. on Inf. Theory, Volume IT-13\(1 24  C.D. Papanicolopoulos, W.D. Blair, D.L. Sherman, M Brandt-Pearce, Use of a Rician Distribution for Modeling Aspect-Dependent RCS Amplitude and Scintillation Proc. IEEE Radar Conf 2007 25  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Detection of multiple unresolved Rayleigh targets using quadrature monopulse measurements, Proc. 28th IEEE SSST March 1996, pp. 285-289 26  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Monopulse Processing For Tracking Unresolved Targets NSWCDD/TR-97/167, Sept., 1997 27  W.D. Blair and M. Brandt-Pearce, Statistical Description of Monopulse Parameters for Tracking Rayleigh Targets  IEEE AES Transactions, Vol. 34 Issue 2,  April 1998, pp. 597-611 28  Jonker and Volgenant, A Shortest Augmenting Path Algorithm for Dense and Sparse Linear Assignment Problems, Computing, Vol. 38, 1987, pp. 325-340 29  V. Jain, L.M. Ehrman, and W.D. Blair, Estimating the DOA mean and variance of o ff-boresight targets using monopulse radar, IEEE Thirty-Eighth SSST Proceedings, 5-7 March 2006, pp. 85-88 30  Y. Bar-Shalom, T. Kirubarajan, and C. Gokberk 223Tracking with Classification-Aided Multiframe Data Association,\224 IEEE Trans. on Aerospace and Electronics Systems Vol. 41, pp. 868-878, July, 2005   


 16 B IOGRAPHY  Andy Register earned BS, MS, and Ph  D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology.  His doctoral research emphasized the simulation and realtime control of nonminimum phase mechanical systems.  Dr. Register has approximately 20 years of experience in R&D with his current employer, Georgia Tech, and product development at two early-phase startups. Dr. Register\222s work has been published in journals and conf erence proceedings relative to mechanical vibration, robotics, computer architecture programming techniques, and radar tracking.  More recently Dr. Register has b een developing advanced radar tracking algorithms and a software architecture for the MATLAB target-tracking benchmark.  This work led to the 2007 publication of his first book, \223A Guide to MATLAB Object Oriented Programming.\224  Mahendra Mallick is a Principal Research Scientist at the Georgia Tech Research Institute \(GTRI\. He has over 27 years of professional experience with employments at GTRI \(2008present\, Science Applications International Corporation \(SAIC Chief Scientist \(2007-2008\, Toyon Research Corporation, Chief Scientist 2005-2007\, Lockheed Martin ORINCON, Chief Scientist 2003-2005\, ALPHATECH Inc., Senior Research Scientist 1996-2002\, TASC, Principal MTS \(1985-96\, and Computer Sciences Corporation, MTS \(1981-85 Currently, he is working on multi-sensor and multi-target tracking and classification bas ed on multiple-hypothesis tracking, track-to-track association and fusion, distributed filtering and tracking, advanced nonlinear filtering algorithms, and track-before-detect \(TBD\ algorithms He received a Ph.D. degree in  Quantum Solid State Theory from the State University of New York at Albany in 1981 His graduate research was also based on Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biophysics of large biological molecules. In 1987, he received an MS degree in Computer Science from the John Hopkins University He is a senior member of the IEEE and Associate Editor-inchief  of the Journal of Advances in Information Fusion of the International Society of Information Fusion \(ISIF\. He has organized and chaired special and regular sessions on target tracking and classific ation at the 2002, 2003, 2004 2006, 2007, and 2008 ISIF conferences. He was the chair of the International Program Committee and an invited speaker at the International Colloquium on Information Fusion \(ICIF '2007\, Xi\222an, China. He is a reviewer for the IEEE Transactions on Aerospa ce and Electronics Systems IEEE Transactions on Signal Pr ocessing, International Society of Information Fusion, IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, IEEE Radar Conference, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics, American Control Conference, European Signal Processing Journal and International Colloquium on Information Fusion ICIF '2007   William Dale Blair is a Principal Research Engineer at the Georgia Tech Research Institute in Atlanta, GA. He received the BS and MS degrees in electrical engineering from Tennessee Technological University in 1985 and 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1998. From 1987 to 1990, he was with the Naval System Division of FMC Corporation in Dahlgren, Virginia. From 1990 to 1997, Dr Blair was with the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren Division NSWCDD\ in Dahlgren, Virg inia. At NSWCDD, Dr Blair directed a real-time experiment that demonstrated that modern tracking algorithms can be used to improve the efficiency of phased array radars. Dr Blair is internationally recognized for conceptualizing and developing benchmarks for co mparison and evaluation of target tracking algorithms Dr Blair developed NSWC Tracking Benchmarks I and II and originated ONR/NSWC Tracking Benchmarks III and IV NSWC Tracking Benchmark II has been used in the United Kingdom France, Italy, and throughout the United States, and the results of the benchmark have been presented in numerous conference and journal articles. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as a Se nior Research Engineer in 1997 and was promoted to Principal Research Engineer in 2000. Dr Blair is co-editor of the Multitarg et-Multisensor Tracking: Applications and Advances III. He has coauthored 22 refereed journal articles, 16 refereed conference papers, 67 papers and reports, and two book chapters. Dr Blair's research interest include radar signal processing and control, resource allocation for multifunction radars, multisen sor resource allocation tracking maneuvering targets and multisensor integration and data fusion. His research at the University of Virginia involved monopulse tracking of unresolved targets. Dr Blair is the developer and coordinator of the short course Target Tracking in Sensor Systems for the Distance Learning and Professional Education Departmen t at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Recognition of Dr Blair as a technical expert has lead to his election to Fellow of the IEEE, his selection as the 2001 IEEE Y oung Radar Engineer of the Year, appointments of Editor for Radar Systems, Editor-InChief of the IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems \(AES\, and Editor-in- Chief of the Journal for Advances in Information Fusion, and election to the Board of Governors of the IEEE AES Society,19982003, 2005-2007, and Board of Directors of the International Society of Information Fusion   


 17 Chris Burton received an Associate degree in electronic systems technology from the Community College of the Air force in 1984 and a BS in Electrical Engineering Technology from Northeastern University in 1983.  Prior to coming to the Georgia Institute of Technology \(GTRI\ in 2003, Chris was a BMEWS Radar hardware manager for the US Air Force and at MITRE and Xontech he was responsible for radar performance analysis of PAVE PAWS, BMEWS and PARCS UHF radar systems Chris is an accomplished radar-systems analyst familiar with all hardware and software aspects of missile-tracking radar systems with special expertise related to radar cueing/acquisition/tracking for ballistic missile defense ionospheric effects on UHF radar calibration and track accuracy, radar-to-radar handover, and the effects of enhanced PRF on radar tracking accuracy.  At GTRI, Chris is responsible for detailed analysis of ground-test and flight-test data and can be credited with improving radar calibration, energy management, track management, and atmospheric-effects compensation of Ballistic Missile Defense System radars   Paul D. Burns received his Bachelor of Science and Masters of Science in Electrical Engineering at Auburn University in 1992 and 1995 respectively. His Master\222s thesis research explored the utilization of cyclostationary statistics for performing phased array blind adaptive beamforming From 1995 to 2000 he was employed at Dynetics, Inc where he performed research and analysis in a wide variety of military radar applications, from air-to-air and air-toground pulse Doppler radar to large-scale, high power aperture ground based phased array radar, including in electronic attack and protection measures. Subsequently, he spent 3 years at MagnaCom, Inc, where he engaged in ballistic missile defense system simulation development and system-level studies for the Ground-based Midcourse defense \(GMD\ system. He joined GTRI in 2003, where he has performed target tracking algorithm research for BMD radar and supplied expertise in radar signal and data processing for the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy Integrated Warfare Systems 2.0 office.  Mr. Burns has written a number of papers in spatio-temporal signal processing, sensor registration and target tracking, and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the Georgia Institute of Technology  


  18 We plan to shift the file search and accessibility aspect outside of the IDL/Matlab/C++ code thereby treating it more as a processing \223engine\224. SciFlo\222s geoRegionQuery service can be used as a generic temporal and spatial search that returns a list of matching file URLs \(local file paths if the files are located on the same system geoRegionQuery service relies on a populated MySQL databases containing the list of indexed data files. We then also plan to leverage SciFlo\222s data crawler to index our staged merged NEWS Level 2 data products Improving Access to the A-Train Data Collection Currently, the NEWS task collects the various A-Train data products for merging using a mixture of manual downloading via SFTP and automated shell scripts. This semi-manual process can be automated into a serviceoriented architecture that can automatically access and download the various Level 2 instrument data from their respective data archive center. This will be simplified if more data centers support OPeNDAP, which will aid in data access. OPeNDAP will also allow us to selectively only download the measured properties of interest to the NEWS community for hydrology studies. Additionally OpenSearch, an open method using the REST-based service interface to perform searches can be made available to our staged A-Train data. Our various services such as averaging and subsetting can be modified to perform the OpenSearch to determine the location of the corresponding spatially and temporally relevant data to process. This exposed data via OpenSearch can also be made available as a search service for other external entities interested in our data as well Atom Service Casting We may explore Atom Service Casting to advertise our Web Services. Various services can be easily aggregated to create a catalog of services th at are published in RSS/Atom syndication feeds. This allows clients interested in accessing and using our data services to easily discover and find our WSDL URLs. Essentially, Atom Service Casting may be viewed as a more human-friendly approach to UDDI R EFERENCES   NASA and Energy and W a t e r cy cl e St udy NEW S website: http://www.nasa-news.org  R odgers, C  D., and B  J. C onnor \(2003 223Intercomparison of remote sounding instruments\224, J Geophys. Res., 108\(D3 doi:10.1029/2002JD002299  R ead, W G., Z. Shi ppony and W V. Sny d er \(2006 223The clear-sky unpolarized forward model for the EOS Aura microwave limb sounder \(MLS Transactions on Geosciences and Remote Sensing: The EOS Aura Mission, 44, 1367-1379  Schwartz, M. J., A. Lam b ert, G. L. Manney, W  G. Read N. J. Livesey, L. Froidevaux, C. O. Ao, P. F. Bernath, C D. Boone, R. E. Cofield, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin, E. J Fetzer, R. A. Fuller, R. F. Jar not, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang B. W. Knosp, K. Krueger, J.-L. F. Li, M. G. Mlynczak, S Pawson, J. M. Russell III, M. L. Santee, W. V. Snyder, P C. Stek, R. P. Thurstans, A. M. Tompkins, P. A. Wagner K. A. Walker, J. W. Waters and D. L. Wu \(2008 223Validation of the Aura Microwave Limb Sounder temperature and geopotential height measurements\224, J Geophys. Res., 113, D15, D15S11  Read, W G., A. Lam b ert, J Bacmeister, R. E. Cofield, L E. Christensen, D. T. Cuddy, W. H. Daffer, B. J. Drouin E. Fetzer, L. Froidevaux, R. Fuller, R. Herman, R. F Jarnot, J. H. Jiang, Y. B. Jiang, K. Kelly, B. W. Knosp, L J. Kovalenko, N. J. Livesey, H.-C. Liu1, G. L. Manney H. M. Pickett, H. C. Pumphrey, K. H. Rosenlof, X Sabounchi, M. L. Santee, M. J. Schwartz, W. V. Snyder P. C. Stek, H. Su, L. L. Takacs1, R. P. Thurstans, H Voemel, P. A. Wagner, J. W. Waters, C. R. Webster, E M. Weinstock and D. L. Wu \(2007\icrowave Limb Sounder upper tropospheric and lower stratospheric H2O and relative humidity with respect to ice validation\224 J. Geophys. Res., 112, D24S35 doi:10.1029/2007JD008752  Fetzer, E. J., W  G. Read, D. W a liser, B. H. Kahn, B Tian, H. V\366mel, F. W. Irion, H. Su, A. Eldering, M. de la Torre Juarez, J. Jiang and V. Dang \(2008\omparison of upper tropospheric water vapor observations from the Microwave Limb Sounder and Atmospheric Infrared Sounder\224, J. Geophys. Res., accepted  B.N. Lawrence, R. Drach, B.E. Eaton, J. M. Gregory, S C. Hankin, R.K. Lowry, R.K. Rew, and K. E. Taylo 2006\aintaining and Advancing the CF Standard for Earth System Science Community Data\224. Whitepaper on the Future of CF Governance, Support, and Committees  NEW S Data Inform ation Center \(NDIC http://www.nasa-news.org/ndic 


  19   Schi ndl er, U., Di epenbroek, M 2006 aport a l based on Open Archives Initiative Protocols and Apache Lucene\224, EGU2006. SRef-ID:1607-7962/gra/EGU06-A03716 8] SciFlo, website: https://sci flo.jpl.nasa.gov/SciFloWiki 9 ern a, web s ite: h ttp tav ern a.so u r cefo r g e.n et  Java API for XM L W e b Services \(JAX-W S https://jax-ws.dev.java.net  Di st ri but ed R e source M a nagem e nt Appl i cat i on DRMAA\aa.org  Sun Gri d Engi ne, websi t e   http://gridengine.sunsource.net  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for XM L-bi nary Opt i m i zed Packaging \(XOP\te: http://www.w3.org/TR/xop10  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for SOAP M e ssage Transmission Optimization Mechanism \(MTOM website: http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-mtom  W 3 C R ecom m e ndat i on for R e source R e present a t i on SOAP Header Block, website http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-rep 16] OPeNDAP, website: http://opendap.org  Yang, M Q., Lee, H. K., Gal l a gher, J. \(2008 223Accessing HDF5 data via OPeNDAP\224. 24th Conference on IIPS  ISO 8601 t h e Int e rnat i onal St andard for t h e representation of dates and times http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime 19] ITT IDL, website http://www.ittvis.com/ProductServices/IDL.aspx 20] Python suds, website: h ttps://fedorahosted.org/suds  The gSOAP Tool ki t for SOAP W e b Servi ces and XM LBased Applications, website http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~engelen/soap.html  C hou, P.A., T. Lookabaugh, and R M Gray 1989 223Entropy-constrained vector quantization\224, IEEE Trans on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 37, 31-42  M acQueen, Jam e s B 1967 e m e t hods for classification and analysis of multivariate observations\224 Proc. Fifth Berkeley Symp Mathematical Statistics and Probability, 1, 281-296  C over, Thom as. and Joy A. Thom as, \223El e m e nt s of Information Theory\224, Wiley, New York. 1991  B r averm a n, Am y 2002 om pressi ng m a ssi ve geophysical datasets using vector quantization\224, J Computational and Graphical Statistics, 11, 1, 44-62 26 Brav erm a n  A, E. Fetzer, A. Eld e rin g  S. Nittel an d K Leung \(2003\i-streaming quantization for remotesensing data\224, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 41, 759-780  Fetzer, E. J., B. H. Lam b rigtsen, A. Eldering, H. H Aumann, and M. T. Chahine, \223Biases in total precipitable water vapor climatologies from Atmospheric Infrared Sounder and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer\224, J. Geophys. Res., 111, D09S16 doi:10.1029/2005JD006598. 2006 28 SciFlo Scien tific Dataflo w  site https://sciflo.jpl.nasa.gov  Gi ovanni websi t e   http://disc.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov techlab/giovanni/index.shtml  NASA Eart h Sci e nce Dat a Sy st em s W o rki ng Groups website http://esdswg.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.html   M i n, Di Yu, C h en, Gong, \223Augm ent i ng t h e OGC W e b Processing Service with Message-based Asynchronous Notification\224, IEEE International Geoscience & Remote Sensing Symposium. 2008 B IOGRAPHY  Hook Hua is a member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He is the Principle Investigator of the service-oriented work presented in this paper, which is used to study long-term and global-scale atmospheric trends. He is also currently involved on the design and development of Web Services-based distributed workflows of heterogeneous models for Observing System Simulation Experiments OSSE\ to analyze instrument models. Hook was also the lead in the development of an ontology know ledge base and expert system with reasoning to represent the various processing and data aspects of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar processing. Hook has also been involved with Web Services and dynamic language enhancements for the Satellite Orbit Analysis Program \(SOAP\ tool.  His other current work includes technology-portfolio assessment, human-robotic task planning & scheduling optimization, temporal resource scheduling, and analysis He developed the software frameworks used for constrained optimization utilizing graph search, binary integer programming, and genetic algorith ms. Hook received a B.S in Computer Science from the University of California, Los  


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


