 1  Sizing and Analysis of Big Scale and Isolated Electric Systems based on Renewable Sources with Energy Storage Santiago Galbete Goyena , ”scar Alonso S·daba Acciona S.A  Abstract A considerable number of institutions, companies and societies demand and trust the possibility of a sustainable world where the energetic production is based on renewable sources Most likely future problem of the no-controllable renewable electric production \(mainly wind and solar\ be the temporally variability. To follow the power demand is necessary controllable generation. The pa per analyses based on hypothetical situations how to manage through storage systems the no-controllable productions to get the complete substitution of the no-renewable power plants. Data from real renewable plants has been used to explore in big electric systems \(Spain the optimal sizing of said storage systems. It is shown that with a potential renewable overproduction around 150% versus a yearly demand only a 1.5% energy storage capacity versus demand should be necessary Index Terms Renewable Energy, Energy Storage I. I NTRODUCTION  C urrently electric generation systems from renewable sources are experiencing an important development all over the world, particularly wind and solar. It is interesting to mention the European Directive, which aims by 2020 a 20 fulfilment of the electrical demand from renewable sources  h e great progress of re newable sources systems has been motivated by different reasons; the most remarkable are the following. In on e hand, the increasing demand of the society for technical, financial and environmental sustainable systems. In the other hand the excellent financial results, the correct operation and the demonstrated adaptation to technological and legislative changes of most of the renewable generation systems which are currently operational. That has been achieved due to the commitment and good execution of most of the companies of the renewable industry as well as the governmental financial support at national and international scale In spite of the big industrial progress and the continuous technological improvements over the last years, renewable generation systems may still be classified into two important groups: controllable and no-c ontrollable generation. The controllable one corresponds mostly to biomass and hydraulic electric plants, while no-controllable is the one which depends on environmental condition s, mainly wind and solar Controllable renewable generati on is integrated in to the grid easily since it uses conventi onal technology, which in addition is a competitive ad vantage to pa rticipate in electric markets. However, no-controlla ble renewable generation presents a certain number of issues for its integration into the electric grid. Many of them, for instance, harmonics, flicker voltage dip, over voltage reactive control, islanding, grid restarting su 1 pport \(blackout\, etc., ar e problems already  1 This work was supported in part by technical expert from different departments of the company Acciona EnergÌa. In particular, Grid Connection, R&D and Eng&Construction Departments overcome or in a resolution process in the latest technology rene rtheless the influence in the grid of variable power systems is still an outstanding issue. As no-controllable generation level remains low, the mentioned influence results insignificant or only problematic \(either technically or due to mark et conditions in specific situations as weak grids \(islands, continental remote areas or inadequately interconnected, etc.\While penetration level increases, the me ntioned grid integration issue may even determine the admissible limit of this type of generation This problem has been studied in depth technically and economically during the last years hors ha ve provided various solutions depending on the different situations, although the most extended and common one for the majority of them is to use storage systems as power regulator  Those syst ems may smooth power fluctuations, reduce short and medium term forecast errors provide power warranty, particip ate in a safe way in secondary markets, etc. Thus, depending on the storage capacity and the implementation of a correct control strategy, it may be reduced the random nature of the nocontrollable produc tion until reaching a situation where it may be considered as fully controllable. Therefore, this scenario would place no-controllable generation in the same grid integration situation as currently controllable generation is, hence with the same chance to participate in the electric markets Many of the analyzed scenarios are either small electric systems or isolated, islands or similar. On those studies storage sizing methods to optimize economically the grid integration of renewable sy stem e  cases even the conditions for a full replacement of current no-renewable sources by either wind or solar or a combination of both arise The present paper has also as objective to explore the possibilities and characteristics that have to be verified for total or partial replacement of norenewable generators in bi g size isolated systems Particularly, studies have been performed within regional scale \(Navarra\within national scale \(Spain\hat they have been collected wind, solar, biomass, etc real production measurements data over the last years from Acciona EnergÌa renewable plants 1 Those data have been extrapolated to analyze hypot hetical situations of high renewable penetration level in the grid. As it will be shown a numerical simulation system has been used in order to analyze in a systematic way various scenarios with different production and storage levels. Normalized results are shown graphically in order to generalize the conclusions Several analyses have been performed to validate them. As it is shown in the present paper, energy storage systems at the current situation on ly may help to improve financial results \(for instance, reducing forecast errors\n the European Directive, 20% of ren ewable production by 2020 


 2 does not mean a challenge wh ich justifies energy storage systems. However, the hypo thetical long term complete energetic replacement by renewabl e sources would require big storage systems. Neverthel ess, the capacity of those storage systems will depend on the potential overproduction level of all renewable plan ts installed. Nowadays, in Spain the potential generation versus the electric demand is approximately 175% [4   H o we ve r, according to the results obtained the demand may be completely fulfilled using mainly no-controllable renewable generation with a overproduction of 150% and a storage capacity of 1.5 versus the yearly demand All those studies form a research topic recently initiated And therefore, most results should be considered preliminary Neither financial analysis nor env ironmental one involved have already started. In a ddition, the complete analysis should provide a clear technical-financial overview free of prejudices with respect to other energetic substitution options as nuclear which have recently ret urned to public debate forums internationally II. P ROBLEMATIC OF THE RANDOM NATURE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES   A. Energy sources and demand Renewable energy from wind and solar sources are rapidly increasing their influence in the electric grid system worldwide. Both energy sources are uncontrollable by nature Because of that when their contributions become important locally and at greater scales, several and well reported grid integration problems may arise. Although energy demand and renewable production are random in nature, demand usually maintains a clear tendency that allows its reliable forecasting Demand keeps a very close profil e in a daily cycle depending on working and no working days, \(Fig. 1\. As it is shown on Fig. 2, in a yearly basis, demand follow a similar profile having a small increase every year with respect to previous one. For example, 2006 electric demand versus 2005 verified an increase around 2.9%, while 2006 versus 2007 was about 3     B. Energetic unba lance and losses In a preliminary stage it is introduced the following basic energetic balance valid for any isolated electric system  Non Renewable Power + Potential Renewable Power   Power Demand + System Power Losses + Renewable Power Losses  In this equation Non Renewable Power represents all power contributions com ing from classic energy sources such as coal, gas, nuclear, co-generation, etc Öbased power plants Potential Renewable Power is the power that could be produced at any moment taking into account all operative power plants of wind, solar, hydro, etc. This amount of power depends on the primary source availability and the technology efficiency Power demand is the electric power demanded for users System Power Losses represents power losses in lines, transformers, etc, and Renewable Power Losses represents the renewable power that was not transformed into the electric system. Several aspects are involved with this concept. The integration of all Renewable Power Losses during a year from now on will be called the Renewable Energy Losses    Fig 1. Example of daily electric demand in Spain \(working and non working day   Fig. 2. Yearly electric de mand in Spain. REE source of data   A few years ago the Renewable Energy Losses were insignificant because grid operation rules on most countries were establishing priority for th e new renewable sources in detriment of conventional ones. However, nowadays several countries with high wi nd energy penetration have been changing the rules to allow grid operators to stop wind generation under the excuse of low quality of service or low reliability of the operation. Desp ite of the ethical debate about all these particular aspects, these new losses are becoming important and will increase during next years unless newer grid stability solutions were provided The above mentioned energy losses are hard to be either calculated or estimated. Neverth eless apart of those losses as no-controllable renewable energy penetration increases energy opportunity production losses due to demand limitation shall be added. It may happen that nocontrollable renewable produc tion exceeds the electric demand and as consequence renewable generation must be limited. Thus Renewable Energy Losses are mainly due to two different causes, grid operat ion and over production stops Fig. 3 and 4 show norma lized hourly potential productions coming from nocontrollable renewable energy sources versus maximum hourly demand value. Two different cases are considered, Spain and Navarra Region data from 2007\panish case is appreciated that the potential production is always well below the demand curve. Potential Renewable production never reaches the electric demand, which means that in principle Renewable Energy Losses should zero  However, analyzing Navarra case; potential renewable production is higher than electric demand in a large number of hourly intervals. Assuming Navarra were an isolated electric system \(which is not the case\ontrollable renewabl e plants should be stopped increasing considerable the Renewable Energy Losses 


 3  Fig. 5 shows normalized Renewable Energy Losses  considering differe nt ratios of Potential Renewable Production versus electric demand. This graph is about the analysis carried out in a big size isolated system where norenewable energy contribution has been minimized using renewable energy \(wind and solar\Xé axis represents the yearly energy production associated to different values of Potential Renewable Power versus the yearly electric demand. From now on this ratio will be named Renewable Potential Production Ratio RPPR Yé axis represents the percentage of Renewable Power Losses Although the results obtained depend on the sp ecific production and demand profiles used, no big differen ces have been found while using different ones. It is remarkable that only very big ratios of Potential Renewable Power versus electric demand achieve complete demand fulfilment, which involves extremely huge Renewable Energy Losses The main reason of those Renewable Power Losses is the necessity of stopping renewable production plants as demand is lower than available production. Even though current scenarios of renewable production differ con siderably with those shown on Fig. 5, clearly it is appreciat ed that not only renewable production plants are required but additional elements to optimize the global energy management are needed Following conclusions are obtained upon the mentioned figure  Renewable real production \(inst. demand line\ does not fulfil the electric demand within a reasonable renewable overproduction. Analyzing several real \(but extrapolated renewable production-demand systems, big enough to be able to warranty at least a small quantity of power any time; only with RPPR ratios higher than 25 the electrical demand is fulfilled. This is ab solutely unviable and absurd. Considering smal l renewable production-demand systems where renewable production may be zero at least during a short interv al of time the required RPPR tends to infinite. May be co nsidering new renewable technologies \(marine sources oduction could reduce the vari  As it is shown on Fig. 5 Renewable Energy Losses  begins to be considerable with RPPR ratios higher than 0.5. Those losses have been calculated as result of stopping the non controll able renewable plants as the Potential Renewable Power is higher than the electric demand. Actually Renewable Energy Losses are always higher than those shown on the graph, since grid operators will not allow the current renewable technologies \(solar a nd wind\to be the only ones to fulfil the electric demand. For instance, considering Spanish electric system, Fig. 3 shows that no Renewable Energy Losses should happen since RPPR ratio is very small Another example is the Spanish region of Navarra which has a RPPR value of 0.6. As a connected electric system Renewable Energy Losses are not verified. However on the hypothetical case of being isolated, such Renewable Energy  Losses would be around 5% \(distance between inst. demand and pot. renewable production lines at Navarra RPPR line on Fig.5  The distance between the Real Renewable Production inst. demand line\nd the 100% line is the percentage of today no-renewable energy contribution. This energy should be controllable renewable energy \(biomass hydro, H2 plants, etc.\ the future no-renewable contribution is avoided. However, in most of the countries will not be feasible to get this amount of controllable renewable production. Therefore to get the 100% renewable target in most RPPR will require a great amount of no-controllable production which again will produce excessive Renewable Energy Losses For example, for RPPR around 1.3, the total Renewable Energy Losses are the same as the renewable production directly delivered to the grid  The Renewable Energy Losses and the necessary controllable renewable energy ma y also be strongly reduced when energy storages are included in the electric system Such energy storages will not be necessary huge. For example, when it is combined wind power and storage under a common control system, it is possible to operate the system like a controllable energy sources or as close as desired. This means that the combined system may offer similar characteristics than conven tional plants, opening new technical features for a better integration and also new possibilities on the electric market  Fig. 3. Normalized Renewable Production and demand for Spanish Case during 2007    Fig. 4. Normalized Renewable Production and demand for Navarra Case during 2007  Fig. 5 Demand Supply and Renewable Energy Losses for different RPPR values 


 4  III. S IMULATION OF ISOLATED ELECTRIC SYSTEMS WITH ENERGY STORAGE  The aim of the followi ng study is to determine the minimum storage capacity which allows to isolated electric systems with any RPPR value fulfil the following conditions   To warranty the electric deman d in big systems \(country electric system size  To minimize the no-renewable production  To minimize Renewable Energy Losses   To be based on a stationary multi-annual study  For those studies it has been required to develop simulation conditions of electric systems in cluding renewable and no renewable sources as well as big energy storage system. Also due to the current status of big storage technologies, in order to simpli fy it has been considered only water storage systems with the corresponding pumps and turbines to fill and empty th e mentioned storage. Preliminary studies performed have used prod uction and demand Spanish data. Controllable renewabl e production data have been extrapolated from the data only available on a specific Spanish region. No-controllab le renewable data have been obtained from previous years measurements For this analysis hourly periods have been used. As it will be shown later, desired accuracy is reached comparing with longer periods \(daily, m onthly\hourly interval, the energetic balance of the system must be solved Fig. 6 shows a simplified diag ram for this process. On this algorithm, overproduction and underproduction versus electric demand situations are dist inguished. In order to fulfil electric demand, renewable pr oduction has been considered as priority regarding the no-renewable production. Depending on the situation it is verified whether free capacity exists to storage the overproduction or whether stored energy exists to complement the underprod uction. According to the results and on the storage capacity, stored level will increase decrease or be limited. Although on Fig.6 is not specified the real algorithm used includes all the energy losses processes \(efficiencies, rate limits etc.\Among all the magnitudes required to characterize the system operation the following are th e most relevant   Renewable Energy Losses  No-renewable contribution  Stored energy level sequence  A. Stationary multi annual simulation In order to get represen tative simulation results it is necessary to have as many data as possible. It is advisable to have at least three years data. Yearly demand and production increases must be taken into account to obtained results valid for the near future. In any case, simulation process involves the consecution of the stationary state. Fig 7 shows results obtained consi dering Navarra data \(real case with a RPPR = 0.6\he methodology explained above. On this figure, hourly potential renewable production and demand have been normalized versus the maximum demand while stored energy level has been normalized versus the storage capacity at RPPR=1. Taking into account the above mentioned RPPR value \(0.6 complete fulfilment of the electric demand only by renewable sources is not feasible However, in case of isolated system the optimum storage management will allow full use of the eventual overproduction peaks with no Renewable Energy Losses and thus optimising the use of all renewable sources. Fig. 7 shows how the interval between 7,000 and 8,000 hours verifies the larger overprodu ction density becoming the most influent for de termining the optim um storage capacity 19,400 MWh     Fig. 6 Energetic balance algorithm based on renewable production priority 


 5   Fig. 7. Normalized Renewable Production, demand and energy stored level for Navarra Case during 2007  Figs. 8 and 9 show hypothet ical cases of Navarra as an isolated system with RPPR = 1 0 and 1.2 respectively. In both cases the available renewable energy should be enough to supply the demand with no other contribution \(no-renewable should be null\ored energy has been normalized versus the optimal storage capacity at RPPR=1 As it can be observed for RPPR = 1.2 the necessary storage capacity is around one third lower than the required for RPPR 1. The reason for so big difference storage capacity is mainly due to the larger percentage of hours in which renewable production is directly delivered to the grid. It is verified that the higher th e RPPR the lower the optimum storage but also the higher the Renewable Energy  Losses  Following the procedure described, Fig. 10 shows the optimal storage volume required to fulfil the electrical demand with minimal no-renewa ble contribution for any RPPR value. On this curve tw o different operation conditions are distinguished   RPPR  1: Within this range there is no possibility to fulfil the electrical demand only by means of renewable sources. However Renewable Energy Losses are equal zero and no-renewable cont ribution gets minimized Point 1  RPPR  1: Within this range it is feasible to fulfil the electric demand just with renewable energy. Norenewable contribution is not necessary. However Renewable Energy Losses are produced for RPPR higher than 1. Point 4  For RPPR =1 is verified that the no-renewable contribution and the Renewable Energy Losses are both zero although a huge storage is required. Above the Critical Storage Curve same characteristics are expected \(point 5 although with a storage higher than the minimum required However, below the critical cur ve \(points 2 and 3\the storage capacity is not enough to assure minimal values of norenewable contribution and Renewable Energy Losses All marked points on Fig 10 have the same storage capacity and table 1 summarizes their opera tional conditions according to the characteristics already determined. All energy values shown on the table have been normalized versus the yearly electric demand. As it is de scribed subsequently, different renewable production profiles produce different Critical Storage Curve. The importance of those variations is related to the scale factor   Fig.  8. Navarra Case during 2007. RPPR = 1.0   Fig.  9. Navarra Case dur ing 2007. RPPR = 1.2   Fig. 10. Normalized Critical Storage Curve at different RPPR  TABLE I NORMALISED OPERATIONAL POINTS FOR STORAGE CAPACITY RATIO = 0.02  Point RPPR Ren Energy Losses  Non Renewable Contribution  Stored Energy Supplied  0 0.30 0.0 70 0 1 0.75 0.0 25 13.1 2 0.90 2.6 12.6 20.7 3 1.10 13.2 3.2 25.3 4 1.33 33.0 0 24.5 5 1.6 60.0 0 22.0 6  2,700 0 0  Point ç0é on table 1 corresponds to very low RPPR values where no storage is required to optimize the potential renewable production. This is consequence of very limited production sequences with no overproduction at any moment during the year. A si milar situation but no critical was shown of Fig. 3. Another remarkable point is ç6é that corresponds with very high RPPR values \(according to 


 6 simulations should be at least higher than 25 unrealistic situation, no storage is required because the minimal renewable production is always over the demand at any moment. However, almost al l potential production will become Renewable Energy Losses A similar situation was pointed out on Fig. 5  B Sampling time influence In order to verify the reliability of the results obtained through the simulation procedure several analyses have been performed. First one attempt to determine the minimal measurement interval advisable \(monthly, daily, hourly, etc Fig. 11 shows the Critical Storage Curve calculated with different measurement intervals. As it was foreseen considering monthly measurement intervals the required storage is significantly lo wer than the obtained with shorter intervals \(daily, hourly is consequence of a higher percentage of renewable produc tion directly satisfying the demand with respect to simu lations performed with lower sampling times. Critical Storage Capacity curves calculated in hourly and daily measur ement intervals basis differ very little. Even in case of using ten minutes sampling data the Critical Storage Curve is nearly th e same as those calculated based on daily and monthly data. However, it has not represented because there were no t enough calculated points For most analysis, hourly data have been used in most studies  C. Wind profile influence The optimal energy storage sizing depends on both demand and renewable production profiles. However demand profiles present a certai n hourly and yearly regularity as it was shown previously, while renewable production profiles may be very different according to locations and scales \(the lower the higher di fferences\ In order to show such dependence, critical storage curves for a typical demand profile and four real wind production profiles have been calculated, Fig.12. These wind pr oductions corr esponds with four wind farms placed in different regions. In this figure it is clearly appreciated that such difference may be very relevant When comparing wind farm çSé and çTé at RPPR = 1, the required capacity for wind farm çSé is almost twice the required for wind farm çTé. Also the analysis has been performed for a case which considers an average production profile of the four wind farms mentioned previously and which represents the expected evol ution in wider regions This profile result much more smoothed when it is compared with the independent wind farms which in turn also leads to smaller storage requirements \(çVRSTé curve  D. Pumps and turbines power influence A storage system requires o bviously components which allow energetic loading and unloading processes. To simplify and since the analyzed storage systems are big scale the only mean of storage considered is water an d, therefore hydraulic pumps and turbines will be the components performing energetic exchanges. On the st udies previously explained neither power losses in those elements nor possible maximal power constraints have been considered. Fig. 13 shows the dependence on the optimal storage calculation found in storage systems provided with pumps and turbines with limited power. As it is appreciated the power constraint influence is a determinant factor and must be taken into account in future analysis   Fig. 11. Critical storage curve for different sampling times   Fig. 12. Influence of differ ent wind generation profiles   Fig. 13. Influence of power limits in hydraulic pumps and turbines  Reductions in the pumping system involves a considerably increase on the Renewable Energy Losses while reductions in the turbine system involves requirement of auxiliary energy sources \(no-renewable or renewable controllable  IV. C URRENT SITUATION AND HYPOTHETICAL FUTURE TENDENCIES  In order to carry ou t studies as much realistic as possible, data provided by Acciona EnergÌa from a representative number of existi ng wind, solar, biomass, etc plants have been considered. However to simplify the calculations there was not considered any pump and turbine limitation. Fig. 14 shows again the optimal energy storage calculated as a function of the RPPR. On this figure it has been marked the current RPPR levels of Navarra \(0.6\nd Spain \(0.15\Naturally, it was assu med the error on the interpretations when the scale of both systems is considered. Point aê represents the current situation of Navarra, where its high renewa ble penetration level is appreciated \(mainly wind energy\of Navarra being an isolated electric system, point èbê would show the 


 7 required storage capacity to minimize the Renewable Energy Losses Nowadays, because Navarra is an interconnected system such Renewable Energy Losses are not really produced and the eventual produc tion surplus is absorbed by the bordering regions Considering the current re newable situation of Spain RPPR=0.15, point èAê on the figure\the full potential renewable production is directly delivered to the users, thus no energy storage is required. European plan 2020 which means, a 20% of renewable production versus demand by year 2020, will place Spain on point èBê \(RPPR=0.2\n in this new situation, an energy storage system is still not justified; in order to minimize Renewable Energy Losses a storage is required only if RPPR 0.3. Once that situation is reached, it will be beneficial to design future plans and to decide which kind of generation will replace the existing norenewable sources. In case of a renewable decision, it will be necessary to achieve higher values than RPPR=1 to warranty the demand \(RPPR>1 in case of existing pumping and turbines constraints\oint RPPR = 1 involves a very big energy storage capacity, approximately 8% of the annual demand. Although it is recommended detailed technicalfinancial studies it seems reasonable to design systems with certain renewable ov erproduction. Especially, if it is taken into account the current situation where the level of norenewable overproduction is arou nd 175% with respect to the annual demand \(RPPR=1.75, below Point èCê\he advisable range zone of RPPR values is the one marked by a circle on Fig. 14 where RPPR levels around 1.5, only should require 1.5% of storage capacity. As a future research, is pending the analysis of how transition between the present situation and the hypothetical situation of a 100% renewable isolated system shall be carried out  V. C ONCLUSIONS  A considerable number of institutions, co mpanies and societies demand and trust the possibility of reaching a sustainable world where the ener getic production is based on renewable sources. In the future the main problem of the nocontrollable renewable electric pr oduction, which penetration level increases day a day, may be the temporally variability To follow the power demand is necessary controllable power generation or some control on the demand itself. As it has been shown, for future systems with high or total renewable electric production this prob lem may be minimised through storage systems. The current pe netration level of renewable sources in the grid would not recommend energy storages except in specific cases. As the penetration level increases, it will be necessary to properly size the energy storage taking into account future demand and production increments. As it has been explained, potential overp roduction levels, similar to currently installed with the conventional generation, will allow the demand fulfilment with a global storage system around 1.5% of the annual energy demand Fig. 14. Current and possible future renewable status   VI. R EFERENCES Periodicals  Kaldellis Opti m u m autono m ous wind-powe r syste m sizing for remote consumers, using long-term wind speed dataé, Applied Energy 71\(2002\ 215-233  2  J.K. Kaldellis and K.A. Kavadias,éOptimal wind-hydro solution for Aegean Sea islandsê electricity-demand fulfilmenté, Applied Energy 70 2001\ 333-354  Technical Reports  ng and D. Sinclair, çT he benefits o f  m a rine technologies  within a diversified renewable mixé ,  British Wind Energy Association Apr. 2009  ste m  Reporté. Red ElÈctrica de EspaÒa, 2008  Papers Presented at Conferences \(Unpublished 5  J. Ruiz, çDirective Compliance of REEês Operational Procedure P.O 12.3 Regarding Fault Ride-Through Capability: The Experience of the Multitechnology Owneré presented at the Techwindgrid, Madrid Spain,2009 6  E. Giraut, çIntegrating Massive Wind Power in the Electric System ACCIONA experience in Spainé presented at the Techwindgrid, Madrid Spain,2009  Papers from Conference Proceedings  \(Published    Montenegro and Alexander Do m ijan Energ y Storage S y ste m fo r Wind Farm applications: application Methodologyé presented at the 7 th  IASTED International  Conference Power and Energy Systems, Clearwater Beach, USA,2004     Standards 8  Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of energy form renewable sources Dossier interinstitutionnel 2008/0016 \(COD    VI. B IOGRAPHIES  Oscar Alonso S·daba PhD Engineer, UPNA. Developing his professional career in Acciona Wind Power. Engineering Department  Santiago Galbete Goyena PhD student, Zaragoza. Developing his professional career in Acciona Energia Engineering and Construction Department   


4  DiMaggio, P. J. and Powell, W. W. Introduction, in The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, Powell, W W. and DiMaggio, P. J. \(eds.\niversity of Chicago Press Chicago 1991  5  Giddens, A., The Constitution of Society, Polity Press Cambridge, England, 1984  6  Goffman, E. Frame Analysis, Harvard University Press Cambridge, MA. 1974  7  Haythornthwaite, C Strong, Weak, and Latent Ties and the Impact of New Media The Information Society 2002, 18, pp. 385-401  8  Kiesler, S, "The Hidden Messages in Computer Networks," Harvard Business Review \(64:1\ JanuaryFebruary 1986, pp. 46-60  9  Lamb, R. and Kling, R Reconceptualization Users as Social Actors in Information Systems Research MIS Quarterly, \(27:2\2003, pp. 197-235  10  Markus, M. L Power, Politics, and MIS Implementation Communication of the ACM, \(26:6\1983 pp. 430-444    11  Nicholas P. Negroponte, The Hundred Dollar LaptopComputing for Developing Nations, in MIT World, available at: http://mitworld.mit.edu/slashdot.html  12  R.K. Merton The Unanticipated Consequences of Purposive Social Action American Sociological Review 1:6\ Dec. 1936, pp. 894-904  13  A.P. Pabico Technology-CAMBODIA: Ingenious Efforts Widen Road to Information 2004. South-east Asian Press Alliance  14  Pentland, A. and R. Fletcher DakNet: Rethinking Connectivity in Developing Nations Computer \(37:1 2004, pp. 78-83  15  J.L. Pierce, T. Kostova, and K.T. Dirks Toward a theory of psychological ownership in organizations  Academy of Management Review, \(26:2\2001, pp. 298-310    16  Rogers, E. M. Diffusion of innovations \(5th ed.\ew York: Free Press, 2003  17  Scott, W. R., Organizations: Rational, Natural, and Open Systems, Second Edition, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1987  18  Scott, W. R. Institutions and Organizations, Sage Publication, Thousand Oaks, CA  1995  19  T. F. Stafford, M. R. Stafford, and L .L. Schkade Determining uses and gratifications for the Internet  Decision Sciences, \(35:2\ 2004, pp. 259-288  20  Yin, R. Case Study Research, 2nd edition, Sage Publications, Newbury Park, 1994    Proceedings of the 42nd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences - 2009 8 


12  E. Kalnay Atmospheric Modeling, Data Assimilation and Predictability Cambridge University Press Cambridge, 136-204, 2003  13  R. Daley Atmospheric Data Assimilation Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 457 pp., 1991  14  J.E. Hoke, and R.A. Anthes, \223The Initialization of Numerical Models by a Dynamic Initialization Technique,\224 Mon. Wea. Rev  104 1551-1556, 1976  15  D.R. Stauffer, and N.L. Seaman, \223Multiscale FourDimensional Data Assimilation,\224 J. Appl. Meteor  33  416-434, 1993  9  16  P. Robins, Rapley, V., Thomas, P., \223A Probabilistic Chemical Sensor Model for Data Fusion,\224 Dstl Salisbury, UK, 2005  17  K.J. Long Improving Contaminant Source Characterization and Meteorological Data Forcing with a Genetic Algorithm M.S. Thesis, Dept. of Meteorology, The Pennsylvania State University, 55 pp 2007    C.E. Shannon, \223A m a t h em at i cal t h eory of communication,\224 Bell System Technical Journal  27  379-423 and 623-656, 1948  B IOGRAPHIES  Sue Ellen Haupt is Head of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics at the Applied Research Laboratory of The Pennsylvania State University and Associate Professor of Meteorology. She received her Ph.D. in Atmospheric Science from the University of Michigan, M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute and B.S. in Meteorology from Penn State. In addition to PSU, she has been at New England Electric System, the National Center for Atmospheric Research, University of Colorado/Boulder University of Nevada, Reno, and Utah State University. Dr Haupt co-chaired the IEEE Ae rospace Conference Junior Conference for six years George S. Young is Professor of Meteorology at The Pennsylvania State University specializing in artificial intelligence applications to weather prediction and observational studies atmospheric flow structures.  He has served on the faculty of the Pennsylvania State University since receiving his Ph.D. in Atmospheric Sciences from Colorado State University in 1986.  He also holds B.S and M.S. degrees in Meteorology from Florida State University.  He has published 1 book, 3 book chapters 74 journal papers and 99 conference papers as well as advised 33 graduate students.  He chaired the National Science Foundation / University Corporation for Atmospheric Research observing Facilities Advisory Panel in 2000 and has been a member of the American Meteorological Society's committees on Mountain Meteorology \(1992-1995\ and Boundary Layers and Turbulence \(1999-2002 Kerrie J. Long is a Research Assistant in the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics of the Applied Research Laboratory at Penn State. She has worked on atmospheric dispersion problems particularly source characterization using artificial intelligence techniques. She earned a B.S. in Physics from the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth and M.S. in Meteorology from Penn State Anke Beyer-Lout is a graduate student in the Department of Meteorology at the Pennsylvania State University. She graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Meteorology from the University of Hamburg in Germany in August 2005 and came to Penn State in January 2006. Anke is currently working with George S Young and Sue Ellen Haupt on a project concerning data assimilation and dispersion modeling. She expects to graduate with a M.S. in Meteorology in December 2007  Andrew Annunzio is a meteorology graduate student at the Pennsylvania State University.  He graduated from the Ohio State University in 2006 with honors and distinction in Geography and minored in Mathematics.  Andrew began studies at Penn State in Fall 2006, and is now in pursuit of his masters under Sue Ellen Haupt and George Young.  After obtaining the M.S. in May 2008, he wishes to pursue a Ph.D. in Meteorology with a minor in Mathematics 


13 P Embrechts C Kluppelberg and T Mikosch Modelling Extremal Events Springer-Verlag Berlin 1997 14 L Tarassenko P.R Bannister and D A Clifton Novelty Detection in K Worden ed Encylopaedia of Structural Health Monitoring Wiley 2008 15 D.A Clifton Density Estimation for Novelty Detection in Jet Engine Vibration Data Technical Report Oxford BioSignals Ltd UK 2006 16 R.L Smith Extreme Value Analysis of Environmental Time Series Statistical Science 4\(4 pp.367-377 1989 17 S.J Roberts Novelty Detection Using Extreme Value Statistics IEE Proceedings 146\(3 1999 18 S.J Roberts Extreme Value Statistics for Novelty Detection in BiomedicaDataprocessing IEE Proceedings on Science Measurement and Technology 147\(6 2000 19 A R Webb Statistical Pattern Recognition Wiley 2002 20 S.G Coles and E A Powell Bayesian Methods in Extreme Value Modelling A Review and New Developments International Statistical Review  Revue Intemationale de Statistique Vol 64 No 1 pp 119-136 1996 21 D.A Clifton P.R Bannister and L Tarassenko A Framework for Novelty Detection in Jet Engine Vibration Data in L Garibaldi S Surace K Holford eds Key Engineering Materials 347:305-312 2007 22 D.A Clifton B Haskins P.R Bannister and L Tarassenko Specific and Generic Models for GasTurbine Novelty Detection Proc of 4th IET Int Conf on Condition Monitoring Harrogate UK 2007 23 S.W Utete D.A Clifton and L Tarassenko Trending Performance Parameters for Aircraft Condition Monitoring Proc of 4th IET Int Conf on Condition Monitoring Harrogate UK 2007 BIOGRAPHY David A Clifton is a DPhil candidate in Engineering Science at Oxford University and Senior Engineer at university spin-out company Oxford BioSignals Ltd His research interests include statistical pattern recognition for health monitoring of biomedical and industrial systems for which he has been the awarded many of the UK's leading student engineering awards including those from the IEE the Institute of Physics the Royal Academy of Engineering the European Commission Hewlett-Packard Europe Shell UK and the UK Engineering Council His current research part-funded by the UK Department of Trade and Industry involves devising novelty detection systems for modern civil and military aircraft engines including the Eurofighter EJ200 the Airbus A380 Trent 900 and the Boeing Dreamliner Trent 1000 Nick McGrogan is Technical Manager for the Industrial division of Oxford BioSignals Ltd He holds an M.Sc degree in Engineering and Computing Science and a D.Phil degree in Engineering Science both from Oxford University He is also a member of the Institution of e ngineering and Technology JET His D.Phil research was in the area of advanced signal processing for the detection of epileptic seizures in long-term recordings of brain activity While completing his D.Phil degree he joined Oxford BioSignals when the company was founded to progress the development of medical signal processing products and progressed to leading the industrial division in the development of techniques for health monitoring of aircraft engines In his current role he is responsible for Oxford BioSignal's technology strategy and manages the company's research projects Lionel Tarassenko Lionel Tarassenko was born in Paris France in 1957 He received the B.A degree in engineering science in 19 78 and the Ph D degree in medical engineering in 1985 both from Oxford University Oxford U.K After graduating he worked for Racal Research Ltd on the development of digital signal processing techniques principally for speech coding He then held a number of positions in academia and industry before taking up a University Lecturership at Oxford in 1988 Since then he has devoted most of his research effort to the development of neural network techniques and their application to signal processing diagnostic systems andparallel architectures He has held the Chair in Electrical Engineering at Oxford University since October 1997 He was elected to a Fellowship of the Institution of Electrical Engineers IEE in 1996 when he was also awarded the IEE Mather Premium for his work on neural networks and to a Fellowship of the Royal Academy of Engineering RAE in 2000 10 


Dennis M King is the RollsRoyce PLC Company specialist in Engine Health Monitoring specialising in the vibration aspects of EHM He was awarded an MSc in Engineering Mechanics in 1976 by the Cranfield Institute of Technology UK and Chartered Engineer in 1988 RAeS After graduating he joined RollsRoyce in Derby working in Stress analysis and design before moving to the vibration laboratories and taking on the role of consulting on the design build and balance of aero engines Over the last twenty years he has been actively involved in developing EHM technology including Hardware software fault recognition and diagnostics He has the experience of applying this technology globally within the R-R business He has been awarded the R-R Component Engineering Quality award 1997 R-R Chairman's team awardfor technical innovation 2001 a member of the Institute for Engineering Technology IET Having worked in Rolls-Royce since 1979 he has built up many years experience working in advanced signal processing methods Data Mining Neural Networks and equipment health monitoring Steve's current post is within the Company's Global EHM Capability Group Prior to this he spent 12 years working in the Company's Corporate Strategic Research Centre with responsibility for the development and application of Computational Intelligence techniques across all business areas of Rolls-Royce He was awarded the Rolls-Royce Chairman's awardfor Technical Innovation in 2001 and is named on three patents He is also a member of the International Scientific Committee of the International Conference for Condition Monitoring Paul Anuzis has spent five years of his working career at Rolls-Royce in Germany helping to establish a new and highly sucessful RollsRoyce business unit in Germany based initially in Munich now established in Dahlewitz on the outskirts of Berlin Paul returned in late 1997 to take up his current position of Chief Reliability Engineer for Rolls-Royce Civil Aerospace Airlines He holds a degree in Physics and second degree in Electronics is a Chartered Physicists Chartered Scientist Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Institute of Physics and has twice won the Rolls-Royce Chairman's awardfor Technical Innovation He has extensive applied research experience from several years of runing DTI technology programs The most sucessful programs spanning eight years working with the Universities of Oxford Nottingham and Cranfield on engine health monitoring technologies which are about to enter service with the latest Trent 900/A380 application Steve P.King is a Specialist for advanced Engine H ealth Monitoring Method at Rolls-Royce plc He holds a degree in Mathematics and Computer Science and a PhD in the use of Expert Systems fo r Vibration Analysis He is a Chartered Engineer and 11 


  12  Figure 1:  Lunar South Pole Elevation Map from GSSR 2006 Digital Elevation Model  Figure 2:  Lunar North Pole Elevation Ma p from GSSR 1997 Digital Elevation Model 


  13  Figure 3:  Shackleton Crater T opographic Map, with Base Sites  Figure 4: Solar Lines-of-Si ght at Lunar South Pole 


  14  Figure 5:  Site B1 Terrain horizon ma sk with 1 degree azimuth spacing  Figure 6:  Site B1 Terrain horizon mask with 1 de gree azimuth spacing, in e quatorial coordinates 


  15  Figure 7: Lunar South Pole Solar Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 8:  Lunar South Pole DTE Visibility Yearly Average 


  16  Figure 9: Lunar North Pole Sola r Illumination Yearly Average  Figure 10:  Lunar North Pole D TE Visibility Yearly Average 


  17  Figure 11: Site A1 Elevation Topography  Figure 12: Site A1 Yearly Average Solar Illumination and DTE visibility, Medium Resolution 


  18   Figure 13:  Site LB Te rrain Horizon Mask  Figure 14:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly Solar Illumination 


  19  Figure 15:  Theory and Computed values of Average Yearly DTE Communication  Figure 16:  Heliostat Mirror Design to Eliminate Cable Wrap 


  20 Angeles, where he also received a B.S. in Applied Mathematics  Eric Fetzer is a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California specializing in satellite observations of the atmosphere.  His scientific interests include planetary boundary layer processes, tropical phenomena, upper tropospheric variability, and climatologies of temperature, water vapor and clouds.  His technical interests include analysis of large data sets, and of multi-sensor observations. He has over 20 peer-reviewed publications and given numerous scientific presentations, public lectures and media interviews about climate science. Eric received a B.A. in Physics from the University of California Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in Astrophysical, Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences from the University of Colorado, Boulder   Amy Braverman is a Senior Statistician at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology She holds a B.A. in Economics from Swarthmore College an M.A. in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Statistics also from UCLA. Prior to her current position in JPL's Science Data Understanding Group, she was a Caltech Post-doctoral Scholar at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and a Scientist in the Flight Sciences Experiments Section of the Science Division. Dr Braverman conducts research on information-theoretic methods for the analysis of massive data sets and streams statistical data fusion, high-dimensional data analysis, and statistical analysis for climate model evaluation and diagnosis. She has published in both the statistics and geoscience literature, and is active in both communities She is a member of the Multi-angle Imaging SpectroRadiometer Science Team, and serves as a member of the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder Science Integration Team. Her responsibilities on both missions include designing data reduction algorithms for massive, remote sensing data sets. Dr. Braverman also holds an appointment in the Department of Statistics at UCLA as Adjunct Associate Professor, and is active in UCLA\222s Center for Environmental Statistics. She is member of the Committee on Applied and Theoretical Statistics of the US National Academy of Science. She has refereed for the Journal of the American Statistical Association, the Journal of Computational and Gr aphical Statistics, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, and the Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology Seungwon Lee is a senior member of the High Capability Computing and Modeling Group at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She is conducti ng research on comet gas dynamics, nonlinear dynamics control, climate model parameterization, Earth science data analysis, parallel computing, and advanced numerical algorithms. She received her Ph.D in Physics fr om the Ohio State University and her M.S. and B.S. in Physics from the Seoul National University, Korea  Matthew Henderson is software engineer in the High Capability Computing and Mode ling group at JPL. His current work includes Web Services and Instrument Data Level 2 subsetting. He received a B.S. Computer Science from CSU Pomona, and is currently pursuing M.S Computer Science  Steven J. Lewis is a member of the Information System and Computer Science staff member at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.  He received a BS in Mathematics from the University of California, Los Angeles in June 2001, and the MS and Ph.D. Degree from Claremont Graduate University in May 2004 and May 2007, respectively.  He worked as a post doctoral fellow at Keck Graduate Institute from June 2007 until he joined JPL in March of 2008.  During his graduate and post doctoral work, his studies focused on applications of Bayesian methods to hidden Markov models with particular interest and application to protein sequencing.  His work at JPL has focused on integrating web services into various programming platforms for the purposes of accessing NASA satellite data, as well as developing object tracking so ftware and contributing to image enhancement and restoration efforts Van Dang is a member of the Science Data Understanding Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. She was responsible for the NEWS Level 2 processing that generated the formal merged Level 2 data from multiple A-Train instruments  Manuel de la Torre is a Physicist from the Universidad Complutense at Madrid \(Spain\. After finishing his Ph.D work at the University of Bayreuth \(Germany\ on pattern formation in turbulent flows and a 7 1/2 year stunt as Ass and Assoc. Prof. at the Escuela T\351cnica Superior de Ingenieros Aeron\341uticos in Madrid \(Spain\, he came to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on a 1-year Sabatical leave in 1997 wanting to apply fundamental concepts of nonlinear systems and geophysical fluid dynamics to something that might be directly useful to soci ety. He discovered the JPL as a great place to achieve that goal and extende d his stay a bit longer, becoming Technical staff and working on different aspects of remote sensing, validation of satellite instruments, and data analysis of atmospheric processes and climate  


