Alarm Association Algorithms Ba sed on Spectral Graph Theory   Xu Qianfang Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications School of Information Engineering Beijing, China xuqf123@gmail.com Guo jun Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications School of Information Engineering Beijing, China guojun@bupt.edu.cn Abstract currently those algorithms to mine the alarm association rules are limited to the minimal support, so that they can only obtain the association rules among the frequently occurring alarms. This paper proposes a new mining algorithm based on spectral graph theory. The algorithms firstly sets up 
alarm association model with time series; Secondly, it regards alarms database as a high-dimensional structure and treats alarms with associated characteristics as part of it. The algorithm discovers the underlying mapping low-dimensional structure embedding in high-dimensional space based on spectral graph theory. Experimental results based on synthetic and real datasets demonstrates that this algorithm not only discoveries association among alarms, but also acquires the fault in the telecommunications network based on the spectral graph transformation Keywords- fault management; alarm; association; Spectral graph theory I   I NTRODUCTION 
 A telecommunication network produces daily large amounts of alarm data. We could obtain hidden valuable association rules from those alarms, find the root reason of alarm, and then locate problems by alarm association analysis. Currently, the main mining algorithm are: Apriori 1  im p r o v e d a l g o r ith m 2 4  an d in c r em en tal asso cia t i o n  rules algorithm [5   Th o s e a l g o r ith m s to m i n e th e a l a r m  association rules are limited to the minimal support, so that they can only obtain the association rules among the frequently occurring alarm events Discovering the association rules algorithm, with the minimum support and the minimum confidence, have some problems. Because the appropriate minimum support threshold could not be selected by the current frequent 
pattern mining algorithms. If the threshold is too low frequent association rules mining approaches may lose efficiency and the frequent association rules usually contain some items which are weekly related to each other. On the other hand, if the threshold is too high, many strong association rules involving items with low support levels will be missed [6   Analyzing sequential  60,000 alarm records in a true alarm database of telecom service providers , we find that there are 1738 network elements to report alarms, but only 28 alarm network elements among them whose support are more than 1%, and 1669 network elements whose support are less than 1%. It is obvious that it’s important to study the associated-rules on non-frequent alarms. In addition, as the 
non-frequent alarm datasets is massive, the mining algorithm 1-5  is in ef f i c i en t t o m i n e  n o n f r equ e n t al arm  be cau s e  i t  needs to scan all of the datasets It’s the key to find and locate the associated alarms in mining non-frequent alarms. The clustering algorithms are usually used, which firstly divide the alarms into several categories with the inherent characteristics, secondly mine in different categories. Each category of elements have the same characteristics as much as possible, the difference of characteristics in different types is as larger as possible Although some clustering algorithms are proposed, such as K-means algorithm, DBSCAN algorithm. There are some problems in clustering alarm data: 1\ it is difficult to 
determine the number of cluster and different data sets alarms may have different number of cluster; 2\ometimes the types of categories are uncertain. 3\ It is very difficult to cluster a high dimensional data due to massive data in Telecommunication network. This makes it a little difficult to use the traditional clustering algorithm in Telecommunication network alarms datasets This paper presents a new mining algorithm AAASG Alarm Association Algorithms based on Spectral Graph Theory\. In AAASG , the alarms database is regarded as a high-dimensional structure, all points in the structure is partly related, and alarms with associated characteristics can be treated as low dimensional structure embedded in it 
AAASG algorithm clusters the alarm data by finding potential low-dimensional manifold structure of cluster in high-dimensional data space. The algorithm first clusters the alarm data by frequency of alarm, then reduces the dimension and projects the alarms into low-dimensional space, finally provides the relationship between alarms to administrator in visualization methods so that the administrator can effectively limit mining scope with visual results and do directional mining to reduce the scope of the data scanning II  R ELATED WORK  A  Alarm associated window We consider the input as a sequence of alarms, where each alarm has an associated time of occurrence. Given a set 
E of alarm types, an alarm event is a pair A,t where A  is a alarm type and t is the occurrence time of the alarm. An alarm sequence S  on E is a triple s, T s T e  where s 1 1  2 2  n n is an ordered sequence of events such that A i for all i=1,…n  T s is called the 
2009 International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence 978-0-7695-3615-6/09 $25.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/JCAI.2009.187 320 


starting time and T e is the ending time , and T s t i T e  i=1,…n  Formally, a window on a alarm event sequence S= \(s, T s  T e is a alarm event sequence W w, t s t e where t s T e and t e T s and w consists of those pairs A,t from s where t s t i t e The time span t e t s is called the width of the window w and it is denoted width w en an alarm event sequence S and a win, we denote by W  S win the set of all windows w on s such that width w win Example A,13\, \(A,36\, \(B,36\, \(B,119\, \(C,142 A,168\, \(E,293\. \(F,312  As shown in Figure 1     Figure.1 The Example of alarm series   The essence of the width of the window is to determine the largest interval of associated alarm. It is thought that only alarms that have taken placed in the width of the window are associated. The width will affect the granularities of the associated rules The sliding step of the window must be selected in scanning alarm datasets. If the step is longer, the algorithm efficiency will be higher and the accuracy of the rules will be lower; on the other hand, if the step is short, the algorithm efficiency will be lower, while the accuracy of the rules will be improved. In order to ensure windows overlapped sufficiently, the slide step is usually selected more than half of sliding window B  Alarm association The purpose of alarm association analysis is to discover the root alarm caused by fault and locate fault by analyzing the association of the massive alarms and filtering the redundant alarms. Alarm association analysis can not only be used to assisting locating fault but also to predicting the fault. Some equipment’s alarms have strong associations because network faults have the characteristics of spread and there are associations in various equipments and the modules of the equipment Definition1 association alarm There are two or more alarms, if the frequency of alarms which appeared simultaneously in associated windows w is greater than the threshold, they are called association alarms If 12   i AA A  are association alarms, we say that  12 12 12       min    ii f req A A A freq A A A freq A freq A      12 min       i i freq A A A f freq A   1 Where freq\(A i  is the frequency of alarm A i occurred in different associated window freq\(A 1 A 2  A i is the frequency of alarm A 1 A 2  A i occurred simultaneously in different associated window III  A LARM  A SSOCIATION  A LGORITHMS  B ASED ON G RAPH M ODEL  Alarm data can be seen as a high-dimensional Euclidean space A 1 A 2 A N   A i R D Each alarm type is a point in the space of R D every point is partially associated with each other, and different faults correspond with different point structure of high-dimensional space. We mine the associated point structure embedding in the space of R D based on spectral graph theory. Firstly, the algorithm builds the association alarm model with time series; secondly discovers the structure of low-dimensional manifolds embedding in the high-dimensional space based on spectral graph theory and displays the point structure by visualization The AAASG algorithm works as follows 1\ Sets up the alarm association graph with time series 2\ Calculates the similar matrices of alarm and discovers low-dimensional manifolds structure in the highdimensional space A  sets up the alarm association graph  Studying the spectrum map of the matrix, we discovery the implicit information in the graph. There are some associations among the alarm data in the associated window w Therefore, the algorithm extracts alarms within time interval T with time series and obtains the frequency of alarms in associated window. To create the alarm associated graph, our AAASG algorithm takes the parameters shown in Table 1 Table 1: Parameters X A i i=1,…,n  The given alarm datasets is the set of alarm type, where n  is the number of alarm types, which is an integer Step 1: We create the alarm frequency matrix within time interval T, where T is the interval of observation time 11 12 1 21 22 2 12  n n T mm mn ff f ff f A ff f   2 Where f mn is the frequency of alarm A n in m’th window Step 2: We then generate set V=\(A 1 A 2 A p   V by using the alarm type set as the vertex of the graph Finally, we generate the set E by using the Cooccurrence\(different alarm types appeared in same alarm windows \ationship  to construct the edge, where the weight of edge is the Co-occurrence strength W ij of different 
321 


alarm types appearing simultaneous in the window w. it can be expressed as the adjacency matrix 11 12 1 21 22 2 12    p p T pp pp ww w ww w GVE ww w   3 Where W ij is the weight of edge between vertex V i and V j  If W ij is not equal to zero, it means there is an edge with weight W ij between the vertex V i and V j otherwise there is no edge between them. Thus, the alarm dataset can be expressed as a associated map G T V,E where T is the identification of the Time interval G T V,E is the alarm associated map in the time interval, such as 1 hour’s, 2hours’ alarm distribution map. Obviously, the map of alarm association is changing with time; similarly, the weight of edge in the graph model is changing with time too B  Alarm Data Visualization Algorithm Alarm data is the sample data of high-dimensional \(D dimensional\ space. Generally, the alarm is not filled in the space of R D otherwise there is no useful information in dataset. In fact, those data exist in low-dimensional manifolds of the high-dimensional space, where the dimension of manifolds is the intrinsic dimension of the data Classic techniques, such as principal component analysis PCA\lgorithm[7  an d m u ltid i m e n s io n a l sc alin g  an aly s is MDS l g o ri t h m  t o  d e a l w i t h hi gh d i m e nsi o na l  d a t a i s t o  lower the dimension by linear methods, but these algorithms can only find the linear structure in high-dimensional space Isomap algorithm [9 is an  ef f ectiv e alg o rith m bas e d  on  manifold learning to nonlinear higher-to-lower dimensionality, which is not only able to reveal the intrinsic structure of the high-dimensional observation data, but also to discover the map of low-dimensional parameter space. It first calculates manifolds geodesic distances, and then applies it as input to classical MDS. The [1 p r ov es th e  existence of Isometries between a continuous highdimensional data and low-dimensional manifolds parameter space AAASG algorithm, based on Isomap, first calculates geodesic distance on Manifolds; and then creates weighted similar distance matrix with the alarm characteristics; finally finds the low - dimensional structures embedded in highdimensional space by applying MDS to the similar distance matrix. It uses geodesic distances between data to reserve inherent geometric distribution. The algorithm consists of four steps to obtain low-dimensional manifolds structure in the high-dimensional space Step1: Compute shortest paths According to the alarm associated relationship graph G T V,E the algorithm estimates the geodesic distances d M i,j on the manifold M by computing their shortest path distance d G i,j between all pair of points in the graph G to obtain the matrix D G d G i,j which is in the shortest distance between any two points in graph G Step 2: Generate a similar distance matrix The purpose of the algorithm is to discover the association between alarms, so it need to calculate the similarity matrix S=\(s ij  by using D G T d G i,j where S’=S and s ij s ii A similar distance matrix D S T d\(i,j can be gotten from S because there is some association between Similarity coefficient and distance. When the similarity coefficient matrix is a non-negative matrix, it is concluded that D S  is a Euclidean distance matrix by theorem in [11    Step 3:  Construct d-dimensional embedding Apply classical MDS to construct an embedding of the d dimensional Euclidean space Y, as detailed in [9 IV  E XPERIMENT AND A NALYSIS  In order to demonstrate the validity of our proposed algorithm AAASG, two experiments are shown here. One is on the artificial data sets, and the other is on the data sets obtained from a province’s Network Management Center alarm dataset A  Experiment on the artificial data sets In order to verify the effectiveness of the algorithm AAASG, our experiment use the same data in  t o co m p ar e with WINEPI Frequent result set. As shown in figure1. We generated 2 maximum frequent item sets: CEF, CEAB by setting windows W = 5S and step s = 2s It is clear in figure 2 that maximum frequent item sets are CEF and ABCE, and D is far from the other alarms Therefore, in mining association rules alarm, we can mine in 2 different dataset respectively with CEF and ABCE. This can not only improve the efficiency of algorithms by reducing the data sets, but also can improve the accuracy of the algorithm by reducing the impact of interference noise on the association rules  Figure.2 The structure of alarm in synthetic datasets B  Experiment on actual alarm data sets The simulated alarm in [1 s f r eq ue nt  b u t t h ere  a r e a lo t of non-frequent alarms in the actual network management dataset. The key to this algorithm is to classify these alarms and observe their trend. A province’s Telecom network management center’s alarm dataset \(about 150,000 records is used in the experiment. Alarm identification \(name of alarm network element, equipment manufacturers, network element type, alarm type, alarm level, the reasons of failure and the occurrence time \(unit s\ are selected as keywords 
322 


window is set to 5 min and sliding step is set to 2 min. After visualization, the \(N-1\T-interval point structure and the N T-interval point structure respectively are shown as in Figure 3 and Figures 4. Every graph is a mined alarm point structure distribution in 1 hour. \(The alarm type is expressed by numbers in the figure, such as 2952 in categories A stands for the 2952th alarms  Figure.3 The structure of alarms in No. \(N-1\terval  Category A and B in Figure 3 and 4 are the same parts in two continuous intervals and C is the increased alarm mode \(that is a fault\e N T-interval time  Figure.4 The structure of alarms in No. \(N-1\terval   The change of alarm mode can be observed in the distribution maps of alarm, it means that the distribution of alarms will be changed to Figure 4 from Figure 3 due to a failure.  If there is no new fault, the alarm distribution and point structure will not change. When a new fault takes place, the distribution of alarm will be obviously changed V  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, we present a fast algorithm; Alarm Association Algorithms based on Spectral \(AAASG\which is totally different from the framework of support confidence. The algorithm can mine the association not only among the frequently occurring alarms but also among the non-frequently occurring alarms. Experimental results demonstrate that the algorithms has the following advantage: 1\ effectively reduce the search data set by the distribution of alarm; 2\ it can intuitively get association between alarm through the point structure graph of alarms 3\ it can quickly find fault by the changes in the point structure and help the networker to quickly locate and clean the fault R EFERENCES  1  Rakesh Agrawal, Tomasz Imielinski, Arun Swami, Mining Association Rules Between Sets of Items in Large Databases Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD conference, Washington D.C., May 1993,  207-216 2  K. Hatonen, M. Klemettinen, H. Mannila, P. Ronkainen, H. Toivonen Knowledge Discovery from Telecommunication Network Alarm Databases ICDE’96, Feb, 1996, 115-122 3  Omiecinski E.R. Alternative interest measures for mining associations in databases IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,2003,15\(1\: 57~69 4  Vilalta Ricardo, Ma Sheng, Hellerstein Joseph. Rule Induction of Computer Events, Proceedings of the 12th IFIP/IEEE DSOM'2001 Nancy France, October, 2001 5  Song qinyu, Zhu yuquan, sun zhihui, Yang hebiao, An Algorithm and Its Updating Algorithm Based on Frequent Pattern Tree for Mining Constrained Maximum Frequent Itemsets Journal of Computer Research and Develepment 2005, 42\(5\~913 6  He zhi, Huang houkuan, Tian shengfeng, An Approach to Finding Optimized Correlated Association Rules, Journal of Computer 2006 29\(6\ 906~913 7  T. Hastie, W. Stuetzle, Principal curves. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 1989, 84\(406\:502~516 8  T. F. Cox and M. A. A. Cox, Multidimensional Scaling. Number 88 in Monographs on Statistics and Applied Probability Chapman&Hall/CRC,2nd edition, 2001 9  Tenenbaum JB, de Silva V, Langford JC. A global geometric framework for nonlinear dimensionalty reduction, Science, 2000 290\(12\19~2323a   Zhao lianwei, Luo siwei, Zhao yanchang, Liu yunhui, Study on the Low-Dimensional Embedding and the Embedding Dimensionality of Manifold of High-Dimensional Data [J J o u r na l of Soft w a re 2 0 06 16\(8\ 1423~1430   J.J. Verbeek, N. Vlassis and B.Krose Procrustes Analysis to Coordinate Mixtures of Probabilistic Principal Component Analyzers 2002   
323 


        


3462                                                                                                             


A Model of Cluster-Based Rough Set and its Application 562 Yan Xu A New Kind of the Generalized R-implication on Interval-set 568 Zhan-ao Xue, Hao-cui Du, Hao-zhe Yin, and Yun-hua Xiao A Nonlinear Multiregression Model Based on the Choquet Integral with a Quadratic Core 574 Nian Yan, Zhengxin Chen, Yong Shi, and Zhenyuan Wang Predicting Protein Secondary Structure Based on Compound Pyramid Model 580 Bingru Yang, Lijun Wang, Wu Qu, and Yun Zhai The Application of ARIMA Model in Chinese Mobile User Prediction 586 Xu Ye Efficient Parallel Algorithm for Nonlinear Dimensionality Reduction on GPU 592 Tsung Tai Yeh, Tseng-Yi Chen, Yen-Chiu Chen, and Wei-Kuan Shih A Clustering Method Based on the Most Similar Relation Diagram of Datasets 598 Yan Yu, Yu Shan Bai, Wei Hong Xu, and Nan Li Knowledge Reduction Algorithm Based on Relative Conditional Partition Granularity 604 Jingling Yuan, Hongfu Du, and Luo Zhong Learning Multiple Latent Variables with Self-Organizing Maps 609 Lili Zhang and Erzsébet Merényi Implicative Pseudo-BCK Algebras and Implicative Pseudo-Filters of Pseudo-BCK Algebras 615 Xiaohong Zhang and Hongjuan Gong From Tinnitus Data to Action Rules and Tinnitus Treatment 620 Xin Zhang, Zbigniew W. Ras, Pawel J. Jastreboff, and Pamela L. Thompson A Novel Two Sub-swarms Exchange Particle Swarm Optimization Based on Multi-phases 626 Jia Zhao, Li Lü, Hui Sun, and Xing-wang Zhang Assessment of Emergency Response Policy Based on Markov Process 630 Yafei Zhou, Mao Liu, and Liming Hu Probabilistic Soft Sets 635 Ping Zhu and Qiaoyan Wen A Double-Window-Based Classification Algorithm for Concept Drifting Data Streams 639 Qun Zhu, Xuegang Hu, Yuhong Zhang, Peipei Li, and Xindong Wu Application of Covering Rough Sets to Linguistic Dynamic Systems 645 William Zhu Short Papers Solving Course Timetabling Problem Using Interrelated Approach 651 Aftab Ahmed and Li Zhoujun Application of Cascading Rough Set-Based Classifiers on Authorship Attribution 656 Oguz Aslanturk, Ebru A. Sezer, Hayri Sever, and Vijay Raghavan Triadic Concept Analysis of Data with Fuzzy Attributes 661 Radim Belohlavek and Petr Osicka Extension of Rough Set Theory Based on Strict Similarity Relation 666 Meng Chen and Xin Xia A Unified Paradigm for the Accuracy of Classification Based on Granular Computing 669 Yongbing Chen, Shuang Liu, and Ping Ye Matrix Theory for Tolerance Granular Computing 673 Zehua Chen and T.Y. Lin 
xi 


Analysis to the Contributions from Feature Attributes in Nonlinear Classification Based on the Choquet Integral 677 Jing Chu, Zhenyuan Wang, and Yong Shi A New Criterion of Delay-Range-Dependent Stability for Systems with Time-Varying Delay 683 Songjian Dan and Haixia Wu An Enhanced P4P-Based Pastry Routing Algorithm for P2P Network 687 Zhengwei Guo, Lin Min, Shuai Yang, and Huaipo Yang Attack Detection by Rough Set Theory in Recommendation System 692 Famei He, Xuren Wang, and Baoxu Liu Rough Sets in Partially Ordered Sets 696 Kai Li, William Zhu, and Jianguo Tang An Algorithm for Attribute Reduction Based on Distance of Partitions 700 Min Li, Shaobo Deng, Feng Shengzhong, and Jian-Ping Fan Knowledge Reduction of Incomplete Information Systems with Negative Decision Rules 704 Tong-Jun Li and Wei-Zhi Wu Using Feature Component for Spatial Data Modeling of GIS 708 Wei Li, Shuai Gong, and Xiaohui Wang Mining Algorithm of Maximal Frequent Itemsets Based on Position Lattice 712 Yuan Li, Jun Li, Ning An, and Chong Han Rough Lattices 716 Zuhua Liao, Lian Wu, and Miaohan Hu The Classification Study of Texture Image Based on the Rough Set Theory 720 Huang Lin, Ji-yi Wang, and Shuang Liu Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Controllers Optimization Using Genetic Algoritms and Particle Swarm Optimization 724 Ricardo Martinez, Antonio Rodriguez, Oscar Castillo, and Luis T. Aguilar Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Logic Applications in Image Processing and Pattern Recognition 728 Patricia Melin The Close-Degree of Concept Lattice and Attribute Reduction Algorithm Based on It 732 Huili Meng and Jiucheng Xu Isomorphism Between Information Tables for Tolerance and Classical Rough Sets 735 Jun Meng, Tsauyoung Li, Zehua Chen, Xiukun Wang, and Peng Wang Assignment Reduct and its Calculation Method in Inconsistent Incomplete Decision System 739 Zuqiang Meng, Zhongzhi Shi, and Hua Qin Generalized Relation Based Knowledge Discovery in Interval-valued Information Systems 743 Duoqian Miao, Wei Yang, and Nan Zhang Classification and Discrimination Based on RS-PLS-DA 749 Bin Nie, Jianqiang Du, Riyue Yu, Hongning Liu, Guoliang Xu, and Zhuo Wang Research of Support Vector Regression Algorithm Based on Granularity 752 Lv Qing, Han Xiaoming, Xie Gang, Yan Gaowei, and Xie Jun A Similarity Measuring Method Between Image Regions Based on Granular Computing 755 Jinling Shi and Genyuan Du An Improved Apriori Algorithm 759 Yongge Shi and Yiqun Zhou 
xii 


Application of Chaotic Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm in Chinese Documents Classification 763 Dekun Tan Qualitative Simulation Based on Ranked Hyperreals 767 Shusaku Tsumoto Association Action Rules and Action Paths Triggered by Meta-actions 772 Angelina A. Tzacheva and Zbigniew W. Ras Research and Prediction on Nonlinear Network Flow of Mobile Short Message Based on Neural Network 777 Nianhong Wan, Jiyi Wang, and Xuerong Wang Pattern Matching with Flexible Wildcards and Recurring Characters 782 Haiping Wang, Fei Xie, Xuegang Hu, Peipei Li, and Xindong Wu Supplier Selection Based on Rough Sets and Analytic Hierarchy Process 787 Lei Wang, Jun Ye, and Tianrui Li The Covering Upper Approximation by Subcovering 791 Shiping Wang, William Zhu, and Peiyong Zhu Stochastic Synchronization of Non-identical Genetic Networks with Time Delay 794 Zhengxia Wang and Guodong Liu An Extensible Workflow Modeling Model Based on Ontology 798 Zhenwu Wang Interval Type-2 Fuzzy PI Controllers: Why They are More Robust 802 Dongrui Wu and Woei Wan Tan Improved K-Modes Clustering Method Based on Chi-square Statistics 808 Runxiu Wu Decision Rule Acquisition Algorithm Based on Association-Characteristic Information Granular Computing 812 JianFeng Xu, Lan Liu, GuangZuo Zheng, and Yao Zhang Constructing a Fast Algorithm for Multi-label Classification with Support Vector Data Description 817 Jianhua Xu Knowledge Operations in Neighborhood System 822 Xibei Yang and Tsau Young Lin An Evaluation Method Based on Combinatorial Judgement Matrix 826 Jun Ye and Lei Wang Generating Algorithm of Approximate Decision Rules and its Applications 830 Wang Yun and Wu-Zhi Qiang Parameter Selection of Support Vector Regression Based on Particle Swarm Optimization 834 Hu Zhang, Min Wang, and Xin-han Huang T-type Pseudo-BCI Algebras and T-type Pseudo-BCI Filters 839 Xiaohong Zhang, Yinfeng Lu, and Xiaoyan Mao A Vehicle License Plate Recognition Method Based on Neural Network 845 Xing-Wang Zhang, Xian-gui Liu, and Jia Zhao Author Index 849 
xiii 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





