 547 Discovering Vital Patterns From UST Students Data by Applying Data Mining Techniques  Asma A. Al-shargabi Computer science department Faculty of science Engineering ,UST Sanaêa, Yemen somyust@yahoo.cn Ali N.  Nusari Faculty of Engineering Sanaêa University Sanaêa, Yemen anosary@yemen.net.ye   Abstract This paper presents an applied study in data mining and knowledge discovery. It aims at discovering patterns within historical students' academic and financial data at UST University of Science and Technology\ from the year 1993 to 2005 in order to contribute improving academic performance at UST. Results show that these rules concentrate on three main issues, students' academic achievements \(successes and failures\students' drop out, and students' financial behavior Clustering \(by K-means algorithm\, association rules \(by Apriori algorithm\d decision trees by \(J48 and Id3 algorithms\echniques have been used to build the data model Results have been discussed and analyzed comprehensively and then well evaluated by experts in terms of some criteria such as validity, reality, utility, and originality. In addition practical evaluation using SQL queries have been applied to test the accuracy of produced model \(rules   Keywords- Data Mining \(DM\e Discovery Decision Trees, Clustering, Association rules I  I NTRODUCTION  Currently, Data mining becomes a hot research field which attracts a significant concern. It converts raw data into knowledge that has a meaning for the real world by mapping low-level data into other forms that might be compact, more abstract or more useful Many successful data mining applications appear and have been deployed in operational use on large-scale real world problems in science and business. Data mining techniques are using today to increase revenues and to reduce costs. Innovative organizations worldwide are already using data mining to locate and appeal to higher-value customers, to reconfigure their product offerings to increase sales, and to minimize losses due to error or fraud. It is applied in astronomy, finance, fraud detection manufacturing, telecommunications and Internet agents [1 On the other hand, higher educational institutions face big challenges in predicting paths of students and alumni Institutions would like to know, for example, which students will enroll in particular course programs, which students will need assistance in order to graduate, and are some students more likely to transfer than others. Higher educational institutions can use classification, for example, for a comprehensive analysis of student characteristics, or use estimation to predict the likelihood of a variety of outcomes such as drop out, retention, and course success and other academic quality measures in genera  To benefit those advantages mentioned earlier about data mining in higher education, this paper will conduct an analyzed case study on UST students data based on data mining techniques. It aims at uncover hidden patterns within data which are modeling students behavior corresponding of academic achievement, demographic students data and financial students behavior This paper presents a basic know ledge about data mining and its techniques and also about relevant needs in higher education. It shows literatures and related work relevant to the paper topic. Then, it illustrates our scheme in applying data mining techniques upon the data and also provides a concise description of the target data. Finally, findings are objectively evaluated by UST administration according to some criteria II  D ATA M INING P URPOSES AND T ECHNIQUES  Data mining provides many techniques and computational tools that assist in extracting useful information \(knowledge\rom huge databases At abstract level, data mining is used for two general purposes, they are description and prediction. Under these two abstract purposes, different detailed purposes can be addressed. They can be concluded into six comprehensive tasks: classification, estimati on, prediction, affinity grouping clustering, and description. For these purposes many variations of techniques and algorithms can be used. For example, decision trees \(Id3, J48, C4.5, CART and CHAID algorithms\ and memory-based reasoning are techniques well-suited for classification, Neural networks are wellsuited for estimation, and Apriori algorithm and its extensions is the most common algorithm for association rule Authors have concluded some criteria mentioned in different literatures which can aids when making trade-off such as implementation complexity, model type purpose this means that the target model is predictive or descriptive preprocessing effort \(this means all techniques used for data cleaning, transformations an d outliers an alysis\ postprocessing effort \(because of results of different algorithms are differing in term of simplicity and clarity, they vary in post processing effort needed to make results\, processing time \(time needed for processing or for training according to Volumn 2  978-1-4244-5586-7/10/$26.00      2010 IEEE C 


 548 some algorithms\generalization degree \(how extent we can generalize the produced model\, decision making support scalability \(how extent it can deal with large scale data\and finally, common used or not which reflect simplicity of understanding the technique III   H IGHER E DUCATION S YSTEMS AND DM Quality in higher education has been placed front on the contemporary agenda in higher education. There are some quality characteristics and measures in higher educational systems that facilitate evaluating the quality of the system In order to evaluate different aspects of the higher educational system, different quality models use different indicators. For example, in systematic approach these indicators can be categorized into three groups: educational system input, process and output. Input indicators of educational system are organized as human resource financial resources, and systematic resources. In respect to higher educational systems process a series of process indicators can be addressed. These are educating methods researching methods, teachi ng methods, studying opportunities, qualitative and quantitative educational improvements. The most important output indicators are alumni and graduates. Some of these measures and characteristics can be used in evaluating the implemented data mining system in a higher educational system Nowadays, higher education encounters many challenges which prevent them to achieve their quality objectives. Some of these problems come from knowledge gap in higher educational processes. Knowledge gap is the lack of enough and deep knowledge at educational processes such as evaluation, planning, registration, counselling and marketing Data mining technology can help bridging knowledge gap in higher educational systems. The hidden patterns that are discovered by data mining techniques from educational data can improve decision making processes in higher educational systems 5 IV  R ELATED W ORK  Scientific literatures related to data mining in higher education include number of studies based on different data dimensions and different purposes. Ref. [5 shows suc h  studies which based on students' evaluations using decision tree algorithms, quantitative methodologies adopted to mine data from Learning Management Systems \(LMS\. Ref. [6  has conducted an applied study about monitoring and evaluation of students' academic achievements using data mining techniques. It has developed a methodology by the derivation of performance prediction indicators to deploy a simple student performance assessment and monitoring system within a teaching an d learning environment In attempting to find an association between students academic achievements and continuing their postgraduate studies, ref has i m pl e m e n t e d  J48 a l g o r i t h m  usi n g an analysis tool applied on data collected from surveys of different specialization students of the researcher faculty Main purpose of this study was to predict students who tend to continue their education with postgraduate studies through decision trees. From other side, distance on-line learning with its inherent high technical educational infrastructure and huge number of students represent a potential opportunity of research by studying quality level of web-based learning systems through analysing students' behaviour on these systems applying text and web mining techniques. Ref an are exa m p l es of suc h r esear ch es Generally, we can observe that many of earlier studies tend to focus on analyzing students' evaluations and achievements with less attention to students' demographic data and other educational elements, especially different education processes. Furthermore, they have obviously a lack of clear mapping of the significant results into educational procedures or actionable guidelines for relevant educational institutions to involve these findings within the strategic plans of such institutions. This lack may be result because of that the researchers are always technical specialist rather than educators. What we have conducted in this research is involving students' demographic data within study to investigate if there are correlations between such data and students' achievements. In addition, to realize the results of this research on UST quality plans, we evolve professional educators, some stakeholders and top managers of UST in the evaluation phase of the produced model V  UST  D ATA A NALYSIS S CHEME  In this section, we describe our scheme followed when we have applied different data mining techniques on UST data.  Then, we illustrate the nature of data in terms of its sources, volume and different subject dimensions Our scheme uses both directed and undirected knowledge discovery. The process followed in this paper covers the following stages   Building a reliable data mart \(a subset of UST data warehouse which must contain all dimensions of student data\. This stage passes through two main phases: databases integration and data preprocessing In the first phase, concerned databases are integrated from different applications into one and huge database. As a result of this phase, many integration errors are produced. These errors are processed in the second phase by applying preprocessing operations upon the data   In stage 2, obtaining homogenous groups of data applying clustering technique is achieved. These homogeneous groups present a good description of data and simplify next stages   Third stage concerns determining the relations and patterns of variables by applying association rules algorithms in terms of produced groups at last stage   In stage 4, we will apply decision trees algorithms to get a Knowledge representation from selected groups of data in driven with obtained association rules. The output of this stage is decision rules   In stage 5, results are discussed and evaluated in terms of some criteria such as validity, potential utility, simplicity and originality Volumn 2 


 549 As mentioned earlier, data used in this model is UST students' academic and financial data. It contains students achievements through different academic semesters and contains them financial transactions as well. One of the most important reasons for choosing this data was the huge volume. Because of that some faculties have changed its names and also some academic programs done after 2005 we find us have constrained to use the data produced before 2005 to maintain the validity of produced patterns. So, we have selected the database of UST that contains records from the academic year 1993 to 2005.For lucky, it also still huge it contains about 14,106 students who have 334,211 academic transactions and 55,302 financial transactions VI   A PPLYING D ATA M INING T ECHNIQUES  This section explains the different stages of implementation. It contains data preprocessing stage and different stages of applying the proposed techniques. For achieving data preprocessing, different Ms-Access queries were applied. In order to apply proposed data mining techniques, WEKA environment has been used. This product has been chosen according to some criteria such as supporting different platforms including various algorithms and wide data input/output options First of all, a reliable data mart has been created. For this end, different operations were applied on the original databases. These operations were database integration missing values filtering, erroneous values processing variables adaptation and variables decoding. The operations consumed about 80% of the overall time Many transformation operations have been applied over different values either to be more appropriate for coming later processing or to be suitable for some data mining techniques used. From an initial population of 334,211 records, a final population of 330,524 records was obtained As mentioned in the previous section, the first technique was applied is clustering. Clustering data was applied using different algorithms in WEKA environment. In order to obtain a global optimal solution, Iterative implementations of k-means algorithm have been applied with different initial random values. As shown in Tabel I The instances are grouped into 7 clusters. Clusters \(2, 3, 5, and 6\ show that grouping students in these clusters tend to have a very poor score \(fail\. The larger clusters 0 and 3 also indicate poor academic achievement \(pass and fail TABLE I  A TTRIBUTES OF D IFFERENT C LUSTERS  Attribute  Cluster Faculty Status Accumulate d Score Payment Behavior  0 Science Engineering graduate pass pay 1 The National College Dropped out pass pay 2 Science Engineering Dropped out fail donêt pay 3 Medical Sciences regular fail pay 4 Arts remain pass pay 5 Arts regular fail pay 6 Administrative Sciences regular fail pay  In addition, cluster 2 shows that students in this group tend to have a negative behavior toward fees payment. They also then dropped out from the university Generally, produced model \(clusters\hows that in consideration of issues relevant to academic field, three regions can lay out data: student drop out, student academic achievements, and fees payme nt. Thus, next models have selected homogenous grouped according these three attributes, especially with decision rules After applying clustering technique in which relation between variables is going to be clear, association rules with guiding lines from clustering will produce clear relations and patterns. Association rules technique was applied with WEKA as well. Association rules were produced using Apriori algorithm.. Seventy two rules have been produced in this stage. According to three issues discussed in clustering these results can be concluded as follows: One rule with confidence 0.8 clearly shows that dropped out students were failed regardless faculty or department. Another rule with confidence 0.68 shows that the most students' failures occur at earlier levels, specifically at level 2. Students have a poor score at high school; have a poor score in academic accumulative average as shown in a rule with confidence 0.55. Students that have good scores at high school; will graduate as shown in a rule with confidence 0.7 and in other rule with confidence 0.69. Students who pay late or donêt pay, usually dropout as appear in a rule with confidence 0.61 Three important rules were produced clearly address a remarkable new issue: most regular students donêt have a good score in academic accumulative average especially at Administrative faculty, and Faculty of Science Engineering After that, decision rules have been obtained with the assistance of results produced in the last two stages. Three classifier attributes \(decision attributes\ have been selected to apply the technique of decision trees. Classifier attributes were student status, academic accumulated average, and payment status. Id3 and J48 algorithms were used. By tracing produced trees, we can see that many produced patterns in the last stages were confirmed as decisions. Four important decision trees produced seven clear decision rules about students' success and failures, student drop out, and fees payment behavior. Produced model is as follows If student_status=Regular    then academic_accumelated_average = fail     \(62 If student_status= Dropped-out then academic_accumelated_average = fial     \(66.6 If student_status= Dropped-out and    student_level= 1 or  2  or  3 then academic_accumelated_average= fail  \(60 If student_level=1 and academic_accumelated_average=fail   then student_status Dropped-out    \(90 If student_level=2   and academic_accumelated_average=fail    then student_status Dropped-out \(60 Volumn 2 


 550 If student_status =DROP OUT then payment_behaviour donêtpayer \(87.5 If   student_level= 2 or and   high_school_score=pass or accepted   then student_status = Dropped-out \(57 We can see that patterns produced by association rules are confirmed here: poor scores in high school affect students' performance in faculty \(rule 7 students have a poor score in accumulated average. Most drop out occurs at earlier levels \(rules 3, 7, 4, 5\dent's failures lead to drop out. Students that are dropped out usually pay fees late or donêt pay \(rule 6\. In addition, many produced decision rules confirmed that there are a relationship between students drop out and poor scores in some courses. In general: Most of these courses were at the earlier years \(1 or 2\st of these courses have a complex nature VII   D ISCUSSION AND E VALUATION  Results have been evaluated by the university academic administration experts and decision makers in consideration of some criteria \(validity, reality, utility and originality\on a scale from 1 to 10. These criteria were carefully selected to evaluate the produced model keeping in mind criteria that evaluate the models of decision trees in general. Results have a general score of \(8.4\e best evaluated characteristic was the utility with score of \(9.5\ followed by validity \(8.7 and reality \(8.5\ally originality \(7 Keeping in mind all produc ed results, some of these results were questionable. The common level of achievement for regular students which were poor addresses many inquiries. As shown in Fig. 1, the distribution of the academic achievements is so far about the normal distribution in which grade fail represent the most percentage as produced in the model. This result can be justified by various reasons which can be studied by decisions makers at UST. As shown, the most failures are at the early levels, and these failures affect student dropping out, these poor scores may appear due to poor scores at high school, or maybe students donêt know the nature of different department adequately before starting study, so students may surprise with the nature of the department and so, they drop out. Also some students may have a high ambition not compatible with cognitive abilities of themselves. These types of students may face many disappointments which can be avoid with academic guidance  Figure 1  Distribution of student's academic achievements Also correct admission policy can help or even adding a primary semester/year to prepare students. Finally, changing positions of some complex courses to upper levels within programs specifications may help reducing the ratio of students' drop out Furthermore, produced model shows that dropped out students have a negative behavior regarding to fees payment Negative feelings which are a result of failures may make students feel not settled and so, they donêt easily pay fees VIII    R ECOMMENDED A CTION S TRATEGIES  Finally, results can be mapped into some action strategies   Developing an academic guidance program could present a vital service for new students. It could help them determining their abilities and attitudes that will help in choosing the appropriate specialization Also, this program can present consulting services about study strategies and skills, administrative procedure, psycho-social support for students to support their academic performance   Objective admission policy should be designed in each specialization independently in terms of the nature and academic standards   Academic programs specification especially courses flowcharts and paths should be carefully reviewed so that each course should be in the appropriate position with its appropriate prerequisites so students can move toward upper level smoothly   Some academic programs may in need to a primary semester or even a year to prepare students to study specialization courses later   Some courses which have a complex scientific nature which were included in patterns related with failures and dropout may be in need to develop the teaching and learning strategies and methods. It could be taught using tutorials labs to make it easier for students especially if these courses are at earlier levels   Supporting students to enhance their academic achievements leads to improvement of fees payment This crucial pattern can be considered as a strategic policy in UST focusing in supporting students especially at earlier levels   Students' achievements evaluations methods of different academic programs should be carefully reviewed and should be strongly involved in academic annual evaluation of university which is responsibility of quality assurance and development department   Building a reliable incremental data warehouse involves all branches with different subjects dimensions will help decision makers in UST to improve academic performance IX   C ONCLUSION  Keeping in mind the aim of this research, the proposed solution has achieved a good result. Findings were well evaluated in context of some criteria such as validity and reality by the decision makers at UST. Quality assurance departments in higher education institutions could get a Volumn 2 


 551 useful knowledge about the quality level of the different elements in education systems using such techniques Discovered patterns could be reformulated into academic strategies about many academic issues as admission policy students' services, and teachin g methods. As farther work these findings can be improved with expanding dimensions and volume of data such as attendance, studentsê transfer data, residence data, staff data and other branches data  REFERENCES 1  Two Crows Corporation, çIntroduction to Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Scientific Report, 1999 2  Jing Luan, çData Mining Applications in Higher Educationé, 2004 3  P.Ramasubramanian et all, çMining Analysis of SIS database using Rough Set Theoryç, IEEE, International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Multimedia Applications, 2007 4  Naeimeh Delavaril et all , çA New Model for Using Data Mining Technology in Higher Educational Systemsç, IEEE  ,2004 5  Vasile Paul Bre_felean, çAnalysis and Predictions on Students Behavior Using Decision Trees in Weka Environmentç, Proceedings of the ITI 2007 29th Int. Conf. on Information Technology Interfaces June 25-28, 2007 6  Emmanuel N. Ogor, ç Student Academic Performance Monitoring and Evaluation Using Data Mining Techniquesç, Fourth Congress of Electronics, Robotics and Auto motive Mechanics, IEEE, 2007 7  Irene Kuan Lau and Joseph Fong Investigation on the Effectiveness on Web-Based Learning Using Data Mining Approachç, Proceedings of the 14th International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications, IEEE, 2003 8  Juan Jos¥e Garc¥a Adeva et all, çApplying Plagiarism Detection to Engineering Education ç, IEEE, 2006 Volumn 2 


The competences at the bottom of the list indicate the smallest gap between importance and level of development indicating that their development is closely matched to need Interestingly all gaps are positive indicating rated importance is higher than level of development \(on the same rating scale\ in all cases There is some variation in the ranking of the ègapê across Europe. For example, in Bulgaria the top 5 ranked gaps are  1  Planning and time management 2  Ability to work in an interdisciplinary team 3  Knowledge of a second language 4  Initiative and entrepreneurial spirit 5  Oral and written communications in your native language  For French academics Capacity for generating new ideas creativity\ is top with çKnowledge of a second language second. Irish academics rank çCapacity to adapt to new situationsé top  C  The employer view of generic competences The 112 completed questionnaires returned by employers show a slightly different view to students and academics.  In the top 5 ranking of importance of the generic competences are Problem Solvingé, çTeam workingé and çCapacity for applying knowledge in practiceé in common with students and academics but also çConcern for qualityé and çCapacity to learné.  Both understandable from an industrial perspective Employers, like students rated çElementary computing skillsé first in terms of level of development followed by Capacity to learné, an encouraging result for HEIs.  çOral and written communications in your native languageé came third followed by çWill to succeedé and çBasic general technical knowledge of the profession of your work ar eaé.  Surprisingly Planning and time managementé can in the bottom 5 Ö this should be a concern for HEIs as most of us expect good demonstration of this competence in examination preparation individual and group projects and general assignment work Table 6 shows the employers rating of the ègapê in the generic competences Top of the list overall is çConcern for qualityé. This is dominated by a clear difference at the Masters level. At the Bachelor level the greatest gap is in çTeamworkingé. çPlanning and time managementé is second overall, again principally because of the Master level res ponses, it is ranked 6 th for Bachelor students. It is clear from the top few in the list where employers feel the academic programmes their graduate recruits have taken are falling short of their çneedé in the generic competences  TABLE VI  A LL EMPLOYER RATING OF THE  GAP  IN THE GENERIC COMPETENCES  Rank Generic competence Mean 1 Concern for quality 0.79 2 Planning and time management 0.75 3 Capacity for applying knowledge in practice 0.74 4 Problem solving 0.72 5 Team working 0.72   28 Research skills 0.33 29 Grounding in basic knowledge of the profession of your area 0.26 30 Appreciation of diversity and multiculturality 0.26 31 Understanding of cultures and customs of other countries 0.14 32 Elementary computing sk ills 0.09  Encouragingly at the bottom of the list there appears to be no issue with Elementary computing skills alt hough the academics who feel that this is not a core com ponent of their degree programme will gain little comfort from this outcome The other competences at the bottom of the Table 6 are generic competences employers feel are being developed in line with their rating of its importance There is variation in the way employers in different countries rate the gap between importance and level of development of the generic competences. The top ranked gap is   Bulgaria: çCapacity for applying knowledge in practiceé, çDecision makingé, çLeadershipé \(equal top   France: çCapacity to adapt to new situations Teamworkingé \(equal top   Germany: çPlanning and time management   Ireland: çTeamworking   Poland: çPlanning and time management   Slovak Republic: çAbility to work aut onomously IV  HOW THE GENERIC COMPETENCES GROUP  Factorial analysis was used to ègroupê the generic competences.  Across all the responses the 32 generic competences factored into 5 groups 1   Internationalisation Understanding of cultures and customs of other countries.é çAppreciation of ethical issues.é çAppreciation of diversity and multiculturality International relations and collaborationsé, çAbility to work in an international context 2   Entrepreneurship Patents and IPRé, çCreativity Initiative and entrepreneurial spirit 3   Professional skills Grounding in basic knowledge of the professioné, çBasic general technical knowledge 72 


Capacity for analysis and synthesisé, çResearch skills Capacity to learn 4   Interpersonal skills Leadershipé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çAbility to communicate with non-expertsé, çOral and written communications in native languageé, çCritical and self-critical capabilityé, çTeamworking 5   Personal skills Ability to work autonomously Problem solvingé, çCapacity to adapt to new situations Knowledge of a second languageé, çConcern for qualityé, çWill to succeedé, çElementary computing skillsé, çCapacity for applying knowledge in practice Decision makingé, çProject design and management Information management skills Table 7 shows the mean importance of each gr oup of competences by stakeholder group for the First Cycle Degree respondents. For the employers the personal skills are the most importance group followed by professional skills and interpersonal skills. The table confirms that employers rank internationalisation and entrepreneurship lowest. Academics agree with the order of the competence groups but rate all of them more strongly important than employers. Students also rank the competence groups in the same order but rate internationalisation slightly higher than employers and entrepreneurship very slightly lower Analysis of the level of development of the competenceas shows that there is good agreement that Professional skills are the best developed of the skill groups followed by Personal skills and Interpersonal skills. As with importance the Entrepreneurship and Internationalisation skill groups are developed the least. There is clearly a difference between the rated importance and level of development of these groups in that the Personal skills group is rated most important but the Professional skills group is developed the most. Other than that the general structure of the supply demand balance of the generic competences is quite well aligned V  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  The objective of this study was to apply the Tuning Methodology to the EIE discipline set to test the alignment between the views of the importance and level of development of sets of competences between students, academics and employers. The results of this study show that the Tuning Methodology is a useful tool for assessing alignment in these subjects  TABLE VII  MEAN IMPORTANCE OF EACH GROUP BY STAKEHOLDER  Competence Group Academic Employer Student Internationalization 2.86 2.63 2.79 Entrepreneurship 3.07 3.05 3.02 Interpersonal skills 3.23 3.09 3.06 Professional skills 3.36 3.29 3.13 Personal skills 3.44 3.30 3.29  In total 3,275 questionnaires have been collected from the stakeholder groups from a range of European countries. The number of responses from each c ountry is variable and a full by country analysis is not possible with the responses currently available, that said a range of analyses have been carried out Tests of the homogeneity of the responses across all countries show that there are country differences in some analyses and some of these are explored, others merit further investigation. Many of the analyses presented in this paper are aggregated results and therefore potentially suffer clustering problems. This too is a topic of further investigation The following is a summary of the key conclusions drawn from the analyses presented Consistent top of importance of the generic competences for all stakeholders is çProblem solvingé. Second in the ranking for students is çElementary computing skillsé. Comparatively students under rate the importance of this skill, perhaps it is taken for granted in students than in academics and employers The results show employers value it more than students and this message could be communicated to students A number of gaps exist between the importance and level of development between the stakeholders. The largest gap is Knowledge of a second languageé and the evidence from the languages section suggests this view is strongly aimed at English The generic competences group into 5 sets with çPersonal skillsé rated consistently as the most important set. This is followed, in descending order of importance, by çProfessional skillsé, çInterpersonal skillsé, çInternationalisationé and Entrepreneurshipé. The smallest mean çInternationalisation is just over midway between çweaké and çconsiderableé. Given the European Unionês desire to see greater student and employee mobility across Europe, it is clear there is scope for scope for improvement in the value placed in this skill set by curriculum designers Curriculum designers and academics can take comfort in the finding that çProfessional skillsé are the best developed of the skill gr oups followed by çPersonal sk illsé and Interpersonal skillsé. This not only aligns with the views of employers but aligns with anecdotal evidence on the real purpose of EIE education programmes. That said there is a trend in a number of countries across Europe away from large firm employment towards a Small to Medium Sized Enterprise culture. Curriculum designers may wish to reflect on the fact that entrepreneurial skills are very low in the list and perhaps merit more attention and emphasis in the curricula In general the different stakeholders rate the importance and level of development on average differently. This difference has been taken into account in the conclusions drawn. The general unevenness in ranking reflects different perspectives and is, in itself not considered a major issue, of concern are the relative positions of competences and the relative gaps. In general and even allowing for this employers and academics tend to rate competences higher in importance than students and graduates a number of specific instances of differences are drawn out in section 8 73 


After the text edit has been completed, the paper is ready for the template. Duplicate the template file by using the Save As command, and use the naming convention prescribed by your conference for the name of your paper. In this newly created file, highlight all of the contents and import your prepared text file. You are now ready to style your paper; use the scroll down window on the left of the MS Word Formatting toolbar A CKNOWLEDGMENT  The authors acknowledge the funding provided by the European Union for this project and to the members of the project team for help in collecting questionnaires R EFERENCES   1  European Association for Education in Electrical and Information Enginering http://www.eaeeie.org  2  EIE-Surveyor project http://www.eie-surveyor.org  3  Tuning Report http://tuning.unideusto.org/tuningeu/index.php?option=content&task=vi ew&id=172&Itemid=205  4  Overview of the Bologna Process Ö Implementation in Europe in Electrical and Informaiton Engineetringé, ISBN 2-9516740-3-1, pp 542  74 


              


   


                        





