Diseases Association Discovery Based on XML EMR Xu Yabin Institute of Computer Beijing Information Science and Technology University Beijing, China xyb@bistu.edu.cn 0003\000H\000Q\000J\000\003\000+\000R\000Q\000J\000\\\000X Computer Department College of Tangshan Tangshan, China Penghongyu2007@yahoo.cn Abstract First, the meaning of data mining from EMR with a view to discover valuable knowledge, as well as current problems is introduced. Then, several po ssible storage methods for EMR are deeply analyzed and studied. On this basis, the solution of storage XML EMR with DB2/9.5 hybrid database is presented The XQ-Apriori algorithm based on classic Apriori algorithm and XML query language XQuery, as well as an application case for association rules mining directly from XML EMR and other kinds of XML documents is introduced in detail. It is proved the association between diseases can be discovered in effect by using this algorithm. Finally, the application circs and the application scope of the algorithm are summarized and illuminated 002 and further developed research work by author are recommended KeywordsXML; EMR; Disease Association Discovery XQuery; Data Mining I I NTRODUCTION Electronic Medical Record \(EMR\medical work records of which medical institutions used to clinical treatment and guided intervention for outpatient or inpatient \(or health care objects\mplete and detailed clinical information of which individual residents produced and recorded during the previous treatments 1  At present, the hospital medical records are written by artificial way in general. A lot of time of doctors has been spent on writing them. And a lot of space has been taken up to conserve them. Inquiry and reading are difficult, and the utilization rate is very low. Th e long-term conservation value of medical records is affected to a certain extent With the push of the informatization process, using computers to store and manage medical records and building EMR will effectively solve this problem. EMR can also be transmitted through the networ k to better support the longdistance consultations, to meet the need of information exchange and sharing between medical and health agencies. A large number of valuable diag nostic and treatment data existed in medical records, can not only be used for medical analysis and statistics, but also be used to discover many diseases associations, development and changes orderliness of diseases unprecedented diseases classification, as well as the relationship between diagnosis treatment methods and effectiveness. It will strongly support medical research by discovering these deep-seated relationships We can see from the contents of EMR as described earlier that there are a lot of words, images and other unstructured data in EMR, and showed a typical tree structure, so there is a certain degree of difficulty using traditional relational database to describe and store. However, through analysis and research we found that XML is very su itable to describe EMR, and XML database can be used to store EMR. Moreover International Medical Standards Organization HL7 has also released clinical document standard \(HL7 CDA standard based on XML for the purpose of information exchange. At present, the United States, Germany and some other developed countries have even established a national or regional EMR exchange platform, Chinese Ministry of Health also published EMR basic structure and data st andards \(draft August 002 2009. The purpose is to regu late the development of EMR system in medical institutions and lay the foundation for the construction of regional EMR exchange platform Thus  the research is not only extremely meaningful to carry out data mining so as to discover valu able knowledge from EMR with XML documents forms, but also a realistic basis II T HE S TORAGE OF XML EMR XML has characteristics of self-description, flexible format and strong expansibility. So, it has become the most appropriate description manner of EMR information. We can build EMR tree through mapping medical records information to different nodes of XML tree With constant data input, EMR tree will gradually grow up. As the data content and format of XML is separate, once the format or structure of EMR is changed, we can only adjust XML schema to adapt changing medical records Currently, XML documents can use four ways of file system, relational database, ob ject-oriented database and XML  000\003\000\003\000\003 1\m take each XML document as a file, before accessing each XML document, we must carry through syntax parsing, so query and modify is difficult, and the scope of use is very limited 2\Using a relational database for XML data access and operation, this is the commonly used method, now. However changing the semi-structured data into structured data, there are following problems 1\does not support data types, data types are represented by hidden text. The relational data possess rich data types, so we need change text-type data to other types data, date, etc.\mapping procedure, we must judge the texttype first of all, this is very difficult to achieve in this way 2\XML does not require that the tree is balanced, or say does not require that sub-tree contains an equal number of The Scientific Research Fund Project of Beijing Education Commission 000\003 KM200810772007 
2010 Second International Workshop on Education Technology and Computer Science 978-0-7695-3987-4/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE DOI 10.1109/ETCS.2010.501 503 


children. If use a relational table to deal with the data contained in XML documents, it is likely to be sparse, and a lot of spaces do not contain data. There are some difficulties in processing the sparse data, in current kinds of available data mining algorithms 3\data table mappi ng method can only express XML document of simple structure, but not that of database mode structures, such as the l ogical relationship between some tables 4\ay contain a number of components that is difficult to map, such as processing instructions, entity definition and use, property values and the emergence order of same type of elements, the content of CDATA and other coded information, which is easy to resu lt in the loss of information in mapping process 3\he object-oriented database allows XML elements and sub-elements store in clu ster, thus improved the query efficiency of some applications. However, the object-oriented databases are not very mature are lack of corresponding standards, have a narrower scope of application, and have not good effect. Thus, to a certain extent, it affected the application of XML on it 4\ database is designed to support the database system which store and deal w ith semi-structured data. Its internal memory model is cons istent with the inherent hierarchical model of XML documents. When access to XML documents, it need not to be dismantled/recombine, so it is more flexible and efficient. It not only provides traditional database technology such as tr ansaction management, security multi-user access, programming API and query language, etc but also supports the latest standards of W3C about XML technology, such as support for XQuery/XPath, and so on Compared with traditional databases, XML databases have the following characteristics 1\XML database can efficiently access and manage semistructured data, such as web pages. Traditional relational database seems to be powerless to 2 9 XML database can process tag name and path. The traditional database language can only access the value of the data elements 3\XML database can express hierarchical data clearly, and can access it easy 4\ument-oriented XML da tabase is different from traditional data table, its cont ents are order. So, inquiry connection and modification are more complex. In the traditional data table, the order of the items of table is interchangeable XML database can be divided into XML Enable Data Base XEDB\Native XML Database \(NXD\ XEDB based on the traditional database and in creased support to XML, to realize format conversion and transmission between XML data and XEDB. Through appropriate XML API, XML documents can be queried and modified, but can’t be stored in XML format. From the storage size, entire XML document can be taken as a row of RDBMS table. Or, storage a XML document to the appropriate table after parsing. Thus, we can see it is very inconvenient for XML data processing. The typical representatives of such databases are SQL Server/2005 and ORACLE/10 NXD is specifically designed for storing and managing XML documents. It takes XML documents as a database storage unit for operations and management. NXD generally use the hierarchical data storage model, and maintaining the tree structure of XML documents, eliminating the data conversion processing between XML documents and traditional database. Some typical representatives of such databases are commercial Ipedo, X-Hive, Xyleme and Tamino as well as open-source Berkeley DB XML, dbXML, XDB Xindice, and so on. Such kind of databases are generally not mature enough, as it is designed for semi-structured data storage and processing, so its processing efficiency is very low for structured data. As we know that EMR contains both unstructured data and structure d data, therefore, using such kind of databases is still insufficient The DB2/9.5 is a hybrid database which IBM issued, not long ago. It can store and pro cess conveniently and efficiently both unstructured data and the st ructured data. It can directly retrieve and process the node of XML node tree using XQuery XPath and other XML query langua ge, is very suitable for the application of EMR, especially the application of the regional exchange platform  5]. It is easy to im ple m ent the data integration and applica tion integration with hospital information system \(HIS\In view of this, we have chosen and used the DB2 V9.5 One of the most important features of XML document is the separation of content and display output format. EMR document of XML itself does not have the format information It implement display and conversion of the contents which is described in XML through XSL style sheet language  T o  this end, we have defined the template that match with various logic components of XML EMR in XSL documents, as well as the match conversion mode. It can well describe the way of which EMR document of XML convert to any other format of document, such as changing to another logical structure of XML documents, HTML documents, XHTML documents And that a same style sheet can be used for multiple documents with a similar sources tree structure XSL consists of two parts: The first part describes how a XML EMR document converts to available browsing and output formats; the second part defines the format object FO When output, a source tree is constructed first according XML EMR document, and then it is transformed to a result tree which can display according to the given XSL. This process is called tree transformation. Finally, interpreting the results tree according to FO tree, and produce an output 000\003 III D ATA M INING B ASED ON XML EMR Data mining based on XML EMR can use following three methods The first method is to embed some query languages specifically developed for semi-structured data, such as XQuery, XML-QL, XML-GL, etc., into other application programs, so as to mine directly from a specific XML EMR The advantage of this approach is that it may combine the 
504 


XML technology and data mini ng technology closely, and realize easily and conveniently The second method is to map unstructured data in XML EMR to an existing relational model or object model, be structured, allowing us use more mature data mining approach  u t the relationshi p and the meaning between the various parts in XML EMR may be lost in the mapping process The third method is taking XML EMR as a text, thus some traditional text mining technologies can be used to mine. Such as taking document space as the vector space formed by a group of orthogonal term vector by using Vector Space Model VSM\ Through statistics of word frequency, shrinking dimensions and other steps, make the purposes of machine learning and knowledge accessing. However, this method does not take into account that XM L documents still possess some structural features. In addition, large volumes of data and the much more data item may lead to feature vector of document enormous and cause difficulties in mining Through analysis and comparison, we choose the first method As a result of the hybrid datab ase, medical information stored in it is standard XML data. In addition, taking into account the large number of EMR data entry is mainly through the EMR template as assistance which established by schema and used for all sections and every disease. Therefore, the quality of the data source is very good. The corresponding data pre-processing work is relativ ely simple, so it needn’t do further elaboration here Data mining process is the co re of knowledge discovery based on XML EMR. Traditional data mining techniques are mainly for structured data, and can’t deal directly with the semi-structured data in XML EMR. Therefore, if we want to carry out the data mining for XML EMR, we must combine the traditional data mining technology for structured data with the technical specifications about XM L, design a data mining algorithm directly for the XML EMR XQuery is the XML query st andards, provides abundant and powerful query capabilities, by using it we can convert the mining process in traditional association rule mining algorithm for structured data into the mining process for XML documents this approach is simple and quick As the knowledge excavated from the XML EMR database possesses the format of XML document, it can be directly store in a pre-designed table in accordance with the format of the schema defined before. Then, the results are displayed in visual form and in accordance with the specific XSL format, analyzed and evaluated with medical experts 000\003 IV T HE A SSOCIATION R ULE M INING A LGORITHM XQA PRIORI BASED ON XML EMR The Apriori algorithm is the most classical algorithm to mine association rules for structured data. We introduce the XQuery to the Apriori algorithm to improve it and make it applicable to XML database which store EMR. The basic idea of corresponding XQ-Ap riori algorithm is as follows 1\o needs, extract the corresponding node from multiple EMR trees stored in the XML database, generate an XML EMR documents to be excavated 2\sociation rule from XML EMR documents to discover the association between diseases. The mining process based on XQuery from XML documents is as follows  First step, obtain frequent ite m sets from the original XML document Second step, derive association rules from the frequent item sets 3\he mining results \(found knowledge\ are displayed through XSL in accordance with the custom of user, for evaluation and improvement For example: If you want to mine association rule from the diagnose results" in XML EMR, fi rst, it is needed to extract the diagnose results nodes from corresponding EMR tree of each patient, to generate an XML document; then, mine association rules from the XML document, and thus obtain the association between the diseases; Finally, display the mining results as visual form 1. The Frequent Item Set Generating Algorithm 1\mining the minimum support degree $minsup at start, as well as the number of patients $total in XM L EMR document, etc 2\nning the entire XML document through XQuery traversing various nodes in the XML document, reading relevant information from the XML document, generating candidate item set 1 $C, acquiri ng support degree of every candidate item set 1 at the same time 3 more than or equal to the minimum support degree $minsup, and thus obtaining frequent item sets 1 $l 4 information \(for example minsup, $l, etc.\Ap riori algorithm, and then calculating the support degree of item sets by scanning the obtained data 5\itting those item sets that support degree is less than the minimum support degree Repeat 2\ produce other frequent item sets 2. The Association Rules Generating Algorithm The idea of which the XQ-Ap riori algorithm generates association rules is as follows: For each frequent item set X in the frequent item sets document, find other frequent item set Y in the frequent item sets document, Y to be included in X, and the support \(X 001 Y\ust be greater than or equal to the minimum confidence degree. Supposing the minimum support degree is 60%, minimum confidence degree is 70 the algorithm to obtain freque nt item sets from the XML document is as follows let $src:= document\(“/emr.xml let $minsup := 0.6 let $total := count\($src let $C := distinct-values\($src let $l :=\(for $itemset in $C let $items := \(for $item in $src where $itemset = $item return $item let $sup := \(count\($items 
505 


where $sup >= $minsup return <frequent item sets items> {$itemset} </items support degree> {$sup} </support degree frequent item sets let $L := $l return <all frequent item sets > {Apriori\($l, $L,$minsup, $total, $src frequent item sets For ease of illustration, we introduce an EMR document based on XML Diagnosis information of all patients Patient Information ID ="1 Diagnosis information Disease ID ="1">Diabetes</Disease Disease ID ="2">heart infarction</Disease Disease ID ="3">hypertension</Disease Disease ID ="4">cataract</Disease Diagnosis Information Patient Information Patient Information ID ="2 Diagnosis information Disease ID ="1">cataract</Disease Disease ID ="2">heart infarction</Disease Diagnosis Information Patient Information Patient Information ID ="3 Diagnosis information Disease ID ="1">Diabetes</Disease Disease ID ="2">cataract</Disease Disease ID ="3">hypertension</Disease Diagnosis Information Patient Information Diagnosis information of all patients The final obtained association rules document is as follows All association rules Association rule support_degree="0.6" confidence_degree="0.7 Conditions item item>diabetes</item item>cataract</item Condition item Results item item>hypertension</item Results item Association rule Association rule support_degree="0.6" confidence_degree="0.7 Conditions item item>diabetes</item item>hypertension</item Condition item Results item item>cataract</item Results item Association rules Association rule support_degree="0.6" confidence_degree="0.7 Conditions of entry item>cataract</item item>hypertension</item Condition item Results item item>diabetes</item Results item Because the mining results are also of XML documents they don’t contain display forma t of knowledge. So it is needed to display and output the knowledge obtained from data mining in the structure defined by sc hema, in order to obtain visual results V C ONCLUSION The XQ-Apriori algorithm can not only carry out data mining from EMR database based on XML, but also be used in a variety of XML documents. By applying the algorithm to the EMR based on XML, some very valuable associations between diseases have been found, such as diabetes are often associated with coronary atherosclerotic heart disease, cardiovascular disease often accompanied by cardiac autonomic neuropathy there are close relations between gout and liver, kidney, heart etc.. Although these results still ne ed to be confirmed, through analysis of the formation mechanism of the disease and a lot of medical research, it will obviously provide directions for medical research. In addition, as XML has been cross-platform universal document standard based on content in Internet environment, on the one hand, the use of XML documents is more and more, on the other hand, the WEB pages information using XML are more and more, therefore, designing data mining algorithms for XML document is of great practical value The follow-up work has two aspects. The first aspect is to build the semantic network and to further improve and enhance the efficiency of the algorithm and performance; the other aspect is to take extensive cooperation with medical research workers, select typical cases to conduct a joint research, with a view to discover associations between diseases, provide more valuable reference for the field of medical research R EFERENCES  The People's Republic Of China Ministry Of Health, EMR B a sic Structure And Data Standards \(Draft\ov.cn/gzdt/200908/04/content_1383441.htm\(in Chinese 9 2009-8-04  Chen Zheng, Data Mining Rese arch Based On XML Dat a base Huazhong University of Science and Technology Master's degree thesis Computer Application Technology Specialty\(in Chinese  XU Yabin, Cai Xiufen, EMR Inform ation Exchange Architecture And Security Mechanisms Based On HL7 CDA, Journal Of Liaoning Technical University\(Natural Science Edition, in Chinese 2008,27\(2\:245-247  Chen Jian, XU Yabin, Design And Realization Of Electronic Pati ent  Record Based On XML, Beijing Information Technology University Natural Science Edition, in 3\8-71  Xu Yabin 9 Chen Jian 9 Peng Hongyu 9 Research of Electronic Patient Record Based on XML 9 ICMeCG2009,219-222  Ding Feng, SHEN Junyi, ZHAO Tia nha i, Research and Im ple m entation  of Mapping Relational Database to Extensible Markup Language Document, Journal of Xi'an Jiaotong University\(in Chinese 9 36 9 10 9Õ9 1066~1069  J W  W W a n and G Dobbie, Extracting association rules fro m  XM L documents using XQuery ACM. NY, 2003 Association rules All association rules 
506 


Try to derive association rules containing the itemsets that use-specified in 1 L as follow The confidence of 1 1 BE  000  is  1  1   1 1  1 1,3,5 60  1,3,5,9,10 card B E conf B E card B TT T minconf TT T T T   000    000\037  Analogously, the confidence of 2 1 BE  000  is also 60 minconf  So, both of the rules can’t be add into rule sets RL Generate frequent 3- elementary sets contain B and E to form 3 L by performing intersection operation between elementary sets in 2 L and 1 L  For example  1 1  3  1 3 BE C BC 010    010  010 000\037   E  can be put into 3 C as the support of which is  1,3,5 3 TT T minsup TDB   The result is  3  1 3 1   2 1 L BC EB DE  010=\010 010=\010      Try to derive association rules containing the itemsets that use-specified in 3 L as follow 13 1 BC E 010  000  the confidence is 75 minconf  21 1 BD E 010  000  the confidence is75 minconf  Then, add these two rules into RL and delete 1 3 1  BC E 010  010  2 1 1 BDE 010 010  from 3 L   Now 3 L become empty, so output the rules in RL end TABLE II  A N E XAMPLE  TID A  B  C  D  E  T1 0 1 3 1 1 T2 0 2 0 1 1 T3 0 1 3 0 1 T4 1 2 3 1 1 T5 2 1 3 2 1 T6 1 2 1 1 1 T7 1 2 3 2 0 T8 0 2 0 1 0 T9 1 1 1 1 0 T10 2 1 3 1 0 VI  C ONCLUSIONS  In this paper, on the basis of the literature research, we introduce a data mining language. From the data mining language, users can specify the interested items or the sequences, and the minimum support and the minimum confidence threshold to discover interesting multidimensional association rules. And then according to Rough set theory, we transform multi-dimensional association rules to elementary sets description, antecedents corresponding with feature classes, consequent corresponding with concept in RS, and then propose the efficient data mining algorithm MIMAR-RS to process the user requirements, combined with the idea of generating frequent itemsets dynamically thus reducing the search space to produce frequent itemsets reducing the time complexity. Furthermore, it can avoid redundant rules R EFERENCES  1  Wu shen, Gao xue-dong, M.Bastien Data warehouse and data mining Metallurgical Industry Press, Beijing, 2003 2  Agrawal R, Imielinski T, and Swami A Mining Associations Between Sets of Items in Massive Databases In: Proc. of the 1993 3  Agrawal R,Srikant R. Fast Algorithms for Mining Association rules In: Proc. VLDB’94, Santiago, Chile, 1994, pp. 487~499 4  Savasere A., Omieciniski., Navathe S. An efficient algorithm for mining association rules in large database. In: Proc. VLDB’95 Zurich,1995, pp.432~443 5  Han, J, Pei, J. Mining frequent patterns by pattern-growth Methodology and implications. In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining 2000, pp.30–36 6  Pei, J, Han, J. Can we push more constraints into frequent pattern mining? In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining. 2000, pp.350–354 7  Meo, R., Psaila, G., & Ceri, S. A new SQL-like operator for mining association rules. In Proceedings of international conference on very large data base. 1996, pp.122–133 8  Yen, S.J.Chen, A.L.P. An efficient data mining technique for discovering interesting association rules. In Proceedings of international conference on database and expert systems applications DEXA\ 1997, pp. 664–669 9  Huang Yong, Liu Feng. A New Algorithm for Data mining of Multidimensinal Association Rules in Relational Database. Computer Applications and Software, 2008,24\(10\ , pp.60-61,83   Zhu Ming. Data Mining.Hefei:University of science and technology of China Press. 2002   Hettich, S. and Bay, S. D. \(1999\. The UCI KDD Archive http://kdd.ics.uci.e  I r vi n e  CA: Un i v ers i t y of C a li forn ia  Department of Information and Computer Science,1999   Zhang Wenxiu etc.Rough Set Theory and Method.Beijing:science press.2001   Lv Yue-Jin, LiuNan-Xing, Chen Lei. Rough Set Attribute Reduction Algorithm Based on PGA. Computer Science, 2008,35\(03\, pp.219221   Li Jin-hai, Lv Yue-jin. Relation matrix-based algorithm for reduction of attribute in information systems. Computer Engineering and Applications, 44\(09\ , pp.147-149,189   Chen Xin-ying, Li Xiong-fei. Parallel algorithm of attribute reduction in rough set. Journal of Computer Applications, 2007,27\(08 pp.1964-1966   Wang Jia-wei, Huang Da-rong2, Lei Ming. Optimal control of traffic flow based on rough theory and fractal theory. 2008,28\(05\, pp.12001203  
38 
38 


  Fig 4-1. Casual adjustment using Apriori algorithm  Fig 4-2. Casual adjustme nt using interested fuzzy calendar casual associated rule  Reference 1 Wan-Jui Lee. Discovery of fuzzy temporal and periodic association rules. National Sun Yat-Sen University Department of Electrical Engineering. 2008 2 Guo Hongwei, Gao Xuedong, Chen Lingkun, Yang Tianjun. Application of multidimensional time series fuzzy association rules for hot metal temperature forecasting in a blast furnace. Journal of University of Science and Technology Beijing, pages 553~557, 2008 3 Pan Yan, Ma Hui. Discovery of fuzzy temporal association rules within valid time intervals. Journal of The Graduates Sun Yat-Sen University\(Natural Sciences 001 Medicine\, pages 80~89, 2006 4 Hei Bing. correlative research on association rules data mining algorithm. 2001 5 Zhou Haofeng, Zhu Yangyong, Shi Baile. A mining algorithm for association rules based on interest measure Journal of Computer Research and Development, pages 450-457, 2002 6 Jiawei Han, MiCheline Kamber. Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques. China Machine Press, 2001 7 Sun Zhenming, An Weiguang, Zhang Hui, Jiang Xingwei Improved algorithm for AHP based on data mining for spacecraft data analysis. Journal of Harbin Engineering University, pages 704~708, 2006 8 Sun Zhenmin, An Weiguang, Zhang Hui. Research on causal adjustment technology in applying to sp acecraft data prediction. Journal of Astronautics, pages 1324~1327 2006   Forecasting Time Horizon\(Day Battery voltage\(volt Battery voltage\(volt Forecasting Time Horizon\(Day Raw Data 000ü\000 Projected Trend Prediction Intervals Raw Data 000ü\000 Projected Trend Prediction Intervals 
33 
33 


References attribute In this paper we discussed how to model domain knowledge with a semantic network and apply it to association rule analysis Our semantic association rule analysis can generate semantically valid hypothesis and assess data quality We successfully applied our method to a public health dataset and obtained promising results This work is funded by National Science Foundation grant CNS 0851984 and Department of Homeland Security grant 2009-ST-061-C10001  Agra w al R Mannila H  Srik an t R T oiv o nen H and Verkamo A I Fast Discovery of Association Rules In Advances in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining U M Fayyad et al Eds AAAI press 1996  Ba y ardo R J a nd Agra w al R Mining the Most Interesting Rules In Proceedings of the Fifth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining San Diego CA United States August 15 18 1999  Chen P  V erma R  Meininger J C a nd Chan W 2008 Semantic analysis of association rules In Proceedings of the International FLAIRS Conference FL USA 2008  Eissa M Meininger J C Nguy en T a nd Chan W The Relationship of Ambulatory Blood Pressure to Physical Activity in a TriEthnic Population of Obese and Nonobese Adolescents American Journal of Hypertension Volume 20 Issue 2 Pages 140-147  Gupta N K Mueller W H Chan W and Meininger J C Is Obesity Associated with Poor Sleep Quality in Adolescents American Journal of Human Biology  the O\003cial Journal of the Human Biology Council 14\(6 2002 7 7 Related Work 8 Conclusion Acknowledgments BBC shows that the attributes in the dataset are semantically self-closed since not many hypothesis can be generated which indicates that the Heartfelt study was very carefully designed Association rule mining has been proved to be very useful in many applications One major obstacle in practice is how to identify correct interesting user-speci\223c rules from a huge number of redundant wrong or trivial rules Recently association rule post-processing has become a very active research area Based on whether external knowledge sources are used we can divide the existing methods into objective measure based methods and knowledge based methods Objective measure based methods do not require any domain information besides the rule set itself and can be used by both domain experts and novice users However lack of domain knowledge makes it impossible to detect wrong rules that are just coincidence and do not 215make sense\216 and lack of user input results in presenting many rules already known by users Based on the analysis tasks this type of methods can be further divided into 1 Metric-based rule evaluation This type of approaches use metrics to evaluate the signi\223cance or interestingness of an association rule such as lift statistical h yp o thesis tests 18 U nin teresting rules will be discarded However as shown in eac h metric has di\002eren t prop erties and may be useful only for some speci\223c domains and applications and choosing the right metric is often di\003cult 2 Rule summarization and generalization To reduce the number of rules that need manual analysis rules are analyzed with their context These methods investigate relations among rules in order to present users a concise rule set 3 Rule ranking a nd 20 discussed ho w to extract top-k signi\223cant rules with low redundancy Q 


 Han J W a ng J Lu Y  and Tzv etk o v P  Mining Top-K Frequent Closed Patterns without Minimum Support In Proceedings of the IEEE international Conference on Data Mining 2002  L iu B Zhao K Benkler J a nd Xiao W Rule Interestingness Analysis Using OLAP Operations In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Philadelphia PA 2006  Meininger J C Liehr P  Mueller W H Chan W Smith G L and Portman R J Stress-Induced Alterations of Blood Pressure and 24 h Ambulatory Blood Pressure in Adolescents Blood Pressure Monitoring 4\(3-4 1999  Meininger J C Liehr P  Chan W Smith G and Mueller W H Developmental Gender and Ethnic Group Di\002erences in Moods and Ambulatory Blood Pressure in Adolescents Annals of Behavioral Medicine a Publication of the Society of Behavioral Medicine 28 1 10-9  P a dmanabhan B a nd T uzhilin A  A BeliefDriven Method for Discovering Unexpected Patterns In Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 1998  P admanabhan B and T uzhilin A Small is Beautiful Discovering the Minimal Set of Unexpected Patterns In Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Boston Massachusetts 2000  Pipino L  Lee Y a nd W a ng R Data Qualit y Assessment Communications of the ACM April 2002  Quillian M R Seman tic Memory  Seman tic Information Processing M Minsky ed MIT Press 1968  Sahar S On Incorp o rating Sub jectiv e In terestingness Into the Mining Process In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Data Mining 2002  T a n P  N Kumar V  and Sriv a sta v a J Selecting the Right Interestingness Measure for Association Patterns In Proceedings of the 8th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining July 2002  Uni\223ed Medical Language System 2007 a v ailable at www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls  W ang K Jiang Y and Lakshmanan L V.S Mining Unexpected Rules by Pushing User Dynamics In Proceedings of the 9th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Washington D.C August 2003  W ebb G I Disco v ering Signi\223can t Rules In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Philadelphia PA,2006  Witten I H a nd F rank E Data Mining Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techniques 2nd edition Morgan Kaufmann San Francisco 2005  Xin D Cheng H  Y a n X a nd Han J Extracting Redundancy-Aware Top-k Patterns In Proceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Philadelphia PA USA 2006 8 BBB 


              


   


                        





