Fractal Study on Fault Syst em of Carboniferous in Junggar Basin Based on GIS Bo Li  Tingshan Zhang, Guangming Ding School of Resources And Environment, SWPU ChengDu, China  Corresponding author: libralibo@126.com Weiyuan Wang Naval University of Engineering, TianJin Campus TianJin, China 148093474@qq.com Yu Xiang College of Physical Science And Technology, HuaZhong Normal University WuHan, China Abstract Fault system is a significant evidence of tectonic movement during crust tectonic evolution and may play an more important role in oil-gas accumulation process than other tectonic types in sedimentary basin. Carboniferous surface faults 
in Junggar Basin developed well and varied in size and distribution. There are about 200 faults in Carboniferous, and 187 of them are thrust faults. Chaos-fractals theories have been widely investigated and great progress has been made in the past three decades. One of the important conception-fractal dimension had become a powerful tool for describing non-linearity dynamical system characteristic. The clustered objects in nature are often fractal and fault system distribution in space is inhomogeneous, always occurs in groups, so we can describe spatial distribution of faults from the point of fractal dimension Fractal dimension of fault system is a comprehensive factor associated with fault number, size, combination modes and 
dynamics mechanism, so it can evaluate the complexity of fault system quantitatively. The relationship between fault system and oil-gas accumulation is a focus and difficulty problem in petroleum geology, and fractal dimension is a new tool for describing fault distribution and predicting potential areas of hydrocarbon resources. Geographic Information System \(GIS\s a kind of technological system collecting, storing, managing computing, analyzing, displaying and describing the geospatial information supported by computer software and hardware. In the last 15-20 years, GIS have been increasingly used to address a wide variety of geoscience problems. Weights-of-evidence models 
use the theory of conditional probability to quantify spatial association between fractal dimension and oil-gas accumulation The weights of evidence are combined with the prior probability of occurrence of oil-gas accumulation using Bayes’rule in a loglinear form under an assumption of conditional independence of the dimension maps to derive posterior probability of occurrence of oil-gas accumulation. In this paper, we first vectorize the fault system in Carboniferous of Junggar Basin in GIS software and store it as polyline layer in Geodatabase of GIS to manage and analyze, then calculate the fractal dimension of three types which are box dimension, information dimension and cumulative length dimension using spatial functions of GIS, in the last use weights 
of-evidence model to calculate the correlation coefficients in GIS environment between oil-gas accumulation and three types of fractal dimension in order to quantity the importance of fault system Keywords- Geographic Information System; fault system; oilgas accumulation; fractal dimension; weights-of-evidence model I  I NTRODUCTION  As tectonic features remained by tectonic movements fault system was a prominent sign of contrary movements in tectonic evolution processes. In sedimentary basins, fault system played a more important role compared with other tectonic styles and because of its universality, periodicity inheritance, difference and gradation, there was a certain link 
between fault system and genesis, distribution of the oil and gas [1  T h e fa ul t sy st e m o f  Ca rb o n i f e r o u s i n  J ungga r  Basi n developed well and varied in distribution and size. There are more than 200 Carboniferous faults in Junggar Basin whose types are thrust fault, back fault and flushes fault. The characteristics of the fault development period are very obvious, and the different tectonic movements effected differently on the fault development and on the fault distribution [2 Th e rel a ti o n sh ip  b e tw een  f a u lts an d o ilg a s resource accumulation process was a hot and difficult problem in recent years, but there were few methods and techniques of studying faults inside the basin especially in semi-quantitative and quantitative ways 
Geographic Information System \(GIS\ a kind of technological system collecting, storing, managing, computing analyzing, displaying and describing the geospatial information supported by computer software and hardware [3 I n t h e l a st  15-20 years, GIS have been increasingly used to address a wide variety of geoscience problems. As one of the greatest natural science discoveries of the 20th century, chaos-fractals theories have been widely investigated and great progress has been made in the past three decades. Geology is one of the most active fields using fractal geometry to study relevant problems such as the processing technique for high-resolution 3-D seismic data [4 des c ri pt i o n of res e rv oi r  h e t e r o g e n e i t y   5    
DSS for oil exploration and development [6 d  s o on   Evidence weight method was first presented by Bonham-Carter and Agterberg which used statistical analysis pattern and took the Bayes conditional probabilities as base [7   I t reg a r d e d  every geology factor influenced oil and gas evolution as evidence and computed the weight of every evidence which defined its contribution to oil and gas prediction This paper tried to study the fault system of Carboniferous in Junggar Basin used fractal theory and weights-of-evidence model based on GIS. First it vectorized the fault system of Carboniferous in Junggar Basin and stored 


it as polyline layer in Geodatabase of GIS to manage and analyze, then calculated the fractal dimension of three types which are box dimension, information dimension and cumulative length dimension using spatial functions of GIS, in the last used weights-of-evidence model to compute the correlation coefficients in GIS environment between oil-gas accumulation and three types of fractal dimension in order to quantity the importance of fault system II  F RACTAL D IMENSION OF F AULT S YSTEM  A  Overview of Fractal Theory As one of the greatest natural science discoveries of the 20th century, fractal theories have been widely investigated and great progress has been made in the past three decades. One of the important conception which is fractal dimension had become a powerful tool for describing non-linearity dynamical system characteristic. As Feder points out, clustered objects in nature are often fractal. Clustering, or the aggregation of matter in space, defines the concentration or density of matter Because clustering is the dominant characteristic of the spatial arrangement of fault system, we can describe spatial distribution of faults from a fractal point. The value of fractal dimension to fault system is a comprehensive index which describes the number, size, combination and dynamical mechanism of fault system, so it can be considered as a quantitative factor to complexity of fault system [8  Gen e r a ll y   fault system had higher values of fractal dimension where fracture length was longer, rock fragmentation is bigger, more small and branch faults, high structure amplitude, intense structure deformation, otherwise, the fault system had lower value of fractal dimension B  Three Types and Formulas of Fractal Dimension in Fault System 1  Box dimension It is used widely because of its simple computational method [9 F i rst   t h e t o t a l st ud y ar ea i s di vi ded into even and continuous square grid with sides of r, then we record the number of squares containing fault lines partly or totally which is denoted as N\(r\. Second, repeat the step above with the square sides reduced to r/2, r/4, r/8  until approached zero and we can define the box dimension as D 1  D 1  lg    lg lim 0 r r N r  1 Because in practice we can only take finite sides of square, people usually draw fractal plot diagrams which the ordinate represents the number\(N\ and the abscissa represents the size of length\(r\ of square side and then get the box dimension from slope of lgN lgr line 2  Information dimension The chief weakness of counting number of not empty squares to calculate the fractal dimension is that the dimension does not reflect the nonuniformity of geometry objects because the square containing one fault is important as the square containing more than one fault. We number every square with i=1,2…n, and if the ith box has N i r faults falling into, the probability\(P i of faults falling into ith box is given by: P i N i r\/N\(r\here N\(r\ is total number of faults falling into all boxes. Last according to the information formula: I\(r  n i i i r P r P 1   lg   where n is the total number of boxes, and we can define the information dimension D 2 as follows  D 2  lg    lim 0 r r I r    2 3  Cumulative length dimension Compared with direction density and distribution of fault system, the analysis of length can obtain more information. On the basis of previous work there is a fractal relation between cumulative number of fault line and fault length as follows [10   M\(r\r D3 3 Where M\(r\ is the number of faults whose length is longer than r, D 3 is the cumulative length dimension, C is a constant C  Calculating Fractal Dimensions Based on GIS The advantages of GIS include its database manner of data management, its capability to overlay and integrate different spatial information, and its powerful tools and functions for image analysis, spatial analysis and modeling. So it is suitable for GIS to extract and manage the fault system and compute the fractal dimensions The overlay toolset in ArcGIS contains tools to combine erase, modify or update multiple feature classes to spatial features in a new feature class. New information is created when overlaying one set of features with another. There are six types of overlay operations; all involve joining two existing sets of features into a single set of features to identify spatial relationships between the input features. The intersect tool calculates the geometric intersection of any number of feature class and feature layers. The features or portion of features which are common to \(intersect\all inputs will be written to the output feature class The length of every fault line is stored as a basic field in layer of GIS geographical database automatically after vectorization, so we can compute the cumulative length dimension of fault system by using \(3  easily and the result is showed in Fig2\(c\ Calculating box dimension and information dimension of fault system took four steps. First, the total study area should be divided into squares with sides\(r\f 80km, then all square area layers overlaid with fault line layer by using intersect function of GIS and we can obtain a new layer as a result. Secondly, opening the attribute table of new layer, we record the number of squares which contain fault lines partly or totally and calculate the length of those lines. Third, repeat the steps above with the square sides changed to 40km\(r/2 20km\(r/4\, 10km\(r/8\ and 5km\(r/16\ Last drawing fractal plot diagrams which the ordinate represents the number\(N\ and information\(I\ of squares and the abscissa represents the size of length\(r\ of square side and then we can see there are obvious linear relationship in double logarithmic plots from Fig2a Fig2b, so we get three fractal dimensions: D 1 1.43, D 2 1.48 D 3 1.79 


  a\ Box dimesion diagram       c\umulative length dimension diagram       Figure 1  Three fractal plot diagrams of fault system  The value of fractal dimension to fault system is a comprehensive index which describes the number, size combination and dynamical mechanism of faults, so we can obtain different fractal dimension value in different place of study region. Because three fractal dimension values what we calculated above are just suitable for total research area, in order to better study the relationship between fractal dimension and oil-gas resources distribution in every place, we compute three fractal dimension values of every 80km side squares to interpolate three thematic maps of study area showed in Fig3 From Fig2 and Fig3  we can see that fractal dimension obtained by different methods are different in the same place and there is a good correlation between higher fractal dimension value and complexity of fault system. The areas which have higher three fractal dimension values lie in the middle and east region and those places also have maximum fault density and length  Figure 2  Three types of fractal dimension of Carboniferous fault system in Junggar Basin  III  U SING W EIGHTS OF E VIDENCE M ODEL TO C OMPUTE C ORRELATION C OEFFICIENTS A ND R ANK T HE I MPORTANCE OF F AULT A TTRIBUTES  The weights-of-evidence model’s principle and its explanation to evidence of geology factors are simple and it is easy to realize. Moreover, it can deal with areas which lose information. The difference between positive and negative weight of geology evidence show the importance of indicating oil-gas accumulation In oil and gas resource assessment, the spatial relationship between geology evidence and oil-gas resources distribution can be calculated from ratio of related regional area d P\(e j d\S\(d S\(e j  d   4 b\nformation dimension diagram      


Where d stands for appearances of oil-gas resources while e 1 e 2 e n stands for appearances of geology evidence, both d and e j are layers stored in GIS. A is area of total study region S\(d\ is total area of oil-gas resources while S\(e j is total area of e j   d stands for disappearance of oil-gas resources while  ej stands for disappearance of j evidence. If overlaying oilgas resources layers with j geology evidence layers, there are four results which are e j d  e j  d, e j  d and  e j  d, so we can define four corresponding conditional probabilities as follows P\(d e j e j d\S\(e j  P  d e j e j  d\S\(e j  P\(d  e j   e j d\S  e j  P  d  e j   e j  d\S  e j   The positive and negative weight of j geology evidence can be defined as W j  and W j   W j  ln P\(e j d\ P\(e j  d  W j  ln P  e j d\ P  e j  d The correlation coefficients between j geology evidence and oil-gas resources distribution is C j and can be given by   C j  W j  W j   In the terms of oil and gas resources assessment, the higher the value of Cj is, the closer the link is between the geology evidence and oil-gas resources appearance and the bigger contribution is to oil-gas exploration. So Cj can be used as an indicator showing importance of geology evidence To some extent the attributes of fault system affect and limit the spatial distribution of oil and gas resource, so they can be considered as the geology evidences. Every attribute of fault system plays a different role in hydrocarbon accumulation and we can use weights-of-evidence model to compute correlation coefficients and rank the importance of every fault attribute According to the weights-of-evidence model, we used overlay analysis between fault attribute layer and oil-gas resource layer based on GIS to get correlation coefficient of every fault attribute in Tab1. Take correlation coefficients of cumulative length dimension for an example, we use intersect function in GIS to obtain the intersection of oil-gas resource layer and cumulative length dimension layer of fault system showed in Fig4 and compute the correlation coefficient as follows W  ln P\(e d\ P\(e  d\n  300283  130180 4918  2922  W  ln P  e d\ P  e  d\n 300283  170103 4918  1996  0.3 C  W  W  0.6  Figure 3  Using intersect function in GIS to calculate the correlation coefficient of cumulative length dimension  From the result in Tab1 we can draw a conclusion that distribution of faults covers a small area but it is most important and most effective because the value of correlation coefficient is highest\(c=2.6\. Density, information dimension length and box dimension of fault system are in close relation with oil-gas accumulation while cumulative length dimension and connectivity of fault system have some relation with oilgas accumulation     TABLE I  C ORRELATION C OEFFICIENTS OF F AULT S YSTEM A TTRIBUTES OF C ARBONIFEROUS IN J UNGGAR B ASIN  Fault attributes W  W C= W  W Importance order Distribution 1.9 -0.7 2.6 1 Density 1.1 -0.9 1.9 2 Information dimension 0.7 0.9 1.6 3 Length 0.8 -0.7 1.5 4 Box dimension 0.6 0.8 1.4 5 Cumulative length 0.3 0.3 0.6 6 


dimension Connectivity 0.04 -0.1 0.14 7 IV  C ONCLUSIONS  There is a good correlation between higher fractal dimension value and complexity of fault system. Generally fault system had higher values of fractal dimension where fracture length was bigger, more small and branch faults, high structure amplitude, intense structure deformation. Otherwise the fault system had lower value of fractal dimension Fractal dimension obtained by different methods are different and have different meanings in the same place. In this paper we calculated the fractal dimension of three types which are box dimension, information dimension and cumulative length dimension using spatial functions of GIS,  in the last use weights-of-evidence model to calculate the correlation coefficients between oil-gas accumulation and three types of fractal dimension in order to quantity the importance of fault system According to the correlation coefficients calculated by weights-of-evidence model we can know that distribution of faults covers a small area but it is most important and most effective because the value of correlation coefficient is highest\(c=2.6\ensity, information dimension, length and box dimension of fault system are in close relation with oil-gas accumulation while cumulative length dimension and connectivity of fault system have some relation with oil-gas accumulation The advantages of GIS include its database manner of data management, its capability to overlay and integrate different spatial information, and its powerful tools and functions for image analysis, spatial analysis and modeling. Thus, it well suited for extracting, manipulating, and analyzing fault system information. In GIS software we can analyze and deal with fault system quickly and effectively using overlay functions of GIS spatial analysis R EFERENCES  1  J. Zhang, X. Chang, Petroleum Geology. Petroleum Industry Press August 2004 2  L. Zhou, C. Wang, D. Lei, B. Zhang, F. Yang, “Disturbution of Carboniferous surface fault in different tectonic movements in Junggar Basin,” Journal of Southwest Petroleum University \(Science Technology Edition\ Vol. 31, pp. 1-5, 2009 3  G. Tang, X. Yang, Spatial analysis by ArcGIS Geographic Information System.  Beijing: Science Press, 2006 4  Meng Qingwu et al, “Application of fractal theory in high resolution processing of seimic data,” Acta  Pe rtrolei Sinica, Vol 21\(2\ pp. 31-35 2000 5  Li Chunhua et al, “The application of fractal theory in description of interwell thin reservoirs, ”Acta Pertrolei Sinica,Vol 19\(4\. 26-29 1998 6  Guo Qianjie et al, “New methods for supporting decision making in pertoleum exploration and development fractal geometry and geostatistics, ” Acta  Pertrolei Sinica, 1998,Vol 19\(2\. 36-39 7  Bonham-Carter G F, Agterberg F P. “Weights of evidence modeling: A new approach to mapping mineral potential, statistical applications in the earth science.” Ottawa: Geological Survey of Canada,  pp. 1-21 8  Tan Kai-xuan, Xie Yan-shi, Zhao Zhi-zhong, Li Xiao-ming, Nonlinear dynamics of tectonic minerlization. Geology Press, 2003 9  Cui Lingzhou, Xiao Xuenian, Li Zhanbin, “GIS-based Approach for Measuring the Fractal Box Dimension of Watershed Topography Bulletin of Soil and Water Conservation,Vol. 24, pp. 38-40, 2004   H. Endres, T. Lohr, H. Trappe, R. Samiee, P. O. Thierer, C. M Krawczyk, D. C. Tanner, O. Oncken and P. A. Kukla, “Quantitative fracture prediction from seismic data,” Petroleum Geoscience, Vol. 14 2008,  pp. 369–377  


  


        


        


9 Appendix Fig 6: Forest Cover Types of the U.S. \(Source. USGS National Atlas of US Summary of Forest Cover Type Data Type Multivariate Abstract The forest cover type for 30 x 30 meter cells obtai ned from US Forest Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS\ data Data Characteristics The actual forest cover type for a given observatio n \(30 x 30 meter cell\ was determined from US Fores t Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS data Independe nt variables were derived from data originally obta ined from US Geological Survey \(USGS\ and USFS data. Data is in raw form \(not scaled\ and contains binary \(0 or 1 columns of data for qualitative independent variables \(wilderness areas and soil types Summary Statistics Number of instances observations 581012 Number of Attributes 54 Attribute breakdown 12 measures, but 54 columns of data \(10 quantitativ e variables, 4 binary wilderness areas and 40 binary soil type variables Missing Attribute Values None 43 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





