  Study of D ata Ming base d on Apriori Algorithm  Xi aojun Wang Zheji ang Sci-Tech University HangZhou, China wxj678@126.com   Abst ract 227According to the current characteristics of Internet users to search information, this article provides preprocessing steps and algorithms of log mining for non-registered and registered users. Focus on the study of the user's access pattern generated after preprocessing logs, and generated frequent access sets. It mainly studies the algorithm of web site users personalized information recommendation and compares current various algorithms about the personalized 
recommendation. As the amount of Internet users log is very large, and contains a lot of useless information, this article improves the existing Apriori al gorithm, by using the division and governance strategy to introduce the method of the Hash technology to complete the compressed candidate sets reducing the times of frequently scanning the database overcoming problems of the data mining algorithm of original association rules generating relatively large frequent sets, and needing repeatedly scanning the database  Keyword-Web Data Mining, Web Personalized Information Recommendation, association rules W ith the rapid development of the network information technology, the amount of information in the network is increasing, thereby the Internet emerges the phenomenon of 
Information Explosion". In this background, users may not get the information resources they need after spending a lot of time that is the phenomenon of "Information Trek s  produced. Therefore, by identifying the characteristics of different users' needs, for this reason the use of personalized service strategies and methods will solve this problem very well. The most important service in the intelligent personalized initiative information service is the personalized information recommendation. Resnick [5 fir s t proposed the definition of recommendation systems pointing out that recommendation systems is to recommend for users to realize personalized items". Schafer h a d a  deeper understanding of recommendation systems that 
recommending systems is a system that any providing a single recommendation result as the output or in a personalized way to guide users in the large capacity of optional items to find their own interested or useful items for themselves. Currently the combination of the Web log mining with the personalized information recommendation services has become an important research topic. While with the development of the network technology, the existing massive Internet users are available, and their browsing amount of information is also very large; the existing recommendation system is obviously not enough to process data in the speed aspect, so how to find an appropriate way to enable to more quickly recommend the information to Internet users seems to be specially important 
I  A PRI ORI ALGORITHM  A priori and others in 1993 designed a basic algorithm of Apriori[7 nd pro pos ed  a n i m por t an t m e th od  of m i n ing  association rules based on two-stage frequency sets ideas which is the most typical level algorithm and the most successful type of algorithm among Boolean association rules mining algorithms. Its core technology has been widely used in other types of Boolean association rules mining algorithms. The idea of the algorithm is [9, 10 If S  i s a frequent item set, as for any non-empty subset L of S through calculating the confidence degree, that is conf 
 support\(S\/support \(L\, and by conf 
002 miniconf \(the minimum confidence\ we can determine whether the rule of L  support \(ABCD\/support \(AB 002 miniconf \(the minimum confidence Then the rule of AB 003 CD is established, otherwise not For example: ABCD is a frequent item set, AB is a subset of it If confsupport \(ABCD\ / support \(AB\ miniconf minimum confidence 
003 S-L\ablished \(The rule certainly has the minimum support for S is the frequent item set For example: ABCD is a frequent item set, and AB is its subset If conf 
Then the ABCD rule is established, otherwise not valid Specific in the page dialogue, S is the frequent item set that is the page in S is the page often visited at the same time in a visit, while the last page in the visit sequence is always the purpose of users\222 visiting. Therefore, when using frequent item sets to generate the demanded rules, it is to mainly export rules of the pre-n-1 page of S to the last page if this rule meets the minimum confidence, store this rule into the model library. The basic idea of the Apriori algorithm of frequent sets is found that, each scan of the transaction database needs constructing a frequent set calculate the support of each candidate set, and then determine the frequent item set according to the pre-given minimum support. For example, the first scan obtains the candidate one item set, and then according to the minimum 
support determines the frequent one item set L 1 T o find the frequent 2 item set, taking the fact into account that any subset of frequent item sets has the minimum support, the Apriori algorithm uses L 1 
004 L 1 t o generate candidate sets 2010 2nd International Conference on Software Technology and Engineering\(ICSTE V2-400 C 9 78-1-4244-8666-3/10/$26.00      2010 IEEE 


  here 004 representing the join operation. C 2 consists of C 2 L1  two item sets. However, when |L 1 is large, then C 2 L1  becomes very large. Next, scan the transactions in the database, and calculate the support of each candidate set in C 2 to find their support not less than the minimum support of the frequent set L 2 And so on, before the k \(k 002 1\me of scanning, first it is to use the \(k-1\ time of scanning result i.e. frequent \(k-1\tem set L k-1 and the candidate k item set C k generated by the Apriori-gen function, then in the process of the k time of scanning determine the support of each element, find the frequent k item set L k The algorithm ends when the candidate k item set C k is empty. It can be found that in the process of calculating candidate item sets generating candidate sets as small as possible is very important to the implementation efficiency, because at the time of scanning the whole database it needs calculating the support of each item set in C k The larger candidate sets are the greater the cost of generating frequent sets is. Some experiments indicated that the initial scanning process has determined the cost of the entire implementation process candidate sets generated from scanning are larger than those item sets which are real frequent item sets. Therefore, the generation of the initial candidate sets, especially of the frequent two item set, is the key to improve the association rules mining efficiency. Another factor associated with the implementation performance is the number of data which need scanning in the process of finding frequent item sets General algorithm is that during each iteration it needs scanning once the database of all transactions. To note that with the increase of k value, not only the element of the frequent k item set reduces, also transactions including any frequent k item set becomes less and less. At this time, still scanning the entire database to calculate the support will be a great waste of time and space. Therefore, reducing the number of transactions needed scanning and the number of items in each transaction is an effective way to improve the mining efficiency II  T HE IMPROVEMENT OF THE A PRIORI ALGORITHM  It can be seen from the idea of the Apriori algorithm that when there is a considerable number of frequent item sets Apriori will generate a large number of candidate sets, and may have to repeatedly scan the database, which certainly reduces the efficiency of the algorithm; the algorithm proposed in this article is through the division and governance strategy to introduce the hash technology to improve the generation of frequent item sets, and uses the data to search the language to realize the association rule mining algorithm. To obtain users\222 frequent access path, if the maximum forward reference of users\222 each visit is very long, then it needs generating a number of k item sets generating a large number of candidate item sets, each time it needs several repeated scanning of the same transaction database; we have proposed a strategy for improvement. For the sake of convenient discussion, here each item in I uses its item number to replace. Same as the previous, name the set of all frequent k item sets as Lk, such as L1 for the set of all frequent one item sets. Here we assume that transactions in the transaction database and items of any item sets appearing in the algorithm are all arranged in accordance with the item number sequence. In the later algorithm, we easily see that as long as making sure at the beginning that is items in the two item set are in order, and then the implementation of the algorithm will automatically make ensure that any item set is also in order Through the use of the hash technology it constructs a very small C 2 to generate smaller L 2 to export C 3 If C 2 is very large, the database can not effectively prune. After this step, the size of L i decreases rapidly as the value of i increases, thus it results in really small L i+1 then the corresponding cost is much less, greatly improving the proceeding efficiency of the entire process The advantage of the Hash table is to avoid the process of repeated searching, by the method of addressing to directly find the data which is needed; usually through the design of a hash function, which is a mapping, as long as it makes the hash function value obtained from any keyword be within the allowable scope of the table length.  Basic idea is as follows Same as the Apriori idea, first of all generate candidate one item set  C l  The algorithm simply scans the transactions database, and count for each item Set the minimum transaction support number \(i.e min_support\, which can be calculated by the storage procedure, and can also be specified by the user himself Determine the L 1 set of frequent one item sets, as the following table. Any transaction in the frequent item set L 1  is larger than or equal to the minimum support degree Generate candidate 2 item sets. The algorithm uses L 1 004 L 1 to generate the candidate item set C 2 Each item set in C 2 is to make a connection with two frequent item sets belonging to L 1 to generate  Scan the transactions database, calculate the support number of each candidate item set in C 2 and store C 2 with a temporary table Select transactions of which each transaction is not less than the minimum support degree, thus to determine the frequent two item set L 2 and calculate the corresponding hash function of its transaction and the combination of item number 2 Generate three item candidate set C 3 use the characteristics of the Apriori algorithm, adopt the pruning technique, and remove all candidate item sets whose subsets are not frequent item sets, thus greatly reduce the size of 3-item candidate sets, to improve the efficiency for generating frequent item sets L 3  Generate frequent three item set L 3 and calculate the support number of each transaction The circulation continues like this, continues to generate candidate sets, and from this generates frequent item sets until the candidate item is empty The main purpose of using the Hash Algorithm is to generate the next candidate set by filtering out the item sets which are not needed. When scanning the database to calculate the support degree of the candidate k item set, it is to use the hash technology to pre-store the candidate \(k +1 


  item set, that is, after through certain cutting, hash all possible \(k +1\ item set in a hash table. Each hash unit in the Hash table consists of one number, which represents so far the number of item sets hashed to this unit. The bit vector is constructed based on the Hash table; if the number of the corresponding number in the Hash table is larger than or equal to s, then the corresponding bit value is set to be 1 otherwise 0 III  E XPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS  Figure 1 uses the example to analyze the Apriori algorithm. In the first iteration, the Apriori algorithm simply scans all the transactions, calculate the times appearing of each item, and obtain the candidate one item set of C l it assumes that the minimum support degree of transactions is 2, then the frequent one item set L 1 is constituted by the candidate one item set which meets the minimum support degree. The Apriori algorithm uses L 1 004 L 1 to generate the candidate set C 2 Next, scan 10 transactions in the database and calculate the support degree of each candidate set in C2 Then, based on the support degree of each candidate two item set in C 2 can determine the frequent 2 item set L2. The candidate set C 3 is produced by L 2 the process as follows first identify two frequent 2 item sets of {AB} and {AC} in L2 which are the same with the first project. Then, Apriori check the two item set {BC} composed by the previous two projects of {AB} and {AC} whether constitutes a frequent two item set. As {BC} itself is a frequent two item set hence all subsets that can get {ABC} are frequent, then ABC} becomes a candidate three item set. Similarly {ABE is also a candidate three item set. This is using the above mentioned nature of Apriori to precede the connecting and pruning process. The candidate four item set cannot be constructed from L3, at this time the algorithm to be terminated Seen from the process of this algorithm, it is very important to produce candidate set Ci as small as possible because in the process of scanning the entire database it needs to calculate the support degree of each project in Ci  C2 User ID         Items 202.199.137.6    ABE 202.199.137.6    ABD 202.199.137.6    BD 202.199.137.6    BC 202.199.137.6    ABC 202.199.137.6    ABCE 202.199.137.6    AC 202.199.137.6    BC 202.199.137.6    ABF 202.199.137.6    AC Items   Sup A       7 B       8 C       6 D       2 E       2 F       1 Scan D C1 Items   Sup A       7 B       8 C       6 D       2 E       2 L1 Item s AB AC AD AE BC BD BE CD CE DE Items   Sup AB      5 BC      4 AD      1 AE      2 BC      4 BD      2 BE      2 CD      0 CE      1 DE      0 Scan D C2 Items   Sup AB      5 AC      4 AE      2 BC      4 BD      2 BE      2 L2 C3 Item s ABC ABE Scan D Items   Sup ABC     2 ABE     2 C3 Item s   Sup ABC     2 ABE     2 L3  Figure 1  The analysis of the Apriori algorithm Figure 2 shows an example of the specific application of the hash thinking. The purpose of constructing the hash table is to compress candidate sets by the hashing technique and then the construction method of the hash table to some extent determines the hashing results. In this paper, it adopts the method of MVR to construct hash functions: \(x * factor y\mod hashtblsize. Obviously, the two uncertain parameters: the table length of the hash table and the factor coefficient are important elements to determine the hashing effects. For, if the table length of the hash table is smaller then the hash result is that each bucket in the hash table has a number of candidate sets; if the count of each bucket is larger than the minimum support degree, then the hash table can not filter out any item; then it does not have any compression and filter effect, also the process of the construction consumes time. While the factor coefficient is an uncertain element, for example, we take x = 3, y = 2 when hashtblsize = 10, no matter which of 10,20,30 the factor takes, the results are the same; however, when hashtblsize = 20 the results will be different. Through experiments on the same test sets, under the condition of the same minimum support degree and different lengths of tables, using relevant results produced by the algorithm to analyze, comparing results, we can get, when the hash table length is longer, the effect of hashing is better. And we have verified this conclusion: the generation of initial candidate set, especially the frequent two item set, is the key to improve the mining efficiency of association rules. By use of the Hash table to effectively form frequent two item set and increase the efficiency of the algorithm  Figure 2  the hash technology causes frequent sets IV  C ONCLUSION  In view of the status that the present classic algorithm of association rules generating larger amount of candidate sets and more data amounts needed to be scanned, using the hash technology and the method of combining division with conquest, improving the existing Apriori algorithm, to achieve the purpose of increasing mining efficiency and raising the speed of appearing the recommended page 


  R EFERENCE   1  Hai-Tao Xiao, etc. Research on Web-based Data Mining Apriori Algorithm and Optimization Algorithms    E duc ation 2006  1    2  J Han.M Kamber Data Mining Concepts and Techniques 2001 3  Ouyang River. Based on Association Rule Algorithm Improvement Research " 2006 \(21 4  Yao-chang proposed. Research of the Application on Customer Analysis of an Association Rules Mining Method 2008 \(4   5  Zhang Ling, An Improved Algorithm Based on Apriori and IUA 2009 \(1 6  Ma yu nv. An improved Apriori Algorithm based on mining association rule," 2004 \(4 7  Chen Yao. An Improved Apriori Algorithm Based on Graph 2008 7 8  UNESCO. Medical Data Mining Based on Association Rules, 1996 9  SHENG Qinghong, ZHANG Jianqing, XIAO Hui. A New Approach for Segmentation of Forest Image Based on the Color and Texture [J  GEOMATICS AND INFORMATION SCIENCE OF WUHAN UNIVERSITY. 2008.33\(3\6-309  10  Rechard Davide, Optimization of Apriori Algorithm in Mining Association Rules " 2009 \(6  


Lemma 2 The time complexity of HPAR algorithm is O\(|FT| + |Y|*\(|FT|+\(l 2 2 logl 2 2 where FT is the number of records in fact table Y is the number of items in Y and l 2 is the maximum number of frequent 2-itemsets Proof The time complexity estimated here is based on the number of operations required on itemsets.  To find all frequent 1-itemsets in line one, it takes O\(|FT operations On line two, there are at most Y number of frequent target items.  For each of these items, the following operations are executed.  To find frequent 2-itemsets, it is line 2.2 that calculating cross-table itemsets will require most operations It takes O\(|FT operations to scan the fact table again Assuming the maximum number of frequent 2-itemset is l 2  step 2.4 and step 2.5.6 perform sorting of these frequent 2itemsets repeatedly.  It would require O l 2 2 logl 2 2 operations  In total, the estimated operation is O\(|FT Y|*\(|FT|+\(l 2 2 logl 2 2 For joining-then-mining approach, a straight forward calculation of predictive association rule is to join the fact table with all dimension tables and then perform Apriori algorithm.  Let JT = FT DT 1  DT n be the joined table.  If we apply same strategy to reduce the confidence of an association rule, then time complexity can be estimated similarly Lemma 3 The time complexity of joining-then-hiding approach is O\(|JT| + |Y|*\(|JT|+\(l 2 2 logl 2 2 where JT is the number of records in fact table Y is the number of items in Y and l 2 is the maximum number of frequent 2itemsets Proof The proof is similar to lemma 2 It can be observed that the joined table JT is much bigger than the fact table FT as JT contains attributes from all dimension tables.  The operations on joined table will be much more than operations on fact table along.  In addition the cost of joining and memory space to save the joined table must be considered VI C ONCLUSION In this work, we have studied the problem of hiding sets of predictive association rules on multiple tables of star schema.  We propose a novel technique addressing two issues Ö efficient calculation of itemsets and reduction of rule confidence. Examples illustrating the proposed approach are shown.  Analyses are given and compared to joined table approach.  Currently we have implemented the proposed technique on single table and experimenting on multiple tables.  We will continue to examine and improve the various side effects of the proposed approach.  We will also consider utilizing better data structures to reduce database scanning for better efficiency A CKNOWLEDGMENT This work was supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, under grant NSC-98-2221-E-390-030 R EFERENCES 1 R. A g r a w a l  T   I m iel ins k i a n d A  S w am i  M i n ing A s s o cia tio n  Rul e s  between Sets of Items in Large Databasesé, Proceedings of ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, 207 216, 1993 2 R. A g r a w a l and R S r i k a n t   F ast A l go r i thm s f o r M i n i ng A sso ciat io n  Rules in Large Databasesé, Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, VLDB, 487-499, 1994 3 E  Da s s e ni V Very k i os  A  E l m a ga rm i d and E  B e rti n o, çHi di n g  Association Rules by Using Confidence and Supporté in Proceedings of 4th Information Hiding Workshop, 369-383, Pittsburgh, PA, 2001 4 L  D e has pe an d L  De Rae dt M in i n g  A s s o ciatio n R u l e s in Mul t i pl e  Relationsé, Proceedings of the 7th International Workshop on Inductive Logic Programming, 12 5Ö132. 1997 5 F  G i anno t t i  L  V  S   L a ks hm a n a n A  Mo nr e a l e D  P e dr e s chi, a n d H   Wang, çPrivacy-preserving Mining of Association Rules from Outsourcing Transaction Databasesé, position paper in Workshop on Security and Privacy in Cloud Computing, in conjunction with the International Conference on Computers, Privacy and Data Protection January, 2010 6 J F G u o  W  F  Bi an  an d J  L i  M ul tir e l a tio n a l A s s o ciatio n Mi ni ng  with Guidance of Useré, Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery, 704-709 2007 7 V  C  J e n s en N S o p a r k a r  F r e q u en t I t em s e t C o u n t i n g A c r o s s  Multiple Tablesé, Proceedings of the 4th Pacific-Asia Conference of Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, Current Issues and New Applications, 49 61, 2000 8 I Mo ll oy N   L i and T  L i  O n the  I n S e cur ity and \(I m  P r actic al ity  of Outsourcing Precise Association Rule Miningé, Proceedings of International Conference on Data Mining, 2009 9 K  K  N g  W C  Fu  K Wa n g    M i n i n g As s o c i a t i o n  R u l e s f r o m S t a r s    Proceedings of the 2002 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, 322 329, 2002 10 S. Ni j sse n a n d J. K o k   F ast e r Asso ci a t i o n R u l e s fo r M u l t i p l e  Relationsé, Proceedings of the 17th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 891 896, 2001  S Oli vei ra  O Z a ia n e  A lg ori t h m s for B a la nc in g Pri vac y a n d Knowledge Discovery in Association Rule Miningé, Proceedings of 7th International Database Engineering and Applications Symposium Hong Kong, July 2003 12 L  Q i u, Y  L i, X  W u  P ro te cting B u s ine s s  I n te l l i ge nce and Cus to m e r  Privacy while Outsourcing Data Mining Tasksé, Knowledge and Information Systems, Vol. 17, 1, 99-120, 2008  V Ver y k i o s  A  E l m a ga rm id E  B e rti n o, Y Sa y g i n an d E  Da s s e ni   Association Rules Hidingé, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Vol. 16, No. 4, 434-447, April 2004  S L  W a n g  D Pat e l A  J a fa ri  a nd T P Hon g, çHi di n g  C o lla b o ra ti ve Recommendation Association Ruleé, Applied Intelligence, Volume 27, No. 1, 67-77, August 2007  S  L  W a n g  T Z L a i  T P  Hon g, and Y L  W u  Hid in g C o lla b o ra t i ve Recommendation Association Rules on Horizontally Partitioned Dataé, Intelligent Data Analysis, Vol. 14, No. 1, January 2010, 47 67 16 W  K  W o ng D  W  C h e ung  E  H u ng  B K a o  a n d N   Mam o u l i s   Security in Outsourcing of Association Rule Miningé, Proceedings of International Conference on Very Large Data Bases, 2007 17 L  J  X u K  L  X i e   A No v e l  A l g o r ithm f o r F r e que nt I t e m s e t Min ing  in Data Warehousesé, Journal of Zhejang University Science A, 7\(2 216-224, 2006 1302 2010 10th International Conference on Inte lligent Systems Design and Applications 


For each application there would a set of administrators and end users. Hence a role based access to the database is also being studied and implemented. We are currently working towards making Healthcare, Education and Shopping modules more ëintelligentí by making them ContextAware  III  CONCLUSION  Musafir was targeted towards Healthcare, Retail, Travel Education /Content Management Business Groups and its Users. The application provides \(a\ervasive learning access through videos and On-Demand Education \(b Empowers Online Shopping and Business On-the-Move \(c Real Time and Pervasive Primary Health Care Service \(d Context aware Travel Solution  IV  REFERENCES 1  G Subrahmanya VRK Rao, Jinka Parthasarathi, S. Karthik and GVN Appa Rao, ìImplementation of Virtulization Oriented Architecture ñ A Healthcare Case Studyî. IT Revolutions 2008, LNICST 11 proceedings, Springer 2  G Subrahmanya VRK Rao,Karthik Sundararaman,Jinka Parthasarathi, Dhatri ñ A Pervasive Cloud Initiative for Primary Healthcare Services ñ Proceedings of IEEE-ICIN 2010, Berlin 3  Cheverst, K., Davies, N., Mitchell, K., Friday, A., Efstratiou C.: Developing a contextaware electronic tourist guide: some issues and experiences. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems \(The Hague, The Netherlands, April 01 - 06, 2000\. CHI '00 ACM Press. \(2002 4  Masaki Matsudaira, Kyoko Hoshikawa, Kohei Taki ìContext Awareness and Its Applicationsî, Oki Technical Review April 2008/Issue 212 Vol.75 No.1,94-97                    5  Donghai Guan, Weiwei Yuan, Seong Jin Cho, Andrey Gavrilov, Young-Koo Lee, and Sungyoung Lee* ìDevising a Context Selection-Based Reasoning Engine for ContextAware Ubiquitous Computing Middlewareî UIC 2007 LNCS 4611, pp. 849ñ857, 2007 6  Dey, A.K., Abowd, G.D., Salber, D.: A Conceptual Framework and a Toolkit for Supporting  the Rapid Prototyping of Context-Aware Applications. J. of HumanComputer Interaction \(HCI\ 16, 97ñ166 \(2001 7  Hong, J.I., Landay, J.A.: An Infrastructure Approach to Context-Aware Computing. J. Human-Computer Interaction HCI\, London, UK, 287ñ303 \(2001 8  Shafer, S.A.N., Brumitt, B., Cadiz,J.J.: Interaction Issues in Context-Aware Interactive Environments. J. HumanComputer Interaction \(HCI\, London, UK, 363ñ378 \(2001 9  Zijian Zheng, Ron Kohavi, Llew Mason, ìReal world performance of association rule algorithms  Proceedings of the seventh ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining  San Francisco California, Pages: 401 ñ 406,Year of Publication: 2001,ISBN:1-58113-391-X 10  N. Eagle, A. Pentland, and D. Lazer \(2009\, "Inferring Social Network Structure using Mobile Phone Data Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 106\(36 pp. 15274-15278 11  http://mobilepit.com/10/how-to-get-imei-number-in-j2mejavame.html 12  http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/examples/d irections-simple.html 13  http://weather.weatherbug.com/desktop- weather/api.html 14  Christof Paar, Jan Pelzl, "The Advanced Encryption Standard", Chapter 4 of "Understanding Cryptography, A Textbook for Students and Practitioners". Springer, 2009  
96 


        


        


9 Appendix Fig 6: Forest Cover Types of the U.S. \(Source. USGS National Atlas of US Summary of Forest Cover Type Data Type Multivariate Abstract The forest cover type for 30 x 30 meter cells obtai ned from US Forest Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS\ data Data Characteristics The actual forest cover type for a given observatio n \(30 x 30 meter cell\ was determined from US Fores t Service \(USFS\ Region 2 Resource Information System RIS data Independe nt variables were derived from data originally obta ined from US Geological Survey \(USGS\ and USFS data. Data is in raw form \(not scaled\ and contains binary \(0 or 1 columns of data for qualitative independent variables \(wilderness areas and soil types Summary Statistics Number of instances observations 581012 Number of Attributes 54 Attribute breakdown 12 measures, but 54 columns of data \(10 quantitativ e variables, 4 binary wilderness areas and 40 binary soil type variables Missing Attribute Values None 43 


   C4.2 Open GL has excellent documentation that could help the developer learn the platform with ease C4.3 Developer has very little ex perience in working with Open GL platform  For our case study, alternative B i.e. Adobe Director was the most favorable alternative amongst all the three. It catered to the reusability criteria quite well and aimed at meeting most of the desired operational requirements for the system   6. CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK  The main contribution of this paper is to develop an approach for evaluating performance scores in MultiCriteria decision making using an intelligent computational argumentation network. The evaluation process requires us to identify performance scores in multi criteria decision making which are not obtained objectively and quantify the same by providing a strong rationale. In this way, deeper analysis can be achieved in reducing the uncertainty problem involved in Multi Criteria decision paradigm. As a part of our future work we plan on conducting a large scale empirical analysis of the argumentation system to validate its effectiveness   REFERENCES  1  L  P Am g o u d  U sin g  A r g u men ts f o r mak i n g an d  ex p lain in g  decisions Artificial Intelligence 173 413-436, \(2009 2 A  Boch m a n   C ollectiv e A r g u men tatio n    Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Monotonic Reasoning 2002 3 G  R Bu y u k o zk an  Ev alu a tio n o f sof tware d e v e lo p m en t  projects using a fuzzy multi-criteria decision approach Mathematics and Computers in Simualtion 77 464-475, \(2008 4 M T  Chen   F u zzy MCD M A p p r o ach t o Selec t Serv ice  Provider The IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy 2003 5 J. Con k li n  an d  M. Beg e m a n   gIBIS: A Hypertext Tool for Exploratory Policy Discussion Transactions on Office Information Systems 6\(4\: 303  331, \(1988 6 B P  Duarte D e v elo p in g a p r o jec ts ev alu a tio n sy ste m based on multiple attribute value theroy Computer Operations Research 33 1488-1504, \(2006 7 E G  Fo rm an  T h e  A n a l y t ic Hier a rch y P r o cess A n  Exposition OR CHRONICLE 1999 8 M. L ease  an d J L  L i v e l y  Using an Issue Based Hypertext System to Capture Software LifeCycle Process Hypermedia  2\(1\, pp. 34  45, \(1990 9  P e id e L i u   E valu a tio n Mo d e l o f Custo m e r Satis f a c tio n o f  B2CE Commerce Based on Combin ation of Linguistic Variables and Fuzzy Triangular Numbers Eight ACIS International Conference on Software Engin eering, Artificial Intelligence Networking and Parallel Distributed Computing, \(pp 450-454 2007  10  X  F L i u   M an ag e m en t o f an In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  Network for a Web-Based Collaborative Engineering Design Environment Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems,\(CTS 2007\, Orlando, Florida May 21-25, 2007 11 X. F L i u   A n In ternet Ba se d In tellig e n t A r g u m e n tatio n  System for Collaborative Engineering Design Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems pp. 318-325\. Las Vegas, Nevada 2006 12 T  M A sub jec tiv e assess m e n t o f altern ativ e m ission  architectures for the human exploration of Mars at NASA using multicriteria decision making Computer and Operations Research 1147-1164, \(June 2004 13 A  N Mo n ireh  F u zzy De cisio n Ma k i n g b a se d o n  Relationship Analysis between Criteria Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society 2005 14 N  P a p a d ias HERMES Su p p o rti n g A r g u m e n tative  Discourse in Multi Agent Decision Making Proceedings of the 15th National Conference on Artifical Intelligence \(AAAI-98  pp. 827-832\dison, WI: AAAI/MIT Press,  \(1998a 15  E. B T riantaph y llo u   T h e Im p act o f  Ag g r e g atin g Ben e f i t  and Cost Criteria in Four MCDA Methods IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, Vol 52, No 2 May 2005 16 S  H T s a u r T h e Ev alu a tio n o f airlin e se rv ice q u a lity b y  fuzzy MCDM Tourism Management 107-115, \(2002 1 T  D W a n g  Develo p in g a f u zz y  T O P S IS app r o ach  b a sed  on subjective weights and objective weights Expert Systems with Applications 8980-8985, \(2009 18 L  A  Zadeh  F u z z y Sets   Information and Control 8  338-353, \(1965  152 


                        





